                               SEVEN DAYS
                        BY MARY ROBERTS RINEHART
               _Author of “The Circular Staircase,” etc._




                                   I.


WHEN the dreadful thing occurred that night, every one turned on me. The
injustice of it hurt me most. They said _I_ got up the dinner, that _I_
asked them all to give up other engagements and come, that _I_ promised
all kinds of jollification, if they would come; and then when they did
come and got in the papers, and every one—but ourselves—laughed
himself black in the face, they turned on _me_! _I_, who suffered ten
times to their one! I shall never forget what Dallas Brown said to me,
standing with a coal shovel in one hand and a—well, perhaps it would be
better to tell it all in the order it happened.

It began with Jimmy Wilson and a conspiracy, was helped along by a
foot-long piece of red paper and a Japanese butler, and it enmeshed and
mixed up generally ten respectable members of society and a policeman.
Incidentally, it involved a pearl collar and a box of soap, which sounds
incongruous, doesn’t it?

The trouble was, I think, that no one took Jim seriously. His ambition
in life was to be taken seriously, but people steadily refused to. His
art was a huge joke—except to himself. If he asked people to dinner,
every one expected a frolic. When he married Bella Knowles, people
chuckled at the wedding, and considered it the wildest prank of Jimmy’s
career, although Jim himself seemed to take it awfully hard.

It is a great misfortune to be stout, especially for a man. Jim was
rotund and looked shorter than he really was, and as all the lines of
his face, or what should have been lines, were really dimples, his face
was about as flexible and full of expression as a pillow in a tight
cover. The angrier he got the funnier he looked, and when he was raging,
and his neck swelled up over his collar and got red, he was entrancing.
And everybody liked him, and borrowed money from him, and laughed at his
pictures (he has one in the Hargrave gallery in London now, so people
buy them instead), and smoked his cigarettes, and tried to steal his
Jap. The whole story hinges on the Jap.

Well, on the anniversary of the day Bella left him—— (Yes, Bella left.
She was terribly intense, and it got on her nerves finally to have
everybody chuckle when they asked for her husband. They would say,
“Hello, Bella! How’s Bubbles? Still banting?” And Bella would try to
laugh and say, “He swears his tailor says his waist is smaller, but if
it is he must be growing hollow in the back.” But she got tired of it at
last.) Well, on the second anniversary of Bella’s departure, Jimmy was
feeling pretty glum, and I am very fond of Jim. The divorce had just
gone through, and Bella had taken her maiden name again and had an
operation for appendicitis. We heard afterwards that they didn’t find
any appendix, and that the one they showed her in a glass jar _was not
hers_! But if Bella ever suspected, she didn’t say. Whether the appendix
was anonymous or not, she got box after box of flowers that were, and of
course every one knew it was Jim who sent them.

To go back to the anniversary, I went into Rothberg’s to see the
collection of antique furniture—mother was looking for a sideboard for
father’s birthday in March—and I met Jimmy there, boring into a
worm-hole in a seventeenth-century bed-post with the end of a match, and
looking his nearest approach to sad. When he saw me he came over.

“I’m blue to-day, Kit,” he said, after we had shaken hands. “Come and
help me dig bait, and then let’s go fishing. If there’s a worm in every
hole in that bed-post, we could go into the fish business. It’s a good
business.”

“Better than painting?” I asked. But he ignored my gibe and swelled up
alarmingly in order to sigh.

“This is the worst day of the year for me,” he affirmed, staring
straight ahead, “and the longest. Look at that crazy clock over there.
If you want to see your life passing away, if you want to see the steps
by which you are marching to eternity, watch that clock marking time.
Look at that infernal hand staying quiet for sixty seconds and then
jumping forward to catch up with the procession. Ugh!”

“See here, Jim,” I said, leaning forward, “you’re not well. You can’t go
through the rest of the day like this. I know what you’ll do: you are
going home to play Grieg on the pianola, and you won’t eat any dinner.”
He looked guilty.

“Not Grieg,” he protested feebly. “Beethoven.”

“You’re not going to do either,” I said with firmness. “You are going
right home to unpack those new draperies that Harry Bayles sent you from
Shanghai, and you are going to order dinner for eight—that will be two
tables of bridge. And you are not going to touch the pianola.”

That was my entire share in the affair, and to say, as some of them did
afterwards, that I brought it on them—well, it was downright malicious.

I really put myself out a lot. I took the Mercer girls myself in the
electric cab father gave me for Christmas, because their brougham was in
use, and the chauffeur had been gone for twenty-four hours with the
touring-car. They had telephoned the hospitals and police stations, and
they were afraid there had been an awful smash. (They could easily have
replaced Bartlett, but it takes so long to get new parts for those
foreign cars.)

The Dallas Browns walked; they lived in the next block. And they brought
with them a man named Harbison, that no one knew. Anne said he would be
great sport, because he was terribly serious, and had the most
exaggerated ideas of society, and loathed extravagance, and built
bridges or something. She had put away her cigarettes since he had been
with them—he and Dallas had been college friends—and the only chance
she had to smoke was when she was getting her hair done. And she had
singed quite a lot off—a burnt offering, she said.

Jim had a house well uptown, and it stood just enough apart from the
other houses to be entirely maddening, later. It was a three-story
affair, with a basement kitchen and servants’ dining-room. Then, of
course, there were cellars, as we found out afterwards. On the first
floor there was a large square hall, a small, formal reception-room,
behind it a big living-room, then a den, and back of all a Georgian
dining-room, with low windows, high above the ground. On the top floor
Jim had a studio, like every other one I ever saw,—perhaps a little
mussier. Jim was really a grind at his painting, and there were
cigarette ashes and palette knives and buffalo rugs and shields
everywhere. It is strange, but when I think of that terrible house, I
always see the halls, enormous, covered with heavy rugs, and stairs that
would have taken six housemaids to keep in proper condition. I dream
about those stairs, stretching above me in a Jacob’s ladder of shining
wood and Persian carpets, going up, up, clear to the roof.

We all arrived about the same time, and Anne Brown and I went upstairs
together to take off our wraps in what had been Bella’s dressing-room.
It was Anne who noticed the violets.

“Look at that!” she nudged me, when the maid was examining her wrap
before she laid it down. “What did I tell you, Kit? He’s still quite mad
about her.”

Jim had painted Bella’s portrait while they were going up the Nile on
their wedding trip. It looked quite like her, if you stood well off in
the middle of the room, and if the light came from the right. And just
beneath, in a silver vase, was a bunch of violets. I think it proper to
emphasize Jim’s fondness for his divorced wife, in view of what was
coming. Even Bella herself said afterwards that I had certainly done the
best I could under the circumstances, and for Anne Brown to talk the way
she did—saying I had always been crazy about Jimmy, and that she
believed I had known all along that his Aunt was coming—for Anne to
talk like that was sheer idiocy. Oh yes, there was an Aunt. The Jap
started the trouble, and Aunt Selina carried it along.

We all met downstairs in the living-room, quite informally, and Dallas
Brown was banging away at the pianola, tramping the pedals with the
delicacy and feeling of a football centre rush kicking a goal. Somebody
shouted the Harbison man’s name to me, and then I saw Jimmy beckoning
crazily to me from the den. The Harbison man—he was nice looking, in a
large, much-shaven way—saw him too, and stepped back. It was easy to
see that something had occurred to upset Jim: he looked quite yellow,
and he had been running his fingers through his hair.

“For heaven’s sake, come in, Kit!” he said. “I need a cool head. Didn’t
I tell you this is my calamity day?”

“Cook gone?” I asked with interest. I was starving.

He closed the door and took up a tragic attitude in front of the fire.
“Did you ever hear of Aunt Selina?” he demanded.

“I knew there _was_ one,” I ventured, mindful of certain gossip as to
whence Jimmy derived the Wilson income. Jim himself was too worried to
be cautious. He waved a brazen hand at the snug room, at the Japanese
prints on the walls, at the rugs, at the teakwood cabinets and the
screen inlaid with pearl and ivory.

“All this,” he said comprehensively, “every bite I eat, clothes I wear,
drinks I drink—you needn’t look like that; I don’t drink so darned
much—everything comes from Aunt Selina. Buttons,” he finished with a
groan.

“Selina Buttons,” I said reflectively. “I don’t remember ever having
known any one named Buttons, although I had a cat once——”

“—— the cat!” he said rudely. “Her name isn’t Buttons. Her name is
Caruthers, my Aunt Selina Caruthers, and the money comes from buttons.”

“Oh!”—feebly.

“It’s an old business,” he went on, with something of proprietary pride.
“My grandfather founded it in 1775. Made buttons for the Continental
Army. Aunt Selina is the owner now; I will be some day.”

“I hope you will make _good_ buttons, James,” I said. But again he
interrupted.

“It’s like this,” he went on hurriedly. “Aunt Selina believes in me. She
likes pictures, and she wanted me to paint, if I could. I’d have given
up long ago—oh, I know what you all think of my work—but for Aunt
Selina. She has encouraged me, and she’s done more than that: she’s paid
the bills.”

“Dear Aunt Selina!” I breathed.

“When I got married,” Jim persisted, “Aunt Selina doubled my allowance.
I always expected to sell something, and begin to make money, and in the
meantime what she advanced I considered as a loan.” He was eying me
defiantly, but I was growing serious. It was evident from the preamble
that something was coming.

“To understand, Kit,” he went on dubiously, “you would have to know her.
She won’t stand for divorce. She thinks it is a crime.”

“What!” I sat up. I have always regarded divorce as essentially
disagreeable, like castor oil, but necessary.

“Oh, you know well enough what I am driving at,” he burst out savagely.
“She doesn’t know Bella has gone. She thinks I am living in a little
domestic heaven, and—she is coming to-night to hear me flap my wings.”

I don’t think Jimmy had known that Dallas had come in and was listening.
I am sure I had not. Hearing his chuckle at the doorway brought us up
with a jerk.

“Where has Aunt Selina been for the last two or three years?” he asked
easily.

Jim brightened perceptibly.

“Europe. Look here, Dal, you’re a smart chap. She’ll only be here about
four hours. Can’t you think of some way to let me out of this? I want to
let her down easy, too. I’m mighty fond of her. Can’t we—can’t I say
Bella has a headache?”

“Rotten!”—laconically.

“Gone out of town?”—hopefully.

“And you with a houseful of dinner guests! Try again, Jim.”

“I have it,” Jim said suddenly. “Dallas, ask Anne if she won’t play
hostess for to-night? Be Mrs. Wilson _pro tem_? Anne would love it. Aunt
Selina never saw Bella. Then, afterwards, next year, when I’m hung in
the Academy and can stand on my feet”—(“Not if you’re hung,” Dallas
interjected)—“I’ll break the truth to her.”

But Dallas was not enthused.

“Anne wouldn’t do at all,” he declared. “She’d be talking about the kids
before she knew it, and patting me on the head.” He said it
complacently: Anne flirts, but they are really devoted.

“The Mercer girls?” I suggested, but Jimmy raised a horrified hand.

“You don’t know Aunt Selina,” he protested. “I couldn’t offer Leila in
the gown she’s got on, unless she wore a shawl, and Betty is too fair.
Well, it’s up to you, Kit.”

I hadn’t really known what was coming, and of course I declared at once
against it. And then Leila Mercer came and pounded on the door and said
they were famishing, and dinner had been announced ages ago, and what
with the hurry and stress, and poor Jim’s distracted face, I weakened.

“She might stay longer than four hours,” I objected. “She might miss her
train.”

“You’re not game, Kit,” Dallas scoffed. “You’re a four-flusher. Why,
it’s the biggest prank I ever heard of. It will save the old lady a
shock and save Jim’s feelings. When you’re an elderly person yourself,
Kit, you’ll appreciate what you are doing to-night.”

So in the end they persuaded me. Oh, I am not defending myself: I
suppose I deserved everything that happened. But they said Aunt Selina
was to be there only between trains, and that she was as deaf as a post;
and instead of my getting the blame, the way I did, the real culprits
were Dallas Brown and Jim. I can’t remember all the arguments they
offered—I do remember they stooped to bribes—but when they put it to
me that it was in my power to save a fellow being from complete ruin, I
capitulated.

When they opened the door into the living-room, Max Reed had arrived and
was helping to hide a decanter and glasses, and somebody said a cab was
at the door. And that was the way it began.




                                  II.


The minute I had consented, I regretted it. After all, what were Jimmy’s
troubles to me? Why should I help him to impose on an unsuspecting
elderly lady? And it was only putting off discovery anyhow. Sooner or
later, she would learn of the divorce, and—— Just at that instant my
eyes fell on Mr. Harbison—Tom Harbison, as Anne called him. He was
looking on with an amused, half puzzled smile while people were rushing
around hiding the roulette wheel and things of which Miss Caruthers
might disapprove, and Betty Mercer was on her knees winding up a toy
bear that Max had brought her. What would he think? It was evident that
he thought badly of us already—that he was contemptuously amused, and
to have to ask him to lend himself to the deception!

With a gasp I hurled myself after Jimmy, only to hear a strange voice in
the hall and to know that I was too late. I was in for it, whatever was
coming. It was Aunt Selina who was coming—along the hall, followed by
Jim, who was mopping his face and trying not to notice the paralyzed
silence in the library.

Aunt Selina met me in the doorway. To my frantic eyes she seemed to
tower above us by at least a foot, and beside her Jimmy was a red,
perspiring cherub.

“Here she is,” Jimmy said, from behind a temporary eclipse of black
cloak and travelling bag. He was on top of the situation now, and he was
mendaciously cheerful. He had _not_ said, “Here is my wife.” That would
have been a lie. No, Jimmy merely said, “Here she is.” If Aunt Selina
chose to think me Bella, was it not her responsibility? And if I chose
to accept the situation, was it not mine? Dallas Brown came forward
gravely as Aunt Selina folded over and kissed me, and surreptitiously
patted me with one hand while he held out the other to Miss Caruthers. I
loathed him!

“We always expect something unusual from James, Miss Caruthers,” he
said, with his best manner, “but _this_—this is beyond our wildest
dreams.”

Well, it’s too awful to linger over. We got Aunt Selina upstairs, and
gave her to Hannah, one of the maids, and then Jimmy went into the den
and closed the door, and we heard him unlock the cellarette. Mr.
Harbison, who had been standing alone by the fireplace, came over to me,
where I had collapsed into a chair.

“Do you know,” he said, looking down at me with his clear, disconcerting
gaze—“do you know that I have just grasped the situation? The piano was
making such a noise that I did not hear your name, and I have only just
realized that you are my hostess! I don’t know why I got the impression
that this was a bachelor establishment, but I did. Odd, wasn’t it?”

I positively couldn’t look away from him. My features seemed frozen, and
my eyes were glued to his. As for telling him the truth—well, my tongue
refused to move. And upstairs that awful old woman would be coming down
soon, and asking me how much I paid the cook, and what had become of the
vase Cousin Jane sent us as a wedding gift!

Dinner was a half hour late when we finally went out, Jimmy leading off
with Aunt Selina, and I, as hostess, trailing behind the procession with
Mr. Harbison. Dallas took in the two Mercer girls, for we were one man
short, and Max took Anne. Leila Mercer was so excited that she wriggled,
and as for me, the candles and the orchids—everything—danced around in
a circle, and I just seemed to catch the back of my chair as it flew
past. Jim had ordered away the wines and brought out some weak and cheap
Chianti. Dallas looked gloomy at the change, but Jim explained in an
undertone that Aunt Selina didn’t approve of expensive vintages.
Naturally, the meal was glum enough.

Aunt Selina had had her dinner on the train, and so she spent her time
asking me questions the length of the table, and getting acquainted with
me. She brought a bottle of some sort of medicine downstairs with her,
and she took a claret-glassful, while she talked. The stuff was called
Pomona: shall I ever forget it?

It was Mr. Harbison who first noticed Takahiro. Jimmy’s Jap had been the
only thing in the _ménage_ which Bella declared she hated to leave. But
he was doing the strangest things: his little black eyes shifted
nervously, and he looked queer.

“What’s wrong with him?” Mr. Harbison asked me finally, when he saw that
I noticed. “Is he ill?”

Then Aunt Selina’s voice from the other end of the table.

“Bella,” she called, in a high clear voice, “do you let James eat
cucumbers?”

“I think he must be,” I said hurriedly aside to Mr. Harbison. “See how
his hands shake!” But Aunt Selina would not be ignored.

“Cucumbers and strawberries,” she repeated impressively. “I was saying,
Bella, that cucumbers have always given James the most fearful
indigestion. And yet I see you serve them at your table. Do you remember
what I wrote you to give him when he has his dreadful spells?”

I was quite speechless; every one was looking, and no one could help. It
was clear Jim was racking his brain, and we sat staring desperately at
each other across the candles. Everything I had ever known faded from
me; eight pairs of eyes bored into me, Mr. Harbison’s politely amused.

“I don’t remember,” I said at last. “Really, I don’t believe——”

Aunt Selina smiled in a superior way.

“Now, don’t you recall it?” she insisted. “I said: ‘Baking soda in water
taken internally for cucumbers; baking soda in water externally, rubbed
on, when he gets that dreadful, itching strawberry rash’!”

“I am going to write that down,” Max said earnestly. “You have no idea,
Miss Caruthers, how I suffer from strawberry rash.”

I believe the dinner went on. Somebody asked Aunt Selina how much
over-charge she had paid in foreign hotels, and after that she was as
harmless as a dove.

Then half way through the dinner we heard a crash in Takahiro’s pantry,
and when he did not appear again, Jim got up and went out to
investigate. He was gone quite a little while, and when he came back he
looked worried.

“Sick,” he replied to our inquiring glances. “One of the maids will come
in. They have sent for a doctor.”

Aunt Selina was for going out at once and “fixing him up,” as she put
it, but Dallas interfered.

“I wouldn’t, Miss Caruthers,” he said, in the deferential manner he had
adopted toward her. “You don’t know what it may be. He’s been looking
spotty all evening.”

“It might be scarlet fever,” Max broke in cheerfully. “I say, scarlet
fever on a Mongolian—what color would he be, Jimmy? What do yellow and
red make? Green?”

“Orange,” Jim said shortly. “I wish you people would remember that we
are trying to eat.”

The fact was, however, that no one was really eating, except Mr.
Harbison, who had given up trying to understand us, considering, no
doubt, our subdued excitement as our normal condition. Ages afterwards I
learned that he thought my face almost tragic that night, and he
supposed, from the way I glared across the table, that I had quarrelled
with my husband!

Well, that’s the picture as nearly as I can draw it: a round table with
a low centrepiece of orchids in lavenders and pink, old silver
candlesticks with filigree shades against the sombre wainscoting: nine
people, two of them unhappy—Jim and I; one of them complacent—Aunt
Selina; one puzzled—Mr. Harbison; and the rest hysterically mirthful.
Add one sick Japanese butler and grind in the mill of the gods.

Every one promptly forgot Takahiro in the excitement of the game they
were playing. Finally, however, Aunt Selina, who seemed to have Takahiro
on her mind, looked up from her plate.

“That Jap was speckled,” she asserted. “I wouldn’t be surprised it’s
measles. Has he been sniffling, James?”

“Has he been sniffling?” Jim threw across at me.

“I hadn’t noticed it,” I said meekly, while the others choked.

“The difference is this,” Max said distinctly and with dignity, apropos
of nothing. “Kit is a pessimist—just now. The true optimist sees the
doughnut; the pessimist sees the hole.”

As every one wanted to laugh, they did it then, and under cover of the
noise I caught Anne’s eye, and we left the dining-room. The men stayed,
and by the very firmness with which the door closed behind us, I knew
that Dallas and Max were bringing out the bottles that Takahiro had
hidden. I was seething. When Aunt Selina indicated a desire to go over
the house (it was natural that she should want to: it was her house, in
a way) I excused myself for a minute and flew back to the dining-room.

It was as I had expected. Jim hadn’t cheered perceptibly, but the rest
were patting him on the back, and pouring things out for him, and
saying, “Poor old Jim!” in the most maddening way. And the Harbison man
was looking more and more puzzled, and not at all hilarious.

I descended on them like a thunderbolt.

“That’s it!” I cried shrewishly, with my back against the door. “Leave
her to me, all of you, and pat each other on the back, and say it’s gone
splendidly! Oh, I know you, every one!” (Mr. Harbison got up and pulled
out a chair, but I couldn’t sit: I folded my arms over the back.) “After
a while, I suppose, you’ll slip upstairs, the four of you, and have your
game.” They looked guilty. “But I will block that right now. I am going
to stay—here. If Aunt Selina wants me, she can find me—here!”

The first indication those men had that Mr. Harbison didn’t know the
state of affairs was when he pushed back his own chair and got up.

“Mrs. Wilson is quite right,” he said gravely. “We’re a selfish lot. If
Miss Caruthers is a responsibility, let us share her.”

“To arms!” Jim said, with an affectation of lightness, as they all rose,
and threw open the door. Dallas’s retort, “Whose?” was lost in the
confusion, and we went into the library. On the way Dallas managed to
speak to me.

“If Harbison doesn’t know, don’t tell him,” he said in an undertone.
“He’s a queer duck, in some ways; he mightn’t think it funny.”

“Funny!” I choked. “It’s the least funny thing I ever experienced.
Deceiving that Harbison man isn’t so bad—he thinks me crazy, anyhow.
He’s been staring his eyes out at me——”

“I don’t wonder. You’re really lovely to-night, Kit, and you look like a
vixen.”

“But to deceive that harmless old lady—well, thank goodness, it’s
almost ten, and she leaves in an hour or so.”

But she didn’t. That is the story.

Jimmy and the Mercer girls took Aunt Selina around. Anne Brown, with
Dallas and Max, sneaked up to the studio for a cigarette, and Mr.
Harbison stayed with me. He said he thought I looked white, and he got
me a cushion, and told me not to worry about the butler. Everything had
gone off well, and he was probably not seriously ill. And then, when he
found I was not talkative, he let me alone and sauntered around the
room, and finally disappeared into the den.

It was then that the real complexity of the situation began to develop.
Some one had rung the bell and had been admitted to the hall, and a maid
came to the door of the library. When she saw me she came over
uncertainly. Even then it struck me that she looked odd and that she was
not in uniform. However, I knew nothing—then—of bachelor
establishments, and the next thing she said knocked her and her clothes
clear out of my head. Evidently she knew me.

“Miss McNair,” she said in a low tone, “there is a lady in the hall, a
_veiled_ person, and she is asking for Mr. Wilson.”

“Then why not get Mr. Wilson?” I asked. My head was bursting. “He is in
the studio, probably.”

The girl hesitated. “Excuse me, miss, but Miss Caruthers——”

Then I saw the situation.

“Never mind,” I said, rising. “I’ll find Mr. Wilson.”

But as the girl left by one door, the person in question appeared at the
other, and raised her veil. I was perfectly paralyzed. It was Bella!
Bella in a fur coat and a veil, with the most tragic eyes I ever saw,
and entirely white except for a dab of rouge in the middle of each
cheek. She came right over and clutched me by the arm.

“Who was being carried out into that ambulance?” she demanded, glaring
at me with the most awful intensity.

“I’m sure I don’t know, Bella,” I said, wriggling away from her fingers.
“What in the world are you doing here? I thought you were out at
Pemberton.”

“You are hiding something from me!” she accused. “It is Jim! I see it in
your face.”

“Well, it isn’t,” I snapped. “It seems to me, really, Bella, that you
and Jim ought to be able to manage your own affairs, without dragging me
in.” I was not pleasant, but if she was suffering, so was I. “Jim is as
well as he ever was. He’s upstairs somewhere. I’ll send for him.”

She gripped me again, and held on while her color came back.

“You’ll do nothing of the kind,” she said, and she had quite got hold of
herself again. “I do not want to see him: I hope you don’t think, Kit,
that I came back here to see James Wilson. Why, I have forgotten that
there is such a person, and you know it.”

Somebody laughed in the next room, and I was growing nervous. What if
Aunt Selina should come down, or Mr. Harbison come in?

“Why _did_ you come, then, Bella?” I inquired. “He may come in.”

“I was passing in the motor,” she said, and I honestly think she hoped I
would believe her, “and I saw that am——” She stopped and began again.
“I thought Jim was out of town, and I came to see Takahiro,” she said
brazenly. “He was devoted to me, and Evans is going to leave. I’ll tell
you what to do, Kit. I’ll go back to the dining-room, and you send Taka
there. If any one comes, I can slip into the pantry.”

“It’s immoral,” I protested. “To steal——”

“My own butler!” she broke in impatiently. “You’re not usually so
scrupulous, Kit. Hurry! I hear that hateful Anne Brown.”

So we slid back along the hall, and I rang for Takahiro. But no one
came.

“I think I ought to tell you, Bella,” I said, as we waited, and Bella
was staring around the room—“I think you ought to know that Miss
Caruthers is here.” Bella only shrugged her shoulders.

“Well, thank goodness,” she said, “I don’t have to see her. The only
pleasant thing I remember about my year of married life is that I did
_not_ meet Aunt Selina.”

I rang again, but still there was no answer. And then it occurred to me
that the stillness below-stairs was almost oppressive. Bella was
noticing things, too, for she began to fasten her veil again with a
malicious little smile.

“One of the things I remember my late husband saying,” she said, “was
that _he_ could manage this house, and had done it for years, with
flawless service. Stand on the bell, Kit.”

I did. We stood there with the table, just as it had been left, between
us, and waited for a response. Bella was growing impatient. She raised
her eyebrows (she is very handsome, Bella is) and flung out her chin as
if she began to enjoy the situation.

I thought I heard the rattle of silver from the pantry just then, and I
hurried to the door in a rage. But the pantry was empty and full of
dishes, and all the lights were out but one, burning dimly. I could have
sworn that I saw one of the servants duck into the stairway to the
basement, but when I got there the stairs were empty, and something was
burning in the kitchen below.

Bella had followed me and was peering over my shoulder curiously.

“There isn’t a servant in the house,” she said triumphantly. And when we
went down to the kitchen, she seemed to be right. It was in disgraceful
disorder, and one of the bottles of wine that had been banished from the
dining-room sat half empty on the floor.

“Drunk!” Bella said with conviction. But I didn’t think so. There had
not been time enough, for one thing. Suddenly I remembered the ambulance
that had been the cause of Bella’s appearance—for no one could believe
her silly story about Takahiro. I didn’t wait to voice my suspicions to
her; I simply left her there, staring helplessly at the confusion, and
ran upstairs again: through the dining-room, past Jimmy and Aunt Selina,
past Leila Mercer and Max, who were flirting on the stairs, up, up to
the servants’ bedrooms, and there my suspicions were verified. There was
every evidence of a hasty flight; in three bedrooms five trunks stood
locked and ominous, and the chests yawned with open doors, empty. Bella
had been right: there was not a servant in the house.

As I emerged from the untidy emptiness of the servants’ wing, I met Mr.
Harbison coming out of the studio.

“I wish you would let me do some of this running about for you, Mrs.
Wilson,” he said gravely. “You are not well, and I can’t think of
anything worse for a headache. Has the butler’s illness clogged the
household machinery?”

“Worse,” I replied, trying not to breathe in gasps. “I wouldn’t be
running around—like this—but there is not a servant in the house! They
have gone, the entire lot.”

“That’s odd,” he said slowly. “Gone! Are you sure?”

In reply I pointed to the servants’ wing. “Trunks packed,” I said
tragically, “rooms empty, kitchen and pantries full of dishes. Did you
ever hear anything like it?”

“Never,” he asserted. “It makes me suspect——” What he suspected he did
not say; instead, he turned on his heel, without a word of explanation,
and ran down the stairs. I stood staring after him, wondering if every
one in the place had gone crazy. Then I heard Betty Mercer scream and
the rest talking loud and laughing, and Mr. Harbison came up the stairs
again two at a time.

“How long has that Jap been ailing, Mrs. Wilson?” he asked.

“I—I don’t know,” I replied helplessly. “What _is_ the trouble,
anyhow?”

“I think he probably has something contagious,” he said, “and it has
scared the servants away. As Mrs. Brown said, he looked spotty. I
suggested to your husband that it might be as well to get the house
empty—in case we are correct.”

“Oh, yes, by all means,” I said eagerly. I couldn’t get away from there
too soon. “I’ll go and get my——” Then I stopped. Why, the man wouldn’t
expect _me_ to leave; I had to play out the wretched farce to the end!

“I’ll go down and see them off,” I finished lamely, and we went down the
stairs.

Just for the moment I forgot Bella altogether. I found Aunt Selina
bonneted and cloaked, taking a stirrup cup of Pomona for her nerves, and
the rest throwing on their wraps in a hurry. Downstairs Max was
telephoning for his car, which wasn’t due for an hour, and Jim was
walking up and down, swearing under his breath. With the prospect of
getting rid of them all, and of going home comfortably to try and forget
the whole wretched affair, I cheered up quite a lot. I even played up my
part of hostess, and Dallas said, aside, that I was a brick.

Just then Jim threw open the door.

There was a man on the top step, with his mouth full of tacks, and he
was nailing something to the door, just below Jim’s Florentine bronze
knocker, and standing back with his head on one side to see if it was
straight.

“What are you doing?” Jim demanded fiercely, but the man only drove
another tack. It was Mr. Harbison who stepped outside and read the card.

It said “Scarlet Fever.”

“Scarlet fever,” Mr. Harbison read, as if he couldn’t believe it. Then
he turned to us, huddled in the hall.

“It seems it wasn’t measles, after all,” he said cheerfully. “I move we
get into Mr. Reed’s automobile out there, and have a disinfection party.
I suppose even you _blasé_ society folks have not exhausted that kind of
diversion.”

But the man on the step spat his tacks in his hand and spoke for the
first time.

“No, you don’t,” he said. “Not on your life. Just step back, please, and
close the door. This house is quarantined.”




                                  III.


There is hardly any use trying to describe what followed. Anne Brown
began to cry, and talk about the children. (She went to Europe once and
stayed till they all got over the whooping-cough.) And Dallas said he
had a pull, because his mill controlled I forget how many votes, and the
thing to do was to be quiet and comfortable and we would be out in the
morning. Max took it as a huge joke, and somebody found him at the
telephone, giving it to one of the papers. The Mercer girls were
hysterically giggling, and Aunt Selina sat on a stiff-backed chair and
took aromatic ammonia. As for Jim, he had collapsed on the lowest step
of the stairs, and sat there with his head in his hands. When he did
look up, he didn’t dare to look at me.

The Harbison man was arguing with the impassive individual on the top
step outside, and I saw him get out his pocketbook and offer a crisp
bundle of bills. But the man from the Board of Health only smiled and
tacked at his offensive sign. After a while Mr. Harbison came in and
closed the door, and we stared at each other.

“I know what I’m going to do,” I said, swallowing a lump in my throat:
“I’m going to get out through a basement window at the back. I am going
home.”

“Home!” Aunt Selina gasped, almost dropping her ammonia bottle. “My dear
Bella! Home?”

Jimmy groaned from the foot of the stairs, but Anne Brown was getting
over her tears and now she turned on me in a temper.

“It’s all your fault,” she said. “I was going to stay at home and get a
little sleep——”

“Well, you can sleep now,” Dallas broke in. “There’ll be nothing to do
but sleep.”

“I think you haven’t grasped the situation, Dal,” I said icily. “There
will be plenty to do. There isn’t a servant in the house!”

Then there _was_ a row. We had worked back to the den now, and I stood
in front of the fireplace and let the storm beat around me, and tried to
look perfectly cold and indifferent, and not see Mr. Harbison’s shocked
face. No wonder he thought them a lot of savages, browbeating their
hostess the way they did.

“It’s a fool thing anyhow,” Max Reed wound up, “to celebrate the
anniversary of a divorce—especially——” Here he caught Jim’s eye and
stopped. But I had suddenly remembered. _Bella down in the basement!_

It was after midnight before they were rational enough to discuss ways
and means, and of course the first thing suggested was that we all
adjourn below-stairs and clean up after the dinner. I could have slain
Max Reed for the notion, and the Mercer girls for taking him up.

“Of course we will,” they said in a duet. “What a lark!” And they
actually began to pin up their dinner gowns. It was Jim who stopped
that.

“Oh, look here, you people,” he objected, “I’m not going to let you do
that. We’ll get some servants in to-morrow. I’ll go down and put out the
lights. There will be enough clean dishes for breakfast.”

It was lucky for me that they started a new discussion then and there
about who would get the breakfast. In the midst of the excitement I
slipped away and carried the news to Bella. She was where I had left
her, and she had made herself a cup of tea, and was very much at home,
which was natural.

“Do you know,” she said ominously, “that you have been away over an
hour? And that I have gone through agonies of nervousness for fear Jim
Wilson would come down and think I came here to see him.”

“No one would think that, Bella,” I soothed her. “Everybody knows you
loathe him—Jim, too.” She looked at me over the edge of her cup.

“I’ll run along now,” she said, “since Takahiro isn’t here. And if Jim
has any sense at all, he will clear out every maid in the house. I never
saw such a kitchen. Well, lead the way, Kit. I suppose they are deep in
bridge, or roulette, or something.”

She was fixing her veil, and I saw I would have to tell her. Personally,
I would much rather have told her the house was on fire.

“Wait a minute, Bella,” I said. “You see, something queer has happened.
You know this is the anniversary—well, you know what it is—and Jim was
awfully glum. So we thought we would come——”

“What are you driving at?” she demanded. “You are a sea-green, Kit.
What’s the matter? You needn’t think I mind because Jim has a
jollification to celebrate his divorce.”

“It—it was Takahiro—in the ambulance,” I blurted. “Scarlet fever.
We—Bella, we are shut in, quarantined.”

She didn’t faint. She just sat down and stared at me, and I stared back
at her. Then a miserable alarm clock on the table suddenly went off like
an explosion, and Bella began to laugh. I knew what that was—hysteria.
She always had attacks like that when things went wrong. I was quite
desperate by that time; I hoped they would all hear and come down and
take her upstairs and put her to bed like a Christian, so she could
giggle her soul out. But after a bit she quieted down and began to cry
softly, and I knew the worst was over. I gave her a shake, and she was
so angry that she got over it altogether.

“Kit, you are horrid,” she choked. “Don’t you see what a position I am
in? I am not going upstairs to face Anne and the rest of them. You can
just put me in the coal cellar.”

“Isn’t there a window you could get through?” I asked desperately.
“Locking the door doesn’t shut up a whole house.”

Bella’s courage revived at that, and she said yes, there were windows,
plenty of them, only she didn’t see how she could get out. And I said
she would _have_ to get out, because I was playing Bella in the
performance, and I didn’t care for an understudy. Then the situation
dawned on her, and she sat down and laughed herself weak in the knees.
She wanted to stay, then, and see the fun out. But I was firm: she would
have to go. Things were complicated enough without her.

Well, we looked funny, no doubt. Bella in a Russian pony automobile coat
over the jet dinner-gown she had worn at the Clevelands’ dinner, and I
in cream lace, gathered up from the kitchen floor, with Bella’s ermine
pelerine around my bare shoulders, and dishes and overturned chairs
everywhere.

Bella knew more about the lower regions of her ex-home than I would have
thought. She opened a door in a corner and led the way through a narrow
hall past the refrigerating-room, to a huge, cemented cellar, with a
furnace in the centre, and a half-dozen electric lights making it really
brilliant.

“Get a chair,” Bella said over her shoulder, excitedly. “I can get out
easily here, through the coal-hole. Imagine my——”

But it was my turn to grip Bella. From behind the furnace were coming
the most terrible sounds, rasping noises that fairly frayed the silk of
my nerves. We stood petrified for an instant. Then Bella laughed. “They
are not all gone,” she said carefully. “Some one is asleep there.”

We tiptoed to where we could see around the furnace, and, sure enough,
some one _was_ asleep there. Only, it was not one of the servants; it
was a portly policeman, with a newspaper and an empty plate on the floor
on one side, and a champagne bottle on the other. He had slid down in
his chair, with his chin on his brass buttons, and his helmet had rolled
a dozen feet away. Bella had to clap her hand over her mouth.

“Fairly caught!” she whispered. “Sartor resartus, the arrester arrested.
Oh, Jim and his flawless service!”

But after we got over our surprise, we saw the situation was serious.
The policeman was threatening to waken. Once he stopped snoring to yawn
noisily, and we beat a hasty retreat. Bella switched off the lights in a
hurry and locked the door behind us. We hardly breathed until we were
back in the kitchen again, and everything quiet. And then Jimmy called
my name from up above somewhere.

“I am going to call him down, Bella,” I said firmly. “Let him help you
out. I’m sure I don’t see why I should have all this when the two of
you——”

“Oh, no, no! Surely, Kit, you wouldn’t be so cruel!” she whispered
pleadingly. “You know what he would think. He—oh, Kit, let them all get
settled for the night, and then come down, like a dear, and help me out.
I know loads of ways—honestly I do.”

“If I leave you here,” I debated, “what about the policeman?”

“Never mind him”—frantically. “Listen! There’s Jim up in the pantry.
Run, for the sake of heaven!”

So—I ran. At the top of the stairs I met Jimmy, very crumpled as to
shirt-front and dejected as to face.

“I’ve been hunting everywhere for you,” he said dismally. “I thought you
had added to the general merriment by falling downstairs and breaking
your neck.”

I went past him with my chin up. Now that I had time to think about it,
I was furiously angry with him.

“Kit!” he called after me appealingly, but I would not hear. Then he
adopted different tactics. He took advantage of my catching my foot in
the lace of my gown to pass me, and to stand with his back against the
door.

“You’re not going until you hear me, Kit,” he declared miserably. “In
the first place, for all you are down on me, is it my fault? Honestly,
now?”

_“Is it my fault!”_ I refused to speak.

“I was coming home to be miserable alone,” he went on, “and—oh, I know
you meant well, Kit; but _you_ asked all these crazy people here.”

“Perhaps you will give me credit for some things,” I said wearily. “I
did _not_ give Takahiro scarlet fever, for instance, and—if you will
permit me to mention it—Aunt Selina is not _my_ Aunt Selina.”

“That’s what I wanted to speak to you about,” Jimmy went on wretchedly,
trying not to look at me. “You see, when they were rowing so about who
would get breakfast—I never saw such a lot of people; half of them
never touch breakfast, but of course now they want all kinds of
things—when they were talking, Aunt Selina said she knew _you_ would
get it, being the hostess, and responsible, besides knowing where things
were kept.” He had fixed his eyes on the orchids, and he looked
shrunken, actually shrunken. “I thought,” he finished, “you might give
me a few pointers now, and I could come down in the morning, and—and
fuss up something, coffee and so on. I would say you did it! Oh, hang it
all, Kit, why don’t you say something?”

“What do you want me to say?” I demanded. “That I love to cook, and of
course I’ll fix trays and carry them up in the morning to Anne Brown and
Leila Mercer and the rest; and that I will have the shaving water
ready——”

“I know what I’m going to do,” Jimmy said, with sudden resolution. “Aunt
Selina and her money can go to blazes. I am going right upstairs and
tell her the truth, tell her who you are, what I am, and all the rest of
it.” He opened the door.

“You’ll do nothing of the kind,” I gasped, catching him in time. “Don’t
dare, Jimmy Wilson! Why, what would they think of me? After letting her
call me Bella, and him—— Jim, if Mr. Harbison ever learns the truth,
I—I will take poison. If we are going to be shut up here together, we
will have to carry it on. I couldn’t stand the disgrace.”

In spite of a heroic effort, Jim looked relieved. “They have been
hunting for the linen closet,” he said, more cheerfully, “and there will
be room enough, I think. Harbison and I will hang out in the studio:
there are two couches there. I’m afraid you’ll have to take Aunt Selina,
Kit.”

“Certainly,” I said coldly. That was the way it was all along. Whenever
there was something to do that no one else would undertake—any
unpleasant responsibility—that entire mongrel household turned with one
gesture and pointed its finger at me! Well, it is over now, and I ought
not to be bitter, considering everything.

It was quite characteristic of that memorable evening (that is quite
novelesque, I think) that my interview with Jimmy should have a
sensational ending. He was terribly down, of course, and as I was trying
to pass him to the door, he caught my hand.

“You’re a girl in a thousand, Kit,” he said forlornly. “If I were not so
damnably, hopelessly, idiotically in love with—somebody else, I would
be crazy about you.”

“Don’t be maudlin,” I retorted. “Would you mind letting my hand go?” I
felt sure Bella could hear.

“Oh, come now, Kit,” he implored, “we’ve always got along so well. It’s
a shame to let a thing like this make us bad friends. Aren’t you ever
going to forgive me?”

“Never,” I said promptly. “When I once get away, I don’t want ever to
see you again. I was never so humiliated in my life. I loathe you!”

And of course then I turned around, and there was Aunt Selina with her
eyes protruding until you could have knocked them off with a stick, and
beside her, very red and uncomfortable, Mr. Harbison!

“Bella!” she said, in a shocked voice, “is that the way you speak to
your husband! It is high time I came here, I think, and took a hand in
this affair.”

“Oh, never mind, Aunt Selina,” Jim said, with a sheepish grin.
“Kit—Bella is tired and nervous. This is the h—deuce of a situation.
No—er—servants, and all that.”

But Aunt Selina did mind, and showed it. She pulled the unlucky Harbison
man in through the door and closed it, and then stood glaring at us
both.

“Every little quarrel is an apple knocked from the tree of love,” she
announced oratorically.

“This was a very little quarrel,” Jim said, edging toward the door;
“a—a green apple, Aunt Selina, a colicky little green apple.” But she
was not to be diverted.

“Bella,” she said severely, “you said you loathed him. You didn’t mean
that.”

“But I do!” I cried hysterically. “There isn’t any word to tell how
I—how I detest him.”

Then I swept past them all and flew to Bella’s dressing-room and locked
myself in. Aunt Selina knocked until she was tired, then gave up and
went to bed.

That was the night Anne Brown’s pearl collar was stolen!




                                  IV.


Of course, one knows that there are people who in a different grade of
society would be shoplifters and pickpockets. When they are restrained
by obligation or environment they become a little over-keen at bridge,
or take the wrong sables, or stuff a gold-backed brush into a muff at a
reception. (You remember the ivory dressing set that Theodora Bucknell
had fastened with fine gold chains? And the sensation it caused at the
Bucknell cotillion when Mrs. Van Zire went sweeping to her carriage with
two feet of gold chain hanging from the front of her wrap?)

But Anne’s pearl collar was different. In the first place, instead of
three or four hundred people, the suspicion had to be divided among ten.
And of those ten, at least eight of us were friends, and the other two
had been vouched for by the Browns and Jimmy. It was a horrible mix-up.
For the necklace was gone—there couldn’t be any doubt of that—and
although, as Dallas said, it couldn’t get out of the house, still, there
were plenty of places to hide the thing.

The worst of our troubles really originated with Max Reed, after all.
For it was Max who made the silly wager over the telephone, with Dick
Bagley. He bet five hundred even that one of us, at least, would break
quarantine within the next twenty-four hours, and of course that settled
it. Dick told it around the club as a joke, and a man who owns a
newspaper heard him and called up the paper. Then the paper called up
the Health Office, after setting up a scare-head, “Will Money Free Them?
Board of Health Versus Millionaire.”

It was almost three when the house settled down—nobody had any
night-clothes, although finally, through Dallas, who gave them to Anne,
who gave them to the rest, we got some things of Jimmy’s—and I was
still dressed. The house was perfectly quiet, and, after listening
carefully, I went slowly down the stairs. There was a light in the hall,
and another back in the dining-room, and I got along without any
trouble. But the pantry, where the stairs led down, was dark, and the
wretched swinging door would not stay open.

I caught my skirt in the door as I went through, and I had to stop to
loosen it. And in that awful minute I heard some one breathing just
beside me. I had stooped to my gown, and I turned my head without
straightening—I couldn’t have raised myself to an erect posture, for my
knees were giving way under me—and just at my feet lay the still
glowing end of a match!

I had to swallow twice before I could speak. Then I said sharply:

“Who’s there?”

The man was so close it is a wonder I had not walked into him; his voice
was right at my ear.

“I am sorry I startled you,” he said quietly. “I was afraid to speak
suddenly, or move, for fear I would do—what I have done.”

It was Mr. Harbison.

“I—I thought you were—it is very late,” I managed to say, with dry
lips. “Do you know where the electric switch is?”

“Mrs. Wilson!” It was clear he had not known me before. “Why, no; don’t
you?”

“I am all confused,” I muttered, and beat a retreat into the
dining-room. There, in the friendly light, we could at least see each
other, and I think he was as much impressed by the fact that I had not
undressed as I was by the fact that he _had_, partly. He wore a hideous
dressing-gown of Jimmy’s, much too small, and his hair, parted and
plastered down in the early evening, stood up in a sort of brown brush
all over his head. He was trying to flatten it with his hands.

“It must be three o’clock,” he said, with polite surprise, “and the
house is like a barn. You ought not to be running around with your arms
uncovered, Mrs. Wilson. Surely you could have called some of us.”

“I didn’t wish to disturb any one,” I said, with distinct truth.

“I suppose you are like me,” he said. “The novelty of the situation—and
everything. I got to thinking things over, and then I realized the
studio was getting cold, so I thought I would come down and take a look
at the furnace. I didn’t suppose any one else would think of it. But I
lost myself in that pantry and nearly went down the dumb-waiter.” And,
as if in judgment on me, at that instant came two rather terrific thumps
from somewhere below, and inarticulate words, shouted rather than
spoken. It was uncanny, of course, coming as it did through the register
at our feet. Mr. Harbison looked startled.

“Oh, by the way,” I said, as carelessly as I could. “In the excitement,
I forgot to mention it. There is a policeman asleep in the furnace room.
I—I suppose we will have to keep him, now,” I finished, as airily as I
could.

“Oh, a policeman—in the cellar,” he repeated, staring at me, and then
he moved toward the pantry door.

“You needn’t go down,” I said desperately, with visions of Bella Knowles
sitting on the kitchen table, surrounded by soiled dishes and all the
cheerless aftermath of a dinner party. “Please don’t go down. I—it’s
one of my rules—never to let a stranger go down to the kitchen. I—I’m
peculiar—that way—and besides, it’s—it’s mussy.”

Bang! Crash! through the register pipe, and some language quite
articulate. Then silence.

“Look here, Mrs. Wilson,” he said resolutely. “What do I care about the
kitchen? I’m going down and arrest that policeman for disturbing the
peace. He will have the pipes down.”

“You must not go,” I said, with desperate firmness. “He—he is probably
in a very dangerous state just now. We—I—locked him in.”

The Harbison man grinned and then became serious.

“Why don’t you tell me the whole thing?” he asked. “You’ve been in
trouble all evening, and—you can trust me, you know, because I am a
stranger—because the minute this crazy quarantine is raised I am off to
the Argentine Republic” (perhaps he said Chili) “and because I don’t
know anything at all about you. You see, I have to believe what you tell
me, having no personal knowledge of any of you to go on. Now, tell
me—whom have you hidden in the cellar, beside the policeman?”

“Come,” I said, with sudden resolution, and led the way down the stairs.

He said nothing when he saw Bella, for which I was grateful. She was
sitting at the table, with her arms in front of her, and her head buried
in them. And then I saw she was asleep. Her hat and veil lay beside her,
and she had taken off her coat and draped it around her. She had
rummaged out a cold pheasant and some salad, and had evidently had a
little supper. Supper and a nap, while I worried myself gray-headed
about her!

“I wouldn’t rouse her,” Mr. Harbison said, as if the situation were
quite ordinary. “If she can sleep like that where she is, let her alone.
There are only enough beds upstairs, I understand.”

She began to rouse at that. She lifted her head with her eyes shut, and
then opened them one at a time, blinked, and sat up. She didn’t see him
at first.

“You wretch!” she said ungratefully, after she had yawned. “Do you know
what time it is? And that——” Then she saw Mr. Harbison and stood
glaring at him.

“It’s like this,” I began, to him. “You see, we—I—— Bella, this is
Mr. Harbison, and he is going to help you out.” Then Bella came to my
help.

“I am Miss Knowles,” she said loftily (of course the court gave her back
her name), “and I stopped in to-night, thinking the house was empty, to
see about a—a butler. Unfortunately, the house was quarantined just at
that time, and—here I am. Surely there cannot be any harm in helping me
to get out?” (pleading tone). “I have not been exposed to any contagion,
and in the exhausted state of my health the confinement would be
positively dangerous.”

She rolled her eyes at him, and I could see she was making an
impression. Of course she was free. She had a perfect right to marry
again, but I will say this: Bella is a lot better looking by electric
light than she is the next morning.

The upshot of it was that the gentleman who built bridges and looked
down on society from a lofty, lonely pinnacle agreed to help one of the
most gleaming members of the aforesaid society to outwit the law.

It took about fifteen minutes to quiet the policeman. Nobody ever knew
what Mr. Harbison did to him, but for twenty-four hours he was quite
tractable. He changed after that, but that comes later in the story.
Anyhow, the Harbison man went upstairs and came down with a Bagdad
curtain and cushion to match, and took them into the furnace-room, and
came out and locked the door behind him, and then we were ready for
Bella’s escape.

But there were four special officers and three reporters watching that
house (that was the result of Max Reed’s idiocy). Once, after trying all
the other windows and finding them guarded, we discovered a little bit
of a hole in an out of the way corner that looked like a ventilator and
was covered with a heavy wire screen. No prisoners ever dug their way
out of a dungeon with more energy than we attacked that screen, hacking
at it with kitchen knives, whispering like conspirators, being
scratched, frozen with the cold air one minute and boiling with
excitement the next. And when the wire was cut, and Bella had rolled her
coat up and thrust it through, and was standing on a chair ready to
follow, something that had looked like a barrel outside moved and said,
“Oh, I wouldn’t do that if I were you. It would be certain to be
undignified, and probably it would be unpleasant—later.”

We coaxed and pleaded, and tried to bribe, and that was one of the worst
things we had to endure. For the whole conversation came out the next
afternoon in the paper, with the most awful drawings, and the reporter
said it was the flashing of the jewels we wore that first attracted his
attention. And that brings me back to the robbery.

For when we had crept back to the kitchen, and Bella was fumbling for
her handkerchief to cry into, and the Harbison man was trying to
apologize for the language he had used to the reporter, and I was on the
verge of a nervous chill—well, it was then that Bella forgot all about
crying and jumped and held out her arm.

“My diamond bracelet!” she screeched. “Look, I’ve lost it.”

Well, we went over every inch of that basement, until I knew every crack
in the flooring, every spot of the cement. And Bella was nasty, and said
she had never seen that part of the house in such condition, and that if
I had acted like a sane person and put her out, when she had no business
there at all, she would have had her freedom and her bracelet, and that
if we were playing a joke on her (as if we felt like joking!) we would
please give her the bracelet and let her go and die in a corner; she
felt very queer.

At half past four o’clock we gave up.

“It’s gone,” I said. “I don’t believe you wore it here. No one could
have taken it. There wasn’t a soul in this part of the house.”

At five o’clock we put her to sleep in the den. She was in a fearful
temper, and I was glad enough to be able to shut the door on her. Tom
Harbison—that was his name—helped me to creep upstairs, and wanted to
get me a glass of ale to make me sleep. But I said it would be of no
use, as I had to get up and get the breakfast. The last thing he said
was that the policeman seemed above the average in intelligence, and
perhaps we could train him to do plain cooking and dish-washing.

I did not go to sleep at once. I lay on the chintz-covered divan in
Bella’s dressing-room, and stared at the picture of her with the violets
underneath. I couldn’t see what there was about Bella to inspire such
undying devotion, but I had to admit that she had looked handsome that
night, and that the Harbison man had certainly been impressed.

At seven o’clock Jimmy Wilson came up and pounded at my door, and I
could have choked him joyfully. I dragged myself to the door and opened
it, and then I heard excited voices. Everybody seemed to be up but Aunt
Selina, and they were all talking at once.

Anne Brown’s pearl collar had been stolen from the dressing-table in her
room!

When we had all gathered in Anne’s room (and we were a strange-looking
lot. I gave my word to the others I would _not_ put in the story what we
wore that day until our trunks came) Jimmy held up his hand, and
signified he wanted to say something.

“It’s like this,” he said: “until this thing is cleared up, for Heaven’s
sake let’s try to be sane! If every fellow thinks the other fellow did
it, this house will be a nice little hell to live in. And if
anybody”—here he glared around—“if anybody has got funny and is hiding
those jewels, I want to say that he’d better speak up now. Later, it
won’t be so easy for him. It’s a mighty poor joke.”

But nobody spoke.




                                   V.


It was Betty Mercer who said she was hungry, and got them switched from
the delicate subject of which of us was the thief to the quite as
pressing subject of which was to be cook. Aunt Selina had slept quietly
through the whole thing—we learned afterwards that she customarily
slept on her left side, which was on her good ear. We gathered in the
Dallas Brown room, and Jimmy proposed a plan.

“We can have anything sent in that we want,” he suggested speciously,
“and if Dal doesn’t make good with the city fathers, you girls can get
some clothes anyhow. Then, we can have dinner sent from one of the
hotels.”

“Why not all the meals?” Max suggested. “I hope you’re not going to be
small about things, Jimmy.”

“It ought to be easy,” Jim persisted, ignoring the remark, “for nine
reasonably intelligent people to boil eggs and make coffee, which is all
we need for breakfast, with some fruit.”

“Nine of us!” Dallas said wickedly, looking at Tom Harbison. “Why nine
of us? I thought Kit here, otherwise known as Bella, was going to show
off her housewifely skill.”

It ended, however, with Mr. Harbison writing out a lot of slips, cook,
scullery-maid, chamber-maid, parlor-maid, furnace, and butler, and as
that left two people over—we didn’t count Aunt Selina—he added another
furnace and a trained nurse. Betty Mercer drew the trained nurse slip,
and of course she was delighted. It seems funny now to look back and
think what a dreadful time she really had (Aunt Selina took the grippe,
you know, that very day).

It was fate that I should go back to that awful kitchen, for of course
my slip said “cook.” Mr. Harbison was butler, and Max and Dal got the
furnace, although neither of them had ever been any nearer to a bucket
of coal than the coupons on mining stock. Anne got the bedrooms, and
Leila was parlor-maid. It was Jimmy who got the scullery work, but he
was quite crushed by this time and did not protest at all.

Max was in a very bad temper: I suppose he had not had enough sleep—no
one had. But he came over while the lottery was going on and stood over
me and demanded that I stop masquerading as another man’s wife and
generally making a fool of myself—which is the way he put it. And I
knew in my heart he was right, and I hated him for it.

“Why don’t you go and tell him—them?” I asked nastily. “Tell them that,
to be obliging, I have nearly drowned in a sea of lies; tell them that I
am not only not married, but that I never intend to marry. Tell them
that we are a lot of idiots with nothing better to do than to trifle
with strangers within our gates, people who build—I mean, people that
are worth two to our one! Run and tell them.”

He looked at me for a minute, then he turned on his heel and left me. It
looked as though Max might be going to be difficult.

While I was improvising an apron out of a towel, and Anne was pinning a
sheet into a kimona, so she could take off her dinner gown and still be
proper, Dallas harked back to the robbery.

“Anne put the collar in the silver box there,” he said. “I watched her
do it, for I remember thinking it was the sole reminder I had that
Consolidated Traction ever went above thirty-nine.”

Max was looking around the room, examining the window-locks and
whistling between his teeth. He was in disgrace with every one, for by
that time it was light enough to see three reporters with cameras
waiting across the street for enough light to snap the house, and
everybody knew that it was Max and his idiotic wager that had done it.
He had made two or three conciliatory remarks, but no one would speak to
him. His antics were so queer, however, that we were all watching him,
and when he had felt over the rug with his hands, and raised the edges,
and tried to lift out the chair-seats, and had shaken out Dal’s shoes
(he said people often hid things and then forgot all about it), he made
a proposition.

“If you will take that infernal furnace from around my neck, I’ll
undertake to find either the jewels or show up the thief,” he said
quietly. And of course, with all the people in the house under
suspicion, every one had to hail the suggestion with joy, and offer his
assistance, and Jimmy had to take Max’s share of the furnace. So they
took the scullery slip downstairs to the policeman.

“In the first place,” Max said, standing importantly in the middle of
the room, “we retired between two and three—nearer three. So the theft
occurred between three and six-thirty, when Anne woke up. Was your door
locked, Dal?”

“No. The door into the hall was, but the door into the dressing-room was
open for ventilation, and we found the door from there into the hall
open this morning.”

“From three until seven,” Max repeated. “Was any one out of his room
during that time?”

“I was,” said Tom Harbison promptly, from the foot of the bed. “I was
prowling all around somewhere about four, searching”—he glanced at
me—“for a drink of water. But as I don’t know a pearl from a glass
bead, I hope you exonerate me.”

Everybody laughed and said “Of course,” and “Sure, old man,” and changed
the subject quickly. While that excitement was on, I got Jim to one side
and told him about Bella. His good-natured face was radiant at first.

“I suppose she _did_ come to see Takahiro, eh, Kit?” he asked
delicately. “She didn’t say anything about me?”

“Nothing good. She said the house was in a disgraceful condition,” I
said heartlessly. “And her diamond bracelet was stolen while she took a
nap on the kitchen table”—he groaned—“and—oh, Jim, you are such a
goose! If I could only manage my own affairs the way I could my
friends’? She’s too sure of you, Jimmy. She knows you adore her,
and—how brutal could you be, Jim?”

He eyed me thoughtfully.

“Fair,” he said. “I may have undiscovered depths of brutality that I
have never had occasion to use. However, I might try. Why?”

“Listen, Jim,” I urged. “It was always Bella who did things here: she
managed the house, she tyrannized over her friends, and she bullied you.
Yes, she did. Now she’s here, without your invitation, and she has to
stay. It’s your turn to bully, to dictate terms, to be coldly civil or
politely rude. Make her furious at you. If she is jealous, so much the
better.”

“How far would you sacrifice yourself on the altar of friendship?” he
asked.

“You may pay me all the attention you like, in public,” I replied, and
together we went to Bella.

There was an ominous pause when we went into the den. Bella was sitting
by the register, with her furs on, and after one glance over her
shoulder at us, she looked away again without speaking.

“Bella,” Jim said appealingly. And then I pinched his arm, and he drew
himself up and looked properly outraged.

“Bella,” he said, coldly this time, “I can’t imagine why you have put
yourself in this ridiculous position, but since you have——”

She turned on him like a fury.

“Put _myself_ in this position!” She was frantic. “It’s a plot, a
wretched trick of yours, this quarantine, to keep me here.”

Jim gasped, but I gave him a warning glance, and he swallowed hard.

“On the contrary, Bella,” he said, with maddening quiet, “I would be the
last person in the world to wish to perpetuate an indiscretion of yours.
For it was hardly discreet, was it, to visit a bachelor establishment
alone at eleven o’clock at night? As far as my plotting to keep you here
is concerned, I assure you that nothing could be further from my mind.
Our paths were to be two parallel lines that never touch.” He looked at
me for approval, and Bella was choking.

“You are worse than I ever thought you,” she stormed. “I thought you
were only a—a fool. Now I know you—for a brute!”

Well, it ended by Jim graciously permitting Bella to remain—there being
nothing else to do—and by his magnanimously agreeing to keep her real
identity from Aunt Selina and Mr. Harbison, and to break the news of her
presence to Anne and the rest. It created a sensation beside which
Anne’s pearls faded away, although they came to the front again soon
enough.

The Harbison man came down while I was standing hopelessly in front of
the gas range, and showed me about it.

“I don’t know that I ever saw one,” he said cheerfully, “but I know the
theory. Likewise, by the same token, this teakettle, set on the flame,
will boil. That is not theory, however. That is early knowledge. ‘Polly,
put the kettle on; we’ll all take tea.’ Look at that, Mrs. Wilson. I
didn’t fight bacilli with boiled water at Chickamauga for nothing.”

And then he let out the policeman and brought him into the kitchen. He
was a large man, and his face was a curious mixture of amazement, alarm,
and dignity. No doubt we did look queer, still in parts of our evening
things and I in the white silk and lace petticoat that belonged under my
gown, with a yellow and black pajama coat of Jimmy’s as a sort of
breakfast jacket.

“This is Officer Flannigan,” Mr. Harbison said. “I explained our
unfortunate position earlier in the morning, and he is prepared to
accept our hospitality. Flannigan, every person in this house has got to
work, as I also explained to you. You are appointed dish-washer and
scullery maid.”

The policeman looked dazed. Then, slowly, like dawn over a sleeping
lake, a light of comprehension grew in his face.

“Sure,” he said, laying his helmet on the table. “I’ll be glad to be
doing anything I can to help. Me and Mrs. Wilson—we used to be friends.
It’s many the time I’ve opened the carriage door for her, and she with
her head in the air, and for all that, the pleasant smile. When any one
around her was having a party and wanted a special officer, it was Mrs.
Wilson that always said, ‘Get Flannigan, Officer Timothy Flannigan. He’s
your man.’”

My heart had been going lower and lower. So he knew Bella, and he knew I
was not Bella, although he had not grasped the fact that I was usurping
her place. And the odious Harbison man sat on the table and swung his
feet.

“Don’t you think you had better attend to the table?” I asked coldly,
and to my immense relief he went at once. Sounds of banging silver came
down the stairs, and once the crash of broken china. And Officer Timothy
Flannigan ground the coffee and gave his opinion of the Board of Health
in no stinted terms. As for me, I burned my fingers and the toast, and
felt myself growing hot and cold, for I was going to be found out as
soon as Flannigan grasped the situation.

Then, of course, I did the thing that caused me so much trouble later. I
put down the egg poacher—at least, the Harbison man said it was a
poacher—and went over and stood in front of the policeman.

“I don’t suppose you will understand—exactly,” I said, “but—but if
anything occurs to—to make you think I am not—that things are not what
they seem to be—I mean, what I say they are—you will understand that
it is a joke, won’t you? A joke, you know.”

Yes, that was what I said. I know it sounds like a raving delirium, but
when Max came down and squizzled some bacon, as he said, and told
Flannigan about the robbery, and how, whether it was a joke or deadly
earnest, somebody in the house had Anne’s pearls, that wretched
policeman winked at me solemnly over Max’s shoulder. Oh, it was awful!

And, to add to my discomfort, the most unpleasant ideas _would_ obtrude
themselves. _What_ was Mr. Harbison doing on the first floor of the
house that night? Ice water, he said. But there had been plenty of water
in the studio! And he had told me it was the furnace!




                                  VI.
     (_Letters found in the post-box after lifting of quarantine._)


From Thomas Harbison, late Engineer of Bridges, Peruvian Trunk Lines,
South America, to Henry Llewellyn, c/o Union Nitrate Company, Iquique,
Chili.

    DEAR OLD MAN:

    I think I was fully a week trying to drive out of my mind my
    last glimpse of you with your sickly grin, pretending to be
    tickled to pieces that the only other white man within two
    hundred miles of your shack was going on a holiday. You old
    bluffer! I used to hang over the rail of the steamer, on the way
    up, and see you standing as I left you beside the car with its
    mule and the Indian driver, and behind you a million miles of
    soul-destroying pampa. Never mind, Jack; I sent yesterday by
    mail steamer the cigarettes, pipes and tobacco, canned goods and
    poker chips. Put in some magazines, too, and the collars. Don’t
    know about the ties—guess it won’t matter down there.

    Nothing happened on the trip. One of the engines broke down
    three days out, and I spent all my time below-decks for
    forty-eight hours. Chief engineer raving with D. T.’s. Got the
    engine fixed in record time, and haven’t got my hands clean yet.
    It was bully.

    With this I send the papers, which will tell you how I happen to
    be here, and why I have leisure to write you three days after
    landing. If the situation were not so ridiculous, it would be
    maddening. Here I am, off for a holiday and congratulating
    myself that I am foot free and heart free—yes, my friend, heart
    free!—here I am, shut in the house of a man I never saw until
    last night, and wouldn’t care if I never saw again, with a lot
    of people who never heard of me, who are almost equally vague
    about South America, who play as hard at bridge as I ever worked
    at building one (forgive this, won’t you? The novelty has gone
    to my head), and who belong to the very class of extravagant,
    luxury-loving, non-producing parasites (isn’t that what we
    called them?) that you and I used to revile from our lofty
    Andean pinnacle.

    To come down to earth: here we are, six women and five men,
    including a policeman, not a servant in the house, and no one
    who knows how to do anything. They are really immensely
    interesting, those people: they all know each other very well,
    and it is “Jimmy” here, and “Dal” there—Dallas Brown, who went
    to India with me; you remember my speaking of him—and they are
    good-natured, too, except at meal-times. The little hostess,
    Mrs. Wilson, took over the cooking, and, although luncheon was
    better than breakfast, the food still leaves much to the
    imagination.

    I wish you could see this Mrs. Wilson, Hal. You would change a
    whole lot of your ideas. She is a thoroughbred, sure enough, and
    of course some of her beauty is the result of the exquisite care
    about which you and I—still from our Andean pinnacle—used to
    rant. But the fact is, she is more than that. She has fire, and
    pluck, no end. If you could have seen her this morning, standing
    in front of a cold kitchen range, determined to conquer it, and
    had seen the tilt of her chin when I offered to take over the
    cooking—you needn’t grin; I can cook, and you know it—you
    would understand what I mean. It was so clear that she was
    paralyzed with fright at the idea of getting breakfast, and
    equally clear that she meant to do it. By the way, I have
    learned that her name was McNair before she married this
    would-be artist, Wilson, and that she is a daughter of the
    McNair who financed the Callao branch!

    I have not met the others so intimately. There are two sisters
    named Mercer, inclined to be noisy—they are playing roulette in
    the next room now. One is small and dark, almost Hebraic in
    type, named Laura and called Lollie. The other, larger, very
    blonde and languishing, and with a decided preference for
    masculine society, even, saving the mark, mine! Dallas Brown’s
    wife, good-looking, smokes cigarettes when I am not around—they
    all do, except Mrs. Wilson. Then there is a maiden aunt, who is
    ill to-day with grippe and excitement, and a Miss Knowles,
    called Bella, who came for a moment last night to see Mrs.
    Wilson, was caught in the quarantine (see papers), and, after
    hiding all night in the basement, is sulking all day in her
    room. Her presence created an excitement out of all proportion
    to the apparent cause.

    From the fact that I have reason to know that my artist-host and
    his beautiful wife are on bad terms, and from the significant
    glances with which the announcement of Miss Knowles’s presence
    was met, the state of affairs seems rather clear. Wilson
    impresses me as a spineless sort, anyhow, and when the lady of
    the basement shut herself away from the rest to-day and I
    happened on “Jimmy,” as they call him, pleading with her through
    the door, I very nearly kicked him down the stairs. Oh, yes,
    I’ll keep out, right enough; it isn’t my affair.

    By the way, after the quarantine and with the policeman locked
    in the furnace-room, a pearl necklace and a diamond bracelet
    were stolen! Just nine of us to divide the suspicion! Upon my
    word, Hal, it’s the queerest situation I ever heard of. Which of
    us did it? I make a guess that not a few of us are fools, but
    which is the knave? The worst of it is, I am the only
    unaccredited member of the household!

    This is more scandal than I ever wrote in my life. Lay it to
    circumscribed environment, and the lack of twenty miles over the
    pampas before breakfast. We have all been disinfected, and the
    officious gentlemen from the Board of Health have taken their
    grins and their formaldehyde and gone. Ye gods, how we cough!

    The Carlton order will go through all right, I think. ’Phoned
    him this morning. If it does, old man, we will take a month in
    September and explore the Mercator property.

    Do you know, Hal, I have been thinking lately that you and I
    stick too close to the grind. Business is all right enough, but
    what’s the use of spending one’s best years succeeding in
    everything except the things that are worth while? I’ll be
    thirty sooner than I care to say, and—oh, well, you won’t
    understand. You’ll sit down there, with the Southern Cross and
    the rest of the infernal astronomical galaxy looking down on
    you, and the Indians chanting in the village, and you will think
    I have grown sentimental. I have not. You and I down there have
    been looking at the world through the reverse end of the glass.
    It’s a bully old world, Hal, and this is God’s part of it.

    Burn this letter after you read it: I suspect it is covered with
    germs. Well, happy days, old man.

                                                    Yours,
                                                                TOM

    P.S. By the way, can’t you spare some of the Indian pottery you
    picked up at Callao? I told Mrs. Wilson about it, and she was
    immensely interested. Send it to this address. Can you get it to
    the next steamer?—T.

From Maxwell Reed to Richard Burton Bagley, University Club, New York.

    DEAR DICK:

    Enclosed find my check for five hundred, as per wager. Possibly
    you were within your rights in protecting your bet in the manner
    you chose, but while I do not wish to be offensive, your
    reporters are damnably so.

                                                    Yours,
                                                       MAXWELL REED

From Officer Flannigan to Mrs. Maggie Flannigan, Erin Street.

    DEAR MAGGIE:

    As soon as you receive this, go down to Mac and tell him the
    story as I tell you hear. Tell him I was walkin’ my beat, and
    I’d been afther seein’ Jimmy Alverini about doin’ the right
    thing for Mac on Monday, at the poles, when I seen a man hangin’
    suspicious around this house, which is Mr. Wilson’s, on
    Ninety-fifth. And av coorse, afther chasin’ the man a mile or
    more, I lose him, which was not my fault. So I go back to the
    Wilson house, and tell them to be careful about closin’ up fer
    the night, and while I’m standin’ in the hall, with all the
    swells around me, sparklin’ with jewels, the Board of Health
    sends a man to lock us all in, because the Jap that’s been
    waiter has took the scarlet fever and gone to the hospitle. I
    stood me ground. I sez, sez I, you can’t shtop an officer in
    pursute av his duty, I rayfuse to be shut in. Be shure to tell
    Mac that.

    So here I am, and like to be for a month. Tell Mac there’s four
    votes shut up tight here, and I can get them for him, if he can
    stop this monkey business.

    Then go over to the Dago Church on Webster Avenue and put a
    dollar in Saint Anthony’s box. He’ll see me out of this scrape,
    right enough. Do it at once. Now remember, go to Mac first: may
    be you can get the dollar from him, and mind what you tell him.

                                             Your husband,
                                                      TIM FLANNIGAN

From Bella Knowles (ex-Wilson) to Mr. Reginald Barry Wolfe, Palm Beach,
Fla.

    DEAR REGGIE:

    I’ve been thinking it over, Reggie, and I find I just can’t. I’m
    a wretch, I know. You cannot think any worse of me than I do of
    myself. I honestly thought I meant it when I said “Yes,” but I
    haven’t the courage after all. Now, don’t be silly enough to
    regret me, Reg. It’s the best thing that ever happened to you;
    you will find a nice girl who has some illusions left, and who
    thinks you are perfect—you know I don’t—and you will be a
    great deal happier than you deserve to be, and not half as much
    so as I wish.

         Ever faithfully—ought this to be “faithless”?
                                           BELLA JEANNETTE KNOWLES

    P.S. How is the chestnut mare Toddy wrote me about? Have her
    looked over and let me know, will you? One has to watch
    Toddy.—B.

From Miss Katherine McNair to her mother, Mrs. Theodore McNair, Hotel
Hamilton, Bermuda.

    DEAREST MOTHER:

    I hope you will get this before you read the papers, and when
    you _do_ read them, you are not to get excited and worried. I am
    as well as can be, and a great deal safer than I ever remember
    to have been in my life. We are quarantined, a lot of us, in Jim
    Wilson’s house, because his irreproachable Jap did a very
    reproachable thing—took scarlet fever. Now read on before you
    get excited. _His room has been fumigated._ The danger is nil. I
    am well and happy. I can’t be killed in a railway wreck or
    smashed when the car skids. Unless I drown myself in my bath, or
    jump through a window, positively nothing can happen me. So
    gather up all your maternal anxieties and cast them to the
    Bermuda sharks.

    Anne Brown is here—see the papers for list—and if she cannot
    play propriety, Jimmy’s Aunt Selina can. In fact, she doesn’t
    play at it: she works. I have telephoned Lizette for some
    clothes—enough for a couple of weeks, although Dallas promises
    to get us out sooner. Now, dear, do go ahead and have a nice
    time; on no account come home. You could only have the carriage
    stop in front of the house, and wave to me through a window.

    Mother, I want you to do something for me. The Manning boy is
    down there, and—this is awfully delicate, Mummy—but he’s a
    nice boy, and I thought I liked him. I guess you know he has
    been rather attentive. Now, I _do_ like him, Mumsy, but not the
    way I thought I did, and I want you to—very gently, of
    course—to discourage him a little. You know how I mean. He’s a
    dear boy, but I am so tired of people who don’t know anything
    but horses and motors.

    And, oh, yes,—do you remember a girl named Lucille Mellon, who
    was at school with you in Rome? And that she married a man named
    Harbison? Well, her son is here! He builds railroads and bridges
    and things, and he even built himself an automobile down in
    South America, because he couldn’t afford to buy one, and burned
    wood in it! Wood! Think of it!

    I wired father in Chicago for fear he would come rushing home.
    The picture in the paper of the face at the basement window is
    supposed to be Mr. Harbison, but of course it isn’t any more
    like him than mine is like me.

    Anne Brown mislaid her pearl collar when she took it off last
    night, and has fussed herself into a sick headache. She declares
    it was stolen! Some of the people are playing bridge, Betty
    Mercer is doing a cake-walk to the Rhapsodie Hongroise—Jim has
    no every day music—and the telephone is ringing. We have
    received enough flowers for a funeral—somebody sent Lollie a
    Gates Ajar, only with the gate shut!

    There are no servants—think of it, Mummy. I wish you had made
    me learn to cook. Mr. Harbison has shown me a little—he was a
    soldier in the Spanish war—but we girls are a terribly ignorant
    lot, Mummy, about the real things of life.

    Now don’t worry. It is more sport than camping in the
    Adirondacks, and not nearly so damp.

                                     Your loving daughter,
                                                          KATHERINE

    P. S. South America must be wonderful. Why can’t we put the
    _Gadfly_ in commission, and take a coasting trip this summer? It
    is a shame to own a yacht and never use it.—K.

                         (_Sent by messenger._)

    Mr. Alex. Dodds, City Editor, Mail and Star,

    DEAR D.

    Can’t get a picture. Have waited seven hours. They have closed
    the shutters.

                                                             MCCORD
       (_By return messenger—written on back of previous note._)
                           Watch the roof.—D.




                                  VII.
                   _Resuming Miss McNair’s Narrative_


The most charitable thing would be to say nothing about that first day.
We were baldly brutal—that’s the only word for it. And Mr. Harbison,
with his beautiful courtesy—the really sincere kind—tried to patch up
one peace after another and failed. He rose superbly to the occasion,
and made something that he called a South American goulash for luncheon,
although it was too salty, and every one was thirsty the rest of the
day.

Bella was horrid, of course. She locked herself in the dressing-room—it
had been assigned to me, but that made no difference to Bella—and did
her nails, and took three different baths, and refused to come to the
table. And of course Jimmy was wild, and said she would starve. But I
said, “Very well, let her starve.” Not a tray left my kitchen. It was a
comfort to have her shut up there anyhow: it postponed the time when she
would come face to face with Flannigan.

While Betty Mercer was fussing with Aunt Selina—she was the nurse, you
remember—trying to fix her pillows to suit her, and scalding her with a
hot water bottle, and being called everything unpleasant, Max led a
search of the house. He said the necklace and the bracelet must be
hidden somewhere, and that no crevice was too small to neglect.

We made a formal search all together, except Aunt Selina, and we found a
lot of things in different places that Jim said had been missing since
the year one. But no jewels—nothing even suggesting a jewel was found.
We had explored the entire house, every cupboard, every chest, even the
insides of the couches and the pockets of Jim’s clothes—which he
resented bitterly—and found nothing, and I must say the situation was
growing rather strained. Some one had taken the jewels; they hadn’t
walked away.

It was Flannigan who suggested the roof, and as we had tried every place
else, we climbed there. Of course we didn’t find anything, but after all
day in the house with the shutters closed on account of reporters, the
air was glorious. It was February, but quite mild and sunny, and we
could look down over Riverside Drive and the Hudson, and even recognize
people we knew on horseback and in cars. It was a pathetic joy, and we
lined up along the parapet and watched the motor-boats racing on the
river, and tried to feel that we were in the world, as well as of it,
but it was very hard.

Betty Mercer had been making tea for Aunt Selina, and fussing a lot
about it. Of course, when she heard us up there, she followed, tray and
all, and we drank Aunt Selina’s tea and had the first really nice time
of the day. Bella had come up, too, but she was still stand-offish and
queer, and she stood leaning against a chimney and staring out over the
river. After a little Mr. Harbison put down his cup and went to her, and
they talked quite confidentially for a long time. I thought it bad taste
in Bella, under the circumstances, after snubbing Dallas and Max, and of
course treating Jim like the dirt under her feet, to turn right around
and be lovely to Mr. Harbison. Of course I was thinking of Jim: it was
hard for him.

Max came and sat down beside me, and Flannigan, who had been sent down
for more cups, passed the tea, putting the tray on top of the chimney.
Jim was sitting grumpily on the ground, with his feet folded under him,
playing Canfield in the shadow of the water tank, buying the deck out of
one pocket and putting his winnings in the other. He was watching Bella,
too, and she knew it, and she strained a point to captivate Mr.
Harbison. Any one could see that.

And that was the picture that came out in the next morning’s papers,
tea-cups, cards, and all. For when some one looked up, there were four
newspaper photographers on the roof of the next house, and they had the
impertinence to thank us!

Flannigan had seen Bella by that time, but as he still didn’t understand
the situation, things were just the same. But his manner to me puzzled
me; whenever he came near me he winked prodigiously, and during all the
search he kept one eye on me, and seemed to be amused about something.

When the rest had gone down to dress for dinner, which was being sent
in, thank goodness, I still sat on the parapet and watched the darkening
river. I felt terribly lonely, all at once, and sad. There wasn’t any
one any nearer than father, in the West, or mother, in Bermuda, who
really cared a rap whether I sat on that parapet all night or not, or
who would really be sorry if I leaped over onto the dirty bricks of the
next-door yard—not that I meant to, of course.

The lights came out across the river, and made purple and yellow streaks
on the water, and one of the motor-boats came panting back to the yacht
club, coughing and gasping as if it had overdone. Down on the street
automobiles were starting and stopping, cabs rolling, doors slamming,
all the maddening, delightful bustle of people who are foot-free, to
dine out, to dance, to go to the theatre, to do any of the thousand
possibilities of a long February evening. And above them I sat on a roof
and cried. Yes, cried.

I was roused by some one coughing just behind me, and I tried to
straighten my face before I turned. It was Flannigan, his double row of
brass buttons gleaming in the twilight.

“Excuse me, miss,” he said affably, “but the boy from the hotel has left
the dinner on the doorstep and run, the cowardly little divil! What’ll I
do with it? I went to Mrs. Wilson, but she says it’s no concern of
hers.” He was evidently bewildered.

“You’d better keep it warm, Flannigan,” I replied. “You needn’t wait;
I’m coming.” But he did not go.

“If—if you’ll excuse me, miss,” he said, “don’t you think ye’d bether
tell ’em?”

“Tell them what?”

“The whole thing—the joke,” he said confidentially, coming closer.
“It’s been great sport, now, hasn’t it? But I’m afraid they will get on
to it soon, and—some of them might not be agreeable. A pearl necklace
is a pearl necklace, miss, and the lady’s wild.”

“What do you mean?” I gasped. “You don’t think—why, Flannigan——”

He merely grinned at me and thrust his hand down in his pocket. When he
brought it up he had Bella’s bracelet on his palm, glittering in the
faint light.

“Where did you get it?” Between relief and the absurdity of the thing, I
was almost hysterical. But Flannigan did not give me the bracelet;
instead, it struck me his tone was suddenly severe.

“Now look here, miss,” he said: “you’ve played your trick, and you’ve
had your fun; the Lord knows it’s only folks like you would play April
fool jokes with a fortune! If you’re the sinsible little woman you look
to be, you’ll put that pearl collar on the coal in the basement
to-night, and let me find it.”

“I haven’t got the pearl collar,” I protested. “I think you are crazy.
Where did you get that bracelet?”

He edged away from me, as if he expected me to snatch it from him and
run, but he was still trying in an elephantine way to treat the matter
as a joke.

“I found it in a drawer in the pantry,” he said, “among the dirty linen.
And if you’re as smart as I think you are, I’ll find the pearl collar
there in the morning—and nothing said, miss.”

So there I was, suspected of being responsible for Anne’s pearl collar,
as if I had not enough to worry me before. Of course I could have called
them all together and told them, and made them explain to Flannigan what
I had really meant by my delirious speech in the kitchen. But that would
have meant telling the whole ridiculous story to Mr. Harbison, and
having him think us all mad, and me a fool.

In all that overcrowded house there was only one place where I could be
miserable with comfort. So I stayed on the roof, and cried a little, and
then became angry and walked up and down, and clenched my hands and
babbled helplessly. The boats on the river were yellow, horizontal
streaks through my tears, and an early searchlight sent its shaft like a
tangible thing in the darkness, just over my head. Then, finally, I
curled down in a corner with my arms on the parapet, and the lights
became more and more prismatic and finally formed themselves into a
circle that was Bella’s bracelet, and that kept winding around and
around on something flat and not over-clean, that was Flannigan’s palm.

I was roused by some one walking across the roof, the cracking of tin
under feet, and a comfortable and companionable odor of tobacco. I moved
a very little, and then I could see it was a man—the height and
erectness told me which man. And just at that instant he saw me.

“Good Lord!” he ejaculated, and throwing his cigarette away he came
across quickly. “Why, Mrs. Wilson, what in the world are you doing here?
I thought—they said——”

“That I was sulking?” I finished disagreeably. “Perhaps I am. In fact,
I’m quite sure of it.”

“You were not,” he said severely. “You have been asleep, in a February
night, in the open air, with less clothing on than I wear in the
tropics. Your arms are not half covered.”

I had got up by this time, refusing his help, and, because my feet were
numb, I sat down on the parapet for a moment. Oh, I knew what I looked
like—one of those “Valley of the Nile After a Flood” pictures.

“There is one thing about you that is comforting,” I sniffed. “You said
precisely that same thing to me at three o’clock this morning. You never
startle me by saying anything unexpected.”

He took a step toward me, and even in the dusk I could see that he was
looking down at me oddly. All my bravado faded away and there was a
queerish ringing in my ears.

“I would like to!” he said tensely. “I would like, this minute—I’m a
fool, Mrs. Wilson,” he finished miserably. “I ought to be drawn and
quartered, but when I see you like this I—I get crazy. If you say the
word, I’ll—I’ll go down and——” He clenched his fist.

It was reprehensible, of course, he saw that in an instant, for he shut
his teeth over something that sounded very fierce, and strode away from
me, to stand looking out over the river, with his hands thrust in his
pockets. Of course the thing I should have done was to ignore it
altogether, but he was so uncomfortable, so chastened, that, feline,
feminine, whatever the instinct is, I could not let him go. I had been
so wretched myself.

“What would you say?” I called over to him. He did not speak. “Would you
tell me that I am a silly child for sulking?” No reply; he struck a
match. “Or would you preach a little sermon about people—women—loving
their husbands?”

He grunted savagely under his breath.

“Be quite honest,” I pursued relentlessly. “Say that we are a lot of
barbarians, say that because my—because Jimmy treats me
outrageously—oh, he does; any one can see that—and because I loathe
him—and any one can tell that—why don’t you say you are shocked to the
depths?” I was a little shocked myself by that time, but I couldn’t
stop, having started.

He came over to me, white-faced and towering, and he had the audacity to
grip my arm and stand me on my feet, like a bad child—which I was, I
dare say.

“Don’t!” he said, in a husky, very pained voice. “You are only talking:
you don’t mean it. It isn’t _you_. You know you care, or else why are
you crying up here? And don’t do it again—don’t do—it—again—or I
will——”

“You will—what?”

“Make a fool of myself, as I have now,” he finished grimly. And then he
stalked away and left me there alone, completely bewildered, to find my
way down in the dark.

I groped along in the darkness, holding to the rail, for the staircase
to the roof was very steep, and I went slowly. Half way down the stairs
there was a tiny landing, and I stopped. I could have sworn I heard Mr.
Harbison’s footsteps far below, growing fainter. I even smiled a little,
there in the dark, although I had been rather profoundly shaken. The
next instant I knew I had been wrong: some one was on the landing with
me. I could hear short, sharp breathing, and then——

I am not sure that I struggled; in fact, I don’t believe I did—I was
too limp with amazement. The creature, to have lain in wait for me like
that! And he was brutally strong: he caught me to him fiercely, and held
me there, close, and he kissed me—not once or twice, but a half-dozen
times, long kisses that filled me with hot shame for him, for myself,
that I had—liked him. The roughness of his coat bruised my cheek: I
loathed him. And then some one came whistling along the hall below, and
he pushed me from him and stood listening, breathing in long, gasping
breaths.

I ran: when my shaky knees would hold me, I ran. I wanted to hide my hot
face, my disgust, my disillusion; I waited to put my head in mother’s
lap and cry; I wanted to die, or be ill, so I need never see him again.
Perversely enough, I did none of those things. With my face still
flaming, with burning eyes and hands that shook, I made a belated
evening toilette and went slowly, haughtily, down the stairs. My hands
were like ice, but I was consumed with rage. Oh, I would show him—that
this was New York, not Iquique; that the roof was not his Andean
table-land.

Every one elaborately ignored my absence from dinner. The Dallas Browns,
Max, and Lollie were at bridge, Jim was alone in the den, walking the
floor and biting at an unlighted cigar; Betty had returned to Aunt
Selina, and was hysterical, they said, and Flannigan was in deep
dejection because I had missed my dinner.

“Betty is making no end of a row,” Max said, looking up from his game,
“because the old lady upstairs insists on chloroform liniment. Betty
says the smell makes her ill.”

“And she can inhale Russian cigarettes,” Anne said enviously, “and
gasoline fumes, without turning a hair. I call a revoke, Dal: you
trumped spades on the second round.”

Dal flung over three tricks with very bad grace, and Anne counted them
over with maddening deliberation.

“Game and rubber,” she said. “Watch Dal, Max; he will cheat in the score
if he can. Kit, don’t have another clam while I am in this house. I have
eaten so many lately my waist rises and falls with the tide.”

“You have a stunning color, Kit,” Lollie said. “You are really quite
superb. Who made that gown?”

“Where have you been hiding, _du kleine_?” Max whispered, under cover of
showing me the evening paper, with a photograph of the house and a cross
at the cellar window where we had tried to escape. “If one day in the
house with you, Kit, puts me in this condition, what will a month do?”

From beyond the curtain of a sort of alcove, lighted with a red-shaded
lamp, came a hum of conversation, Bella’s cool, even tones and a heavy
masculine voice. They were laughing; I could feel my chin go up. He was
not even hiding his shame in a corner.

“Max,” I asked, while the others clamored for him and the game, “has any
one been up through the house since dinner? Any of the men?”

He looked at me curiously.

“Only Harbison,” he replied promptly. “Jim has been eating his heart out
in the den ever since dinner, Dal played the Sonata Apassionata
backwards on the pianola—he wanted to put through one of Anne’s
lingerie waists, on a wager that it would play a tune; I played craps
with Lollie Mercer, myself, and Flannigan has been washing dishes. Why?”

Well, that was conclusive, anyhow. I had had a faint hope that it might
have been a joke, although it had borne all the evidences of sincerity,
certainly. But it was past doubting now: he had lain in wait for me at
the landing, and had kissed me, _me_, when he thought I was Jimmy’s
wife. Oh, I must have been very light, very contemptible, if that was
what he thought of me!

I went into the library and got a book, but it was impossible to read,
with Jimmy lying on the couch giving vent to something between a sigh
and a groan every few minutes. About eleven the cards stopped, and Bella
said she would read palms. She began with Mr. Harbison, because she
declared he had a wonderful hand, full of possibilities: she said he
should have been a great inventor or a playwright, and that his attitude
to women was one of homage, respect, almost reverence. He had the
courage to look at me, and if a glance could have killed he would have
withered away.

When Jimmy proffered _his_ hand, she looked at it icily. Of course she
could not refuse, with Mr. Harbison looking on.

“Rather negative,” she said coldly. “The lines are obscured by cushions
of flesh; no heart line at all, mentality small, self-indulgence and
irritability very marked.”

That was all I heard, for at that moment Betty burst into the room like
a cyclone, only to collapse into a chair. “She’s a mean, cantankerous
old woman!” she declared, feeling for her handkerchief. “You can take
care of your own Aunt Selina, Jim Wilson. I shall never go near her
again.”

“What did you do? Poison her?” Dallas asked with interest.

“Got—got camphor in her eyes!” snuffled Betty. “You never—heard such a
noise. I wouldn’t be a trained nurse for anything in the world.”

“You’re not going to give her up, are you, Betty?” Jim asked
imploringly. But Betty was, and said so plainly.

“Anyhow, she won’t have me back,” she finished, “and she has sent
for—guess!”

“Have mercy!” Max cried, dropping to his knees. “Oh, fair ministering
angel, she has not sent for me!”

“No,” Betty said maliciously. “She wants Bella—she’s crazy about her.”




                                 VIII.


Really, I have left Aunt Selina rather out of it, but she was important
as a cause, not as a result, at least at first; she came out strong
later. I believe she was a very nice old woman, with strong likes and
prejudices, which she was perfectly willing to pay for. At least, I only
presume she had likes; I know she had prejudices.

Nobody ever understood why Bella consented to take Betty’s place with
Aunt Selina. As for me, I was too much engrossed with my own affairs to
pay the invalid much attention. Once or twice during the day I had
stopped in to see her, and had been received frigidly and with marked
disapproval. I was in disgrace, of course, after the scene in the
dining-room the night before. I had stood like a naughty child, just
inside the door, and replied meekly when she said the pillows were
over-stuffed, and why didn’t I have the linen slips rinsed in starch
water? She laid the blame for her illness on my heartless conduct of the
night before, and she had made Jim read to her part of the afternoon
from a book she carried with her, “Coals of Fire on the Domestic
Hearth,” marking places for me to read.

She sent for me that night, just as I had taken off my gown, so I threw
on a _liseuse_, and went in. To my horror, Jim was already there. At a
gesture from Aunt Selina, he closed the door into the hall and tiptoed
back beside the bed, where he sat staring at the figures on the silk
comfort.

Aunt Selina’s first words were:

“Where is that flibberty-gibbet?”

Jim looked at me.

“She means Betty,” I explained. “She has gone to bed, I think.”

“Don’t—let—her—in—this—room—again,” she said, with awful emphasis.
“She is an infamous creature.”

“Oh, come now, Aunt Selina,” Jim broke in; “she’s foolish perhaps, but
she’s a nice little thing.” Aunt Selina’s face was a curious study. Then
she raised herself on her elbow and, taking a flat chamois-skin bag from
under the pillow, held it out.

“My cameo breast-pin,” she said solemnly, “my cuff-buttons with gold
rims and storks painted on china in the middle; my watch, that has put
me to bed and got me up for forty years, and my money. Five hundred and
ten dollars and forty cents! Taken with the doors locked under my nose.”
Which was ambiguous, but forcible.

“But, good gracious, Miss Car—Aunt Selina!” I exclaimed, “you don’t
think Betty Mercer took those things?”

“No,” she said grimly; “I think I probably got up in my sleep and
lighted the fire with them, or sent ’em out for a walk.” Then she
stuffed the bag away and sat up resolutely in bed.

“Have you made up?” she demanded, looking from one to the other of us.
“Bella, don’t tell me you still persist in that nonsense.”

“What nonsense?” I asked, getting ready to run.

“That you do not love him.”

“Him?”

“James,” she snapped irritably. “Do you suppose I mean the policeman?”

I looked over at Jimmy. She had got me by the hand, and Jimmy was making
frantic gestures to tell her the whole thing and be done with it. But I
had gone too far. The mill of the gods had crushed me already, and I
didn’t propose to be drawn out hideously mangled and held up as an
example for the next two or three weeks, although it was clear enough
that Aunt Selina disapproved of me thoroughly, and would have been glad
enough to find that no tie save the Board of Health held us together.
And then Bella came in, and you wouldn’t have known her. She had put on
a straight white woollen wrapper, and she had her hair in two long
braids down her back. She looked like a nice, wide-eyed little girl in
her teens, and she had some lobster salad and a glass of port on a tray.
When she saw the situation she put the things down and had the nastiness
to stay and listen.

“I am not blind,” Aunt Selina said, with one eye on the tray, “and you
cannot hide things from me. You two silly children adore each other; I
saw some things last night.”

Bella took a step forward; then she stopped and shrugged her shoulders.
Jim was purple.

“I saw you kiss her in the dining-room, remember that!” Aunt Selina went
on, giving the screw another turn.

It was Bella’s turn to be excited. She gave me one awful stare, then she
fixed her eyes on Jim, who wriggled—simply squirmed.

“Besides,” Aunt Selina went on, “you told me to-day that you loved her.
Don’t deny it, James.”

Bella couldn’t keep quiet another instant. She came over and stood at
the foot of the bed.

“Please don’t excite yourself, _dear_ Miss Caruthers,” she said, in a
voice like ice. “Every one knows he loves her; he simply overflows with
it. It—it is quite a by-word among their friends. They have been
sitting together in a corner all evening.”

Yes, that was what she said; when I had not spoken to Jimmy the whole
time in the den. Bella was cattish, and she was jealous, too. I turned
on my heel and went to the door; then I turned to her, with my hand on
the knob.

“You have been misinformed,” I said coldly. “You cannot possibly know,
having spent three hours in a corner yourself—with Mr. Harbison.” I
abhor jealousy in a woman.

Well, Aunt Selina ate all the lobster salad, and drank the port after
Bella had told her it was beef, iron, and wine, and she slept all night,
and was able to sit up in a chair the next day, and was so infatuated
with Bella that she would not let her out of her sight. But that is
ahead of the story.

At midnight the house was fairly quiet, except for Jim, who kept walking
around the halls because he couldn’t sleep. I got up at last and ordered
him to bed, and he had the audacity to have a grievance with me.

“Look at my situation now!” he said, sitting pensively on a steam
radiator. “Aunt Selina is crazy. I only kissed your hand, anyhow, and I
don’t know why you sat in the den all evening; you might have known that
Bella would notice it. Why couldn’t you leave me alone to my misery?”

“Very well,” I said, much offended. “After this I shall sit with
Flannigan, in the kitchen. He is the only gentleman in the house.”

I left him babbling apologies and went to bed, but I had an
uncomfortable feeling that Bella had been a witness of our conversation,
for the door into Aunt Selina’s room closed softly as I passed.

I knew beforehand that I was not going to sleep. The instant I turned
out the light the nightmare events of the evening ranged themselves in a
procession, or a series of tableaux, one after the other: Flannigan on
the roof, with the bracelet on his palm, looking accusingly at me; Mr.
Harbison and the scene on the roof, with my flippancy; and the result of
that flippancy—the man on the stairs, the arms that held me, the
terrible kisses that had scorched my face—it was awful! And then the
absurd situation across Aunt Selina’s bed, and Bella’s face! Oh, it was
all so ridiculous—my having thought that the Harbison man was a
gentleman, and finding him a cad, and worse. It was excruciatingly
funny. I quite got a headache from laughing; indeed, I laughed until I
found I was crying, and then I knew I was going to have an attack of
strangulated emotion, called hysteria. So I got up and turned on all the
lights, and bathed my face with cologne, and felt better.

But I did not go to sleep. When the hall clock chimed two, I discovered
I was hungry. I had had nothing since luncheon, and even the thirst
following the South American goulash was gone. There was probably
something to eat in the pantry, and if there was not, I was quite equal
to going to the basement.

As it happened, however, I found a very orderly assortment of left-overs
and a pitcher of milk, which had no business there, in the pantry, and
with plenty of light I was not at all frightened.

I ate bread and butter and drank milk, and was fast becoming a rational
person again; I had pulled out one of the drawers part way, and with a
tray across the corner I had improvised a comfortable seat. And then I
noticed that the drawer was full of soiled napkins, and I remembered the
bracelet. I hardly know why I decided to go through the drawer again,
after Flannigan had already done it, but I did. I finished my milk and
then, getting down on my knees, I proceeded systematically to empty the
drawer. I took out perhaps a dozen napkins and as many doilies without
finding anything. Then I took out a large tray cloth, and there was
something on it that made me look further. One corner of it had been
scorched, the clear and well defined imprint of a lighted cigarette or
cigar, a blackened streak that trailed off into a brown and then into
yellow. I had a queer, trembly feeling, as if I were on the brink of a
discovery—perhaps Anne’s pearls, or the cuff-buttons with gold rims and
storks painted on china in the centre. But the only thing I found, down
in the corner of the drawer, was a half-burned cigarette.

To me, it seemed quite enough. It was one of the South American
cigarettes, with a tobacco wrapper instead of paper, that Mr. Harbison
smoked!




                                  IX.


(_Clipped from the Evening Chronicle of February fifth._)

                      ATTEMPT AT ESCAPE FRUSTRATED
                MEMBERS OF THE FOUR HUNDRED DEFY THE LAW

    SPECIAL OFFICER MCCLOUD, on duty at the quarantined house of
    James Wilson, artist and clubman, on Ninety-fifth Street,
    reported this morning a daring attempt at escape, made at 3 A.M.
    It is in this house that some eight or nine members of the smart
    set were imprisoned during the course of a dinner party, when
    the Japanese butler developed scarlet fever. The party shut in
    the house includes Miss Katherine McNair, the daughter of
    Theodore McNair, of the Inter-ocean system; Mr. and Mrs. Dallas
    Brown, the Misses Mercer, Maxwell Reed, the well-known clubman
    and whip, and a Mr. Thomas Harbison, guest of the Dallas Browns
    and a South American.

    Officer McCloud’s story, told to a _Chronicle_ reporter this
    morning, is as follows: The occupants of the house had been
    uneasy all day. From the air of subdued bustle, and from a
    careful inspection of the roof, made by the entire party during
    the afternoon, his suspicions had been aroused. Nothing unusual,
    however, occurred during the early part of the night. From eight
    o’clock to twelve McCloud was relieved from duty, his place
    being taken by Michael Shane, of the Eighty-sixth Street
    Station.

    When McCloud came on duty at midnight, Shane reported that about
    eleven o’clock the searchlight of a steamer on the river,
    flashing over the house, had shown a man crouching on the
    parapet, evidently surveying the roof across, which at this
    point is only twelve feet distant, with a view to making his
    escape. On seeing Shane below, however, he had beat a retreat,
    but not before the officer had seen him distinctly. He was
    dressed in evening clothes, and wore a light tan overcoat.

    Officer McCloud relieved Shane at midnight, and sent for a
    plain-clothes man from the station-house. This man was stationed
    on the roof of the Bevington residence next door, with strict
    injunctions to prevent an escape from the quarantined mansion.
    Nothing suspicious having occurred, the man on the roof left
    about 3 A.M., reporting to McCloud below that everything was
    quiet. At that moment, glancing skyward, one of the officers was
    astounded to see a long narrow board project itself from the
    coping of the Wilson house, waver uncertainly for a moment, and
    then advance stealthily toward the parapet across. When it was
    within a foot or two of a resting place, McCloud called sharply
    to the invisible refugee above, at the same time firing his
    revolver into the ground.

    The result was surprising. The board stopped, trembled, swayed a
    little, and dropped, missing the vigilant officers by a hair’s
    breadth, and crashing to the cement with terrific force. An
    inspection of the roof from the Bevington house, later, revealed
    nothing unusual. It is evident, however, that the quarantine is
    proving irksome to the inhabitants of the sequestered residence,
    most of whom are typical society folk, without resources in
    themselves. Their condition, without valets and maids, is
    certainly pitiable. It has been rumored that the ladies are
    doing their own hair, and that the gentlemen have been reduced
    to putting their own buttons in their shirts. This deplorable
    situation, however, is unavoidable.

    The vigilance of the Board of Health has been most commendable
    in this case. Beginning with a wager over the telephone that
    they would break quarantine in twenty-four hours, and ending
    with the attempt to span a twelve-foot gulf with a board, over
    which to cross to freedom, these shut-in society folk have shown
    a characteristic disregard of the laws of the State. It is quite
    time to extend to the millionaire the same strictness that keeps
    the commuter at home for three weeks with the measles; that
    makes him get the milk bottles and groceries from the gate-post
    and smell like dog-soap for a month afterwards, as a result of
    disinfection.

I was quite ill the next morning—from excitement, I suppose. Anyhow, I
did not get up, and there wasn’t any breakfast. Jim said he roused
Flannigan at eight o’clock, to go down and get a fire started, and then
went back to bed. Anyhow, Flannigan did not get up. He appeared,
sheepishly, at half past ten, and by that time Bella was down, in a
towering rage, and had burned her hand and got the fire started, and
taken up a tray for Aunt Selina and herself.

As the others straggled down they boiled themselves an egg, or ate some
fruit, and nobody put anything away. Lollie Mercer made me some tea and
scorched toast, and brought it, about eleven o’clock.

“I never saw such a house,” she declared. “A dozen housemaids couldn’t
put it in order. Why should every man that smokes drop his ashes
wherever he happens to be?”

“That’s the question of the ages,” I replied languidly. “What was Max
talking so horribly about a little while ago.” Lollie looked up
aggrieved.

“About nothing at all,” she declared. “Anne told me to clean the bath
tubs with oil, and I did it, that’s all. Now Max says he couldn’t get it
off, and his clothes stick to him, and if he should light a cigarette he
would explode. He can clean his own tub to-morrow,” she finished
vindictively.

Jimmy came in then, bringing Anne for propriety—a concession to
Bella—and read me the paper.

“Now, what do you think of that?” he demanded. “What sort of a newspaper
lie do you call it? It makes me crazy: everybody with a mental picture
of me leaning over a parapet, waving a board, with the rest of you
sitting on my legs to keep me from overbalancing!”

“Maybe it is true,” I suggested. “Not of you, Jim—but some one may have
tried to get out that way. In fact, I think it extremely likely.”

“Who? Flannigan? You couldn’t drive him out. He’s having the time of his
life. Do you suspect me?”

“Come away and don’t fight,” Anne broke in pacifically. “You will have
to have luncheon sent in, Jimmy; nobody has ordered anything from the
shops, and I feel like old Mother Hubbard.”

“I wish you would all go out,” I said wearily. “If every man in the
house says he didn’t try to get over to the next roof last night, well
and good. But you might look and see if the board is still lying where
it fell.”

There was an instantaneous rush for the window, and a second’s pause.
Then Jimmy’s voice, incredulous, awed:

“Well, I’ll be—blessed. There’s the board!”

I stayed in my room all that day. My head really ached, and then, too, I
did not care to meet Mr. Harbison. It would have to come; I realized
that a meeting was inevitable, but I wanted time to think how I would
meet him. It would be impossible to cut him, without rousing the
curiosity of the others to fever pitch; and it was equally impossible to
ignore the disgraceful episode on the stairs. As it happened, however, I
need not have worried. I went down to dinner, languidly, when every one
was seated, and found Max at my right, and Mr. Harbison moved over
beside Bella. Every one was talking at once, for Flannigan, ambling
around the table as airily as he walked his rounds, had presented Bella
with her bracelet on a salad plate, garnished with endive. He had found
it in the furnace room, he maintained, where she must have dropped it.
And he looked at me stealthily, to approve his mendacity!

Every one was famished, and as they ate they discussed the board in the
areaway, and pretended to deride it as a clever bit of press work, to
revive a dying sensation. No one was deceived: Anne’s pearls and the
attempt at escape, coming just after, pointed only to one thing. I
looked around the table, dazed. Flannigan, almost the only unknown
quantity, might have tried to escape the night before, but he would not
have been in dress clothes. Besides, he must be eliminated, as far as
the pearls were concerned, having been locked in the furnace room that
night. There was no one among the girls to suspect. The Mercer girls had
stunning pearls, and could secure all they wanted legitimately; and
Bella disliked them. Oh, there was no question about it, I decided:
Dallas and Anne had taken a wolf to their bosom—or is it a viper?—and
the Harbison man was the creature. Although I will say that, looking
over the table, at Jimmy’s breadth and not very imposing personality, at
Max’s lean length, sallow skin, and scrubby black mustache, at Dallas,
blond, growing bald and florid, and then at the Harbison boy, tall,
muscular, clear-eyed, and sunburned, one would have taken Max at first
choice as the villain, with Dal next, Jim third, and the Harbison boy
not in the running.

It was just after dinner that the surprise was sprung on me. Mr.
Harbison came around to me gravely, and asked me if I felt able to go up
on the roof. On the roof, after last night! I had to gather myself
together; luckily, the others were pushing back their chairs, showing
Flannigan the liqueur glasses to take up, and lighting cigarettes.

“I do not care to go,” I said icily.

“The others are coming,” he persisted, “and I—I could give you an arm
up the stairs.”

“I believe you are quite good at that,” I said, looking at him steadily.
“Thank you, I may go, but not—with you.”

He really went rather white. Then he bowed ceremoniously and left me.

Max got me a wrap, end every one except Mr. Harbison and Bella, who was
taking a mass of indigestibles to Aunt Selina, went to the roof.

“Where is Tom?” Anne asked, as we reached the foot of the stairs.

“Gone ahead to fix things,” was the answer. But he was not there. At the
top of the last flight I stopped, dumb with amazement: the roof had been
transformed, enchanted. It was a fairy-land of lights and foliage and
colors. I had to stop and rub my eyes. From the bleakness of a tin roof
in February, to the brightness and greenery of a July roof garden!

“You were the immediate inspiration, Kit,” Dallas said. “Harbison
thought your headache might come from lack of exercise and fresh air,
and he has worked us like nailers all day. I’ve a blister on my right
palm, and Harbison got shocked while he was wiring the place, and nearly
fell over the parapet. We bought out two florists by telephone.”

It was a most amazing transformation. At each corner a pole had been
erected, and wires crossed the roof diagonally, hung with red and amber
bulbs. Around the chimneys had been massed evergreen trees in tubs,
hiding their brick-and-mortar ugliness, and among the trees tiny lights
were strung. Along the parapet were rows of geometrical boxwood plants
in bright red crocks, and the flaps of a crimson and white tent had been
thrown open, showing lights within, and rugs, wicker chairs, and
cushions.

Max raised a glass of benedictine and posed for a moment,
melodramatically.

“To the Wilson roof garden!” he said. “To Kit, who inspired; to the
creators, who perspired; and to Takahiro—may he not have expired.”

Every one was very gay; I think the knowledge that to-morrow Aunt Selina
might be with them urged them to make the most of this last night of
freedom. I tried to be jolly, and succeeded in being feverish. Mr.
Harbison did not appear to enjoy what he had wrought. Jim brought up his
guitar and sang love songs in a beautiful tenor, looking at Bella all
the time. And Bella sat in a steamer chair, with a rug over her and a
spangled veil on her head, looking at the boats on the river—about as
soft and as chastened as an acetylene headlight.

And after Max had told a most improbable tale, which Leila advised him
to sprinkle salt on, and Dallas had done a clog dance, Bella said it was
time for her complexion sleep, and went downstairs, which broke up the
party.

“If she only gave half as much care to her immortal soul,” Anne said
when she had gone, “as she does to her skin, she would let that nice
Harbison boy alone. She must have been brutal to him to-night, for he
went to bed at nine o’clock. At least, I suppose he went to bed: he shut
himself in the studio, and when I knocked he advised me not to come in.”

I had pleaded my headache as an excuse for avoiding Aunt Selina all day,
and she had not sent for me. Bella was really quite extraordinary. She
was never in the habit of putting herself out for any one, and she
always declared that the very odor of a sick-room drove her to Scotch
and soda. But here she was, rubbing Aunt Selina’s back with chloroform
liniment—and you know how that smells—getting her up in a chair,
dressed in one of Bella’s wadded silk robes, with pillows under her
feet, and then doing her hair in elaborate puffs—braiding her gray
switch and bringing it, coronet-fashion, around the top of her head. She
even put rice powder on Aunt Selina’s nose, and dabbed violet water
behind her ears, and said she couldn’t understand why she (Aunt Selina)
had never married, but of course she probably would some day!

The result was, of course, that the old lady wouldn’t let Bella out of
her sight, except to go to the kitchen for something to eat for her.
That very day Bella got the doctor to order ale for Aunt Selina (oh,
yes: the doctor could come in; anything could come in, but nothing could
go out) and she had three pints of Bass, and learned to eat anchovies
and caviare—all in one day.

Bella’s conduct to Jim was disgraceful. She snubbed him, ignored him,
tramped on him, and Jim was growing positively flabby. He spent most of
his time writing letters to the Board of Health and playing solitaire.
He was a pathetic figure.

Well, we went to bed fairly early. Bella had massaged Aunt Selina’s face
and rubbed in cold cream, Anne and Dallas had compromised on which
window should be open in their bedroom, and the men had matched to see
who should look at the furnace. I did not expect to sleep, but the cold
night air had done its work, and I was asleep almost immediately.

Some time during the early part of the night I wakened, and, after
turning and twisting uneasily, I realized that I was cold. The couch in
Bella’s dressing-room was comfortable enough, but narrow and low. I
remember distinctly (that was what was so maddening: everybody thought I
dreamed it)—I remember getting an eiderdown comfort that was folded at
my feet, and pulling it up around me. In the luxury of its warmth I
snuggled down and went to sleep almost instantly. It seemed to me I had
slept for hours, but it was probably an hour or less, when something
roused me. The room was perfectly dark, and there was not a sound save
the faint ticking of the clock, but I was wide awake.

And then came the incident that in its ghastly, horrible absurdity made
the rest of the people, shout with laughter the next day. It was not
funny then. For suddenly the eiderdown comfort began to slip. I had
heard no footstep, not the slightest sound approaching me, but the
comfort moved; from my chin, inch by inch, it slipped to my shoulders;
awfully, inevitably, hair-raisingly, it moved. I could feel my blood
gather around my heart, leaving me cold and nerveless. As it passed my
hands I gave an involuntary clutch for it, to feel it slip away from my
fingers. Then the full horror of the situation took hold of me: as the
comfort slid past my feet I sat up and screamed at the top of my voice.

Of course people came running in in all sorts of things. I was still
sitting up, declaring I had seen a ghost and that the house was haunted.
Dallas came rushing in, struggling for the second armhole of his
dressing-gown, and Bella had already turned on the lights. They said I
had had a nightmare, and not to sleep on my back, and perhaps I was
taking the grippe.

And just then Jimmy came running down the stairs, and fell over
something, almost breaking his wrist. It was the eiderdown comfort, half
way up the studio staircase!




                                   X.


Aunt Selina got up the next morning and Jim told her all the strange
things that had been happening. She fixed on Flannigan, of course,
although she still suspected Betty of her watch and other valuables. The
incident of the comfort she called nervous indigestion and bad hours.

She spent the entire day going through the store-room and linen closets,
and running her fingers over things for dust. Whenever she found any she
looked at me, drew a long breath, and said, “Poor James!” It was
maddening. And when she went through his clothes and found some buttons
off (Jim didn’t keep a man, and Takahiro had stopped at his boots) she
looked at me quite awfully.

“His mother was a perfect housekeeper,” she said. “James was brought up
in clothes with the buttons on, put on clean shelves.”

“Didn’t they put them on him?” I asked, almost hysterically. It had been
a bad morning, after a worse night. Every one had found fault with the
breakfast, and they straggled down one at a time until I was frantic.
Then Flannigan had talked at me about the pearls, and Mr. Harbison had
said, “Good-morning,” very stiffly, and nearly rattled the inside of the
furnace out.

Early in the morning, too, I overheard a scrap of conversation between
the policeman and our gentleman-adventurer from South America. Something
had gone wrong with the telephone and Mr. Harbison was fussing over it
with a screw-driver and a pair of scissors—all the tools he could find.
Flannigan was lifting rugs to shake them on the roof—Bella’s order.

“Wash the table linen!” he was grumbling. “I’ll do what I can that’s
necessary. Grub has to be, and dishes has to be washed—I’ll admit that.
If you’re particular, make up your bed every day; I don’t object. But
don’t tell me we have to use thirty-three table napkins a day. What did
folks do before napkins was invented? Tell me that!”—triumphantly.

“What’s the answer?” Mr. Harbison said absently, evidently with the
screw-driver in his mouth.

“Used their pocket handkerchiefs! And if the worst comes to the worst,
Mr. Harbison, these folks here can use their sleeves, for all I
care—not that the women has any sleeves to speak of. Wash clothes I
will not.”

“Well, don’t worry Mrs. Wilson about it,” the other voice said.
Flannigan straightened himself with a grunt.

“Mrs. Wilson!” he said. “A lot she would worry. She’s been a
disappointment to me, Mr. Harbison, me thinking that now she’d come back
to him, after leavin’ him the way she did, they’d be like two turtle
doves. Lord! the cook next door——”

But what the cook had told about Bella and Jimmy was not divulged, for
the Harbison man caught him up with a jerk and sent Flannigan,
grumbling, with his rugs to the roof.

It did not seem possible to carry on the deception much longer, but if
things were bad now, what would they be when Aunt Selina learned she had
been lied to, made ridiculous, generally deceived? And how would I be
able to live in the house with her when she did know? Luckily, every one
was so puzzled over the mystery in the house that loads of little things
that would have been absolutely damning were never noticed at all. For
instance, my asking Jimmy at luncheon that day if he took cream in his
coffee! And Max, coming to the rescue by dropping his watch in his glass
of water, and creating a diversion and a laugh by saying not to mind; it
had been in soak before.

Some time that afternoon Lollie hunted me out in the tent. I had fled to
the roof to avoid Aunt Selina, who did not dare to brave the February
air. Lollie wore an air of mystery, and although no one could possibly
have overheard, she closed the door to the steps, and, coming over, drew
a chair close to mine.

“Have you seen much of Tom to-day?” she asked, as an introduction.

“I suppose you mean Mr. Harbison, Lollie,” I said. “No—not any more
than I could help. Don’t whisper, he couldn’t possibly hear you. And if
it’s scandal I don’t want to hear it.”

“Look here, Kit,” she retorted, “you needn’t be so superior. If I like
to talk scandal, I’m not so sure you aren’t making it.”

That was the way right along: _I_ was making scandal; _I_ brought them
there to dinner; _I_ let Bella in!

And of course Anne came up then, and began on me at once.

“You are a very bad girl,” she began. “What do you mean by treating Tom
Harbison the way you do? He is heart-broken.”

“I think you overestimate my influence over him,” I retorted. “I haven’t
treated him badly, because I haven’t paid any attention to him.”

Anne threw up her hands.

“There you are!” she said. “He worked all day yesterday fixing this
place for you—yes, for you, my dear. I am not blind—and last night you
refused to let him bring you up.”

“He told you!” I flamed.

“He wondered what he had done. And as you wouldn’t let him come within
speaking distance of you, he came to me.”

“I am sorry, Anne, since you are fond of him,” I said. “But to me he is
impossible—intolerable. My reasons are quite sufficient.”

“Kit is quite right, Anne,” Leila broke in. “I tell you, there is
something queer about him.”

Anne stiffened.

“He is perfect,” she declared. “Of good family, warm-hearted,
courageous, handsome, clever—what more do you ask?”

“Honesty,” said Leila hotly. “That a man should be what he says he is.”

Anne and I both stared.

“It was your Mr. Harbison,” Leila went on, “who tried to escape from the
house by putting a board across to the next roof!”

“I don’t believe it,” said Anne. “You might bring me a picture of him,
board in hand, and I wouldn’t believe it.”

“Don’t, then,” said Lollie cruelly. “Let him get away with your pearls;
they are yours. Only, as sure as anything, the man who tried to escape
from this house had a reason for escaping, and the papers said a man in
evening dress and light overcoat. I found Mr. Harbison’s overcoat to-day
lying in a heap in one of the maids’ rooms, and it was covered with
brick dust all over the front. A button had even been torn off.”

“Pooh!” Anne said, when she had recovered herself a little. “There isn’t
any reason, as far as that goes, why Flannigan shouldn’t have worn Tom’s
overcoat, or—any of the others.”

“Flannigan!” Leila said loftily. “Why, his arms are like piano-legs; he
couldn’t get into it. As for the others, there is only one person who
would fit, or nearly fit, that overcoat, and that is Dallas, Anne.”

While Anne was choking down her wrath, Leila got up and darted out of
the tent. When she came back she was triumphant.

“Look,” she said, holding out her hand. And on her palm lay a lightish
brown button. “I found it just where the paper said the board was thrown
out, and it is from Mr. Harbison’s overcoat, without a doubt.”

Of course I should not have been surprised. A man who would kiss a woman
on a dark staircase—a woman he had known only two days—was capable of
anything.

“Kit has only been a little keener than the rest of us,” Lollie said.
“She found him out yesterday.”

“Upon my word,” Anne said indignantly, preparing to go, “if I didn’t
know you girls so well, I would think you were crazy. And now, just to
offset this, I can tell you something. Flannigan told me this morning
not to worry; that he has my pearl collar spotted, and _young ladies
will have their jokes_!”

Yes, as I said before, it was a cheerful, joy-producing situation.

I sat and thought it over after Anne’s parting shot, when Leila had
flounced downstairs. Things were closing up: I gave the situation
twenty-four hours to develop. At the end of that time Flannigan would
accuse me openly of knowing where the pearls were; I would explain my
silly remark to him, and the mine would explode—under Aunt Selina.

I was sunk in dejected reverie when some one came on the roof. When he
was opposite the opening in the tent, I saw Mr. Harbison, and at that
moment he saw me. He paused uncertainly, then he made an evident effort
and came over to me.

“You are—better to-day?”

“Quite well, thank you.”

“I am glad you find the tent useful. Does it keep off the wind?”

“It is quite a shelter”—frigidly.

He still stood, struggling for something to say. Evidently nothing came
to his mind, for he lifted the cap he was wearing, and, turning away,
began to work with the wiring of the roof. He was clever with tools; one
could see that. If he was a professional gentleman-burglar, no doubt he
needed to be. After a bit, finding it necessary to climb onto the
parapet, he took off his coat, without even a glance in my direction,
and fell to work vigorously.

One need not like a man, to admire him physically, any more than one
needs to like a race-horse or any other splendid animal. No one could
deny that the man on the parapet was a splendid animal; he looked quite
big enough and strong enough to have tossed his slender bridge across
the gulf to the next roof, without any difficulty, and coördinate enough
to have crossed on it with a flourish to safety.

Just then there was a rending, tearing sound from the corner, and a
muttered ejaculation. I looked up in time to see Mr. Harbison throw up
his arms, make a futile attempt to regain his balance, and disappear
over the edge of the roof. One instant he was standing there, splendid,
superb; the next, the corner of the parapet was empty, all that stood
there was a broken, splintered post and a tangle of wires.

I could not move at first; at least, it seemed hours before the full
significance of the thing penetrated my dazed brain. When I got up I
seemed to walk, to crawl, with leaden weights holding my feet.

When I got to the corner I had to catch the post for support. I knew
somebody was saying, “Oh, how terrible!” over and over. It was only
afterwards that I knew it had been myself. And then some other voice was
saying, “Don’t be alarmed. Please don’t be frightened. I’m all right.”

I dared to look over the parapet, finally, and instead of a crushed and
unspeakable body, there was Mr. Harbison, sitting about eight feet below
me, with his feet swinging into space and a long red scratch from the
corner of his eye across his cheek. There was a sort of a mansard there,
with windows, and just enough of a coping to keep him from rolling off.

“I thought you had fallen—all the way,” I gasped, trying to keep my
lips from trembling. “I—oh, don’t dangle your feet like that!”

He did not seem at all glad of his escape. He sat there gloomily,
peering into the gulf beneath.

“If it wasn’t so—er—messy and generally unpleasant,” he replied,
without looking up, “I would slide off and go the rest of the way.”

“You are childish,” I said severely. “See if you can get through the
window behind you. If you cannot, I’ll come down and unfasten it.” But
the window was open, and I had a chance to sit down and gather up the
scattered ends of my nerves. To my surprise, however, when he came back
he made no effort to renew our conversation. He ignored me completely,
and went to work at once to repair the damage to his wires, with his
back to me.

“I think you are very rude,” I said at last. “You fell over there and I
thought you were killed. The nervous shock I experienced is just as bad
as if you had gone—all the way.”

He put down the hammer and came over to me without speaking. Then, when
he was quite close, he said:

“I am very sorry if I startled you. I did not flatter myself that you
would be profoundly affected, in any event.”

“Oh, as to that,” I said lightly, “it makes me ill for days if my car
runs over a dog.” He looked at me in silence. “You are not going to get
up on that parapet again?”

“Mrs. Wilson,” he said, without paying the slightest attention to my
question, “will you tell me what I have done?”

“Done?”

“Or have not done? I have racked my brains—stayed awake all of last
night. At first I hoped it was impersonal, that, womanlike, you were
merely venting general disfavor on one particular individual. But—your
hostility is to me, personally.”

I raised my eyebrows, coldly interrogative.

“Perhaps,” he went on calmly—“perhaps I was a fool here on the
roof—the night before last. If I said anything that I should not, I ask
your pardon. If it is not that, I think you ought to ask mine.”

I was angry enough then.

“There can be only one opinion about your conduct,” I retorted warmly.
“It was worse than brutal. It—it was unspeakable. I have no words for
it—except that I loathe it—and you.”

He was very grim by this time. “I have heard you say something like that
before—only I was not the unfortunate in that case.”

“Oh!” I was choking.

“Under different circumstances I should be the last person to recall
anything so—personal. But the circumstances are unusual.” He took an
angry step toward me. “Will you tell me what I have done? Or shall I go
down and ask the others?”

“You wouldn’t dare,” I cried, “or I will tell them what you did! How you
waylaid me on those stairs there, and forced your caresses, your kisses,
on me! Oh, I could die with shame!”

The silence that followed was as unexpected as it was ominous. I knew he
was staring at me, and I was furious to find myself so emotional, so
much more the excited of the two. Finally I looked up.

“You cannot deny it,” I said, a sort of anti-climax.

“No.” He was very quiet, very grim, quite composed. “No,” he repented
judicially. “I do not deny it.”

He did not? Or he would not? Which?




                                  XI.


Max was still hunting Anne’s pearls, using them, the men declared, as a
good excuse to avoid tinkering with the furnace or repairing the
dumb-waiter, which took the queerest notions, and stopped once, half way
up from the kitchen, for an hour, with the dinner on it. Anyhow, Max was
searching the house systematically armed with a copy of Poe’s “Purloined
Letter” and Gaboriau’s “Monsieur Lecoq”. He went through the seats of
the chairs with a hat-pin, tore up the beds, and lifted rugs, until the
house was in a state of confusion. And the next day, the fourth, he
found something—not much, but it was curious. He had been in the
studio, poking around behind the dusty pictures, with Jimmy
expostulating every time he moved anything and the rest standing around
watching him.

Max was strutting.

“We get it by elimination,” he said importantly. “The pearls being
nowhere else in the house, they must be here in the studio. Three parts
of the studio having yielded nothing, they must be in the fourth. Ladies
and gentlemen, let me have your attention for one moment. I tap this
canvas with my wand—there is nothing up my sleeve. Then I prepare to
move the canvas—so. And I put my hand in the pocket of this
disreputable velvet coat, so. Behold!”

Then he gave a low exclamation and looked at something he held in his
hand. Every one stepped forward, and on his palm was the small diamond
clasp from Anne’s collar!

Jimmy was apoplectic. He tried to smile, but no one else did.

“Well, I’ll be flabbergasted!” he said. “I say, you people, you don’t
think for a minute that I put that thing there? Why, I haven’t worn that
coat for a month. It’s—it’s a trick of yours, Max.”

But Max shook his head; he looked stupefied, and stood gazing from the
clasp to the pocket of the old painting-coat. Betty dropped onto a
folding stool, that promptly collapsed with her and created a welcome
diversion, while Anne pounced on the clasp greedily, with a little cry.

“We will find it all now,” she said excitedly. “Did you look in the
other pockets, Max?”

Then, for the first time, I was conscious of an air of constraint among
the men. Dallas was whistling softly, and Mr. Harbison, having rescued
Betty, was standing silent and aloof, watching the scene with
non-committal eyes. It was Max who spoke first, after a hurried
inventory of the other pockets.

“Nothing else,” he said constrainedly. “I’ll move the rest of the
canvases.”

But Jim interfered, to every one’s surprise.

“I wouldn’t, if I were you, Max. There’s nothing back there. I had ’em
out yesterday.” He was quite pale.

“Nonsense!” Max said gruffly. “If it’s a practical joke, Jim, why don’t
you ’fess up? Anne has worried enough.”

“The pearls are not there, I tell you,” Jim began. Although the studio
was cold, there were little fine beads of moisture on his face. “I must
ask you not to move those pictures.” And then Aunt Selina came to the
rescue: she stalked over and stood with her back against the stack of
canvases.

“As far as I can understand this,” she declaimed, “you gentlemen are
trying to intimate that James knows something of that young woman’s
jewelry, because you found part of it in his pocket. Certainly you will
not move the pictures. How do you know that the young gentleman who said
he found it there didn’t have it up his sleeve?”

She looked around triumphantly, and Max glowered. Dallas soothed her,
however.

“Exactly so,” he said. “How do we know that Max didn’t have the clasp up
his sleeve? My dear lady, neither my wife nor I care anything for the
pearls, as compared with the priceless pearl of peace. I suggest tea on
the roof; those in favor——? My arm, Miss Caruthers.”

It was all well enough for Jim to say later that he didn’t dare to have
the canvases moved, for he had stuck behind them all sorts of chorus
girl photographs and life-class crayons that were not for Aunt Selina’s
eye, besides four empty siphons, two full ones, and three bottles of
whisky. Not a soul in the house believed him: there was a new element of
suspicion and discord in the house.

Every one went up on the roof and left him to his mystery. Anne drank
her tea in a preoccupied silence, with half-closed eyes, an attitude
that boded ill to somebody. The rest were feverishly gay, and Aunt
Selina, with a pair of arctics on her feet and a hot-water bottle at her
back, sat in the middle of the tent and told me familiar anecdotes of
Jimmy’s early youth (had he known, he would have slain her). Betty and
Mr. Harbison had found a baseball, and were running around like a pair
of children. It was quite certain that neither his escape from death nor
my accusation weighed heavily on him.

At a quarter before six Dallas put down his tea-cup and grunted his way
to the furnace; the men usually attended to it before dressing for
dinner, and this was Dal’s day. Flannigan had been relieved of that part
of the work, after twice setting fire to a chimney. In five minutes Dal
came back, and spoke a few words to Max, who went down with him, and in
ten minutes more Flannigan puffed up the steps and called Mr. Harbison.
Aunt Selina was busy with the time Jimmy had swallowed an open
safety-pin, so I could not go at once, but I knew something new had
transpired. As soon as the pin had been coughed up, or taken out of his
nose—I forget which—I slipped away quietly and went down the stairs.

There was no one in the studio, or even in the library. I could hear
voices from somewhere, faint voices that talked rapidly, and after
awhile I located the sounds under my feet. The men were all in the
basement, and something must have happened. I flew back to the basement
stairs, to meet Mr. Harbison at the foot. He was grimy and dusty, with
streaks of coal dust over his face, and he had been examining his
revolver. I was just in time to see him slip it into his pocket.

“What is the matter?” I demanded. “Is any one hurt?”

“No one,” he said coolly. “We’ve been cleaning out the furnace.”

“With a revolver! How interesting—and unusual!” I said drily, and
slipped past him as he barred my way. He was not pleased; I heard him
mutter something and come rapidly after me, but I had the voices as a
guide, and I was not going to be turned back like a child. The men had
gathered around a low stone arch in the furnace-room, and were looking
down a short flight of steps, into a sort of vault, evidently under the
pavement. A faint light came from a small grating above, and there was a
close, musty smell in the air.

“I tell you it must have been last night,” Dallas was saying. “Wilson
and I were here before we went to bed, and I’ll swear that hole was not
there then.”

“It was not there this morning, sir,” Flannigan insisted. “It has been
made during the day.”

“And it could not have been done this afternoon,” Mr. Harbison said
quietly. “I was fussing with the telephone wire down here. I would have
heard the noise.”

Something in his voice made me look at him, and certainly his expression
was unusual. He was watching us all most intently while Dallas pointed
out to me the cause of the excitement. From the main floor of the
furnace-room, a flight of stone steps surmounted by an arch led into the
coal cellar, beneath the street. The coal cellar was of brick, with a
cement floor, and in the left wall there gaped an opening about three
feet by three, lending into a cavernous void, perfectly black—evidently
a similar vault belonging to the next house.

The whole place was ghostly, full of shadows, shivery with
possibilities. It was Mr. Harbison finally who took Jim’s candle and
crawled through the aperture. We waited in dead silence, listening to
his feet crunching over the coal beyond, watching the faint yellow light
that came through the ragged opening in the wall. Then he came back and
called through to us.

“Place is locked, over here,” he said. “Heavy oak door at the head of
the steps. Whoever made that opening has done a prodigious amount of
labor for nothing.”

The weapon, a crowbar, lay on the ground beside the bricks, and he
picked it up and balanced it on his hand. Dallas’s florid face was
almost comical in his bewilderment; as for Jimmy—he slammed a lump of
coal at the furnace and walked away. At the door he turned around.

“Why don’t you accuse me of it?” he asked bitterly. “Maybe you could
find a lump of coal in my pockets if you searched me.”

He stalked up the stairs then and left us. Dallas and I went up
together, but we did not talk. There seemed to be nothing to say. Not
until I had closed and locked the door of my room did I venture to look
at something that I carried in the palm of my hand. It was a watch, not
running—a gentleman’s flat gold watch, and it had been hanging by its
fob to a nail in the bricks beside the aperture.

In the back of the watch was a picture of a girl, cut from a newspaper,
and the initials T. H. H.

It was my picture!




                                  XII.


I was the first one down for dinner that night, and I had Mr. Harbison’s
guilty watch in my girdle. I found him in the library, staring through
the February gloom at the blank wall of the next house, and quite
unconscious of the reporter with a drawing pad just below him in the
areaway. I went over and closed the shutters before his very eyes, but
even then he did not move.

“Will you be good enough to turn around?” I demanded at last.

“Oh!” he said, wheeling. “Are _you_ here?”

There wasn’t any reply to that, so I took the watch and placed it on the
library table between us. The effect was all I had hoped. He stared at
it for an instant, then at me, and with his hand out-stretched for it,
stopped.

“Where did you find it?” he asked. I couldn’t understand his expression.
He looked embarrassed, but not at all afraid.

“I think you know, Mr. Harbison,” I retorted.

“You opened it?”

“Yes.”

We stood looking each at the other across the table. It was his glance
that wavered.

“About that picture—of you,” he said at last. “You see, down there in
South America, a fellow hasn’t much to do in the evenings, and a—a chum
of mine and I—we were awfully down on what we called the plutocrats,
the—the leisure classes. And when that picture of yours came in the
paper, we had—we had an argument. He said——”

“What did he say?”

“Well, he said it was the picture of an empty-faced society girl.”

“Oh!” I exclaimed.

“I—I maintained there were possibilities in the face.” He put both
hands on the table, and, bending forward, looked down at me. “Well, I
was a fool, I admit. I said your eyes were kind and candid, in spite of
that haughty mouth. I said you would be incapable of deception. You see,
I said I was a fool.”

“I think you are exceedingly rude,” I managed finally. “If you want to
know where I found your watch, it was down in the coal cellar. And if
you admit you are an idiot, I am not. I—I know all about Bella’s
bracelet—and the board on the roof, and—oh, if you would only
leave—Anne’s necklace—on the coal, or somewhere—and get away——”

My voice got beyond me then, and I dropped into a chair and covered my
face. I could feel him staring at the back of my head.

“Well, I’ll be”—something or other, he said finally, and then he turned
on his heel and went out. By the time I had got my eyes dry (yes, I was
crying; I always do when I am angry) I heard Jim coming downstairs, and
I tucked the watch out of sight in my belt. Would any one have foreseen
the trouble that watch would make!

Jim was sulky. He dropped into a chair and stretched out his legs,
looking gloomily at nothing. Then he got up and ambled into his den,
closing the door behind him without having spoken a word. It was more
than human nature could stand.

When I went into the den he was stretched on the davenport with his face
buried in the cushions. He looked absolutely wilted, and every line of
him was drooping.

“Go on out, Kit,” he said, in a smothered voice. “Be a good girl and
don’t follow me around.”

“You are shameless,” I gasped. “Follow you! When you are hung around my
neck like a—like a——” “Mill-stone” was what I wanted to say, but I
couldn’t think of it. “And you dared to tell Mr. Harbison. You—you
wretch!”

He turned over and looked up from his cushions like an ill-treated and
suffering cherub.

“I’m done for, Kit,” he groaned. “Bella went up to the studio after we
left, and investigated that corner.”

“What did she find? The necklace?” I asked eagerly. He was too wretched
to notice this.

“No, that picture of you that I did last winter. She is crazy—says she
is going up to sit in Takahiro’s room and catch the fever and die.”

“I’m not interested in Bella,” I said coldly. “If she recognized that
picture of me, she’s the first person who ever did. And if you want my
opinion about your telling Mr. Harbison, I think you did it because you
were jealous of him and Bella.”

Jim sat up and nursed a pillow. He was growing more complacent.

“I was, for a fact,” he admitted. “But it seems there’s nothing to it.
He—he as much as told me so. He was keeping Bella away from me on
_your_ account.”

“Fiddlesticks!” I said rudely, and somebody hammered on the door and
opened it.

“Pardon me for disturbing you,” Bella said, in her best
dear-me-I’m-glad-I-knocked manner. “But—Flannigan says the dinner has
not come.”

“Good Lord!” Jim exclaimed. “I forgot to order the confounded dinner!”

It was eight o’clock by that time, and as it took an hour at least after
telephoning the order, everybody looked blank when they heard. The
entire family, except Mr. Harbison, who had not appeared again, escorted
Jim to the ’phone and hung around hungrily, suggesting new dishes every
minute. And then—he couldn’t raise the Central. It was fifteen minutes
before we gave up, and stood staring at each other despairingly.

“Call out a window, and get one of those infernal reporters to do
something useful for once,” Max suggested. But he was indignantly
hushed. We would have starved first. Jim was peering into the
transmitter and knocking the receiver against his hand like a watch that
has stopped. But nothing happened. Flannigan reported a box of breakfast
food, two lemons, and a pineapple cheese, a combination that didn’t seem
to lend itself to anything.

We went back to the dining-room from sheer force of habit and sat around
the table and looked at the lemonade Flannigan had made. Anne _would_
talk about the salad her last cook had concocted, and Max told about a
little town in Connecticut where the restaurant keeper smokes a corn-cob
pipe while he cooks the most luscious fried clams in America. And Aunt
Selina told about how, in her family, they had a recipe for chicken
smothered in cream. And then we sipped the weak lemonade and nibbled at
the cheese.

“To change this gridiron martyrdom,” Dallas said finally, “where’s
Harbison? Still looking for his watch?”

“Watch!” Everybody said it in a different tone.

“Sure,” he responded. “Says his watch was taken last night from the
studio. Better get him down to take a squint at the telephone. Likely he
can fix it.”

Flannigan was beside me with the cheese. And at that moment I felt Mr.
Harbison’s stolen watch slip out of my girdle, slide greasily across my
lap, and clatter to the floor. Flannigan stooped, but luckily it had
gone under the table. To have had it picked up, to have to explain how I
got it, to see them try to ignore my picture pasted in it—oh, it was
impossible! I put my foot over it.

“Drop something?” Dallas asked perfunctorily, rising. Flannigan was
still half kneeling.

“A fork,” I said, as easily as I could, and the conversation went on.
But Flannigan knew, and I knew he knew. He watched my every movement
like a hawk after that, standing just behind my chair. I dropped my
useless napkin, to have it whirled up before it reached the floor. I
said to Betty that my shoe buckle was loose, and actually got the watch
in my hand, only to let it slip at the critical moment. Then they all
got up and went sadly back to the library, and Flannigan and I faced
each other.

Flannigan was not a handsome man at any time, but up to then he had at
least looked amiable. But as I stood with my hand on the back of my
chair, his face grew suddenly menacing. The silence was absolute: I was
the guiltiest wretch alive, and opposite me the law towered and
glowered, and held the yellow remnant of a pineapple cheese! And in the
silence that wretched watch lay and ticked and ticked and ticked. Then
Flannigan creaked over and closed the door into the hall, came back,
picked up the watch, and looked at it.

“You’re unlucky, I’m thinkin’,” he said finally. “You’ve got the nerve
all right, but you ain’t cute enough.”

“I don’t know what you mean,” I quavered. “Give me that watch to return
to Mr. Harbison.”

“Not on your life,” he retorted easily. “I give it back myself, like I
did the bracelet, and—like I’m going to give back the necklace, if
you’ll act like a sensible little girl.”

I could only choke.

“It’s foolish, any way you look at it,” he persisted. “Here you are,
lots of friends, folks that think you’re all right. Why, I reckon there
isn’t one of them that wouldn’t lend you money if you needed it so bad.”

“Will you be still?” I said furiously. “Mr. Harbison left that
watch—with me—an hour ago. Get him, and he will tell you so himself?”

“Of course he would,” Flannigan conceded, looking at me with grudging
approval. “He wouldn’t be what I think he is, if he didn’t lie up and
down for you.” There were voices in the hall. Flannigan came closer. “An
hour ago, you say. And he told me it was gone this morning! It’s a
losing game, miss. I’ll give you twenty-four hours, and then—the
necklace, if you please, miss.”

Max came in just then, and, adroit as Flannigan was, I think he saw the
watch. He said nothing about it, however, and only asked if we had seen
Mr. Harbison.

“Can’t find him,” he said, “and Dal’s put the telephone together and has
enough left over to make another. Where do you suppose Harbison put the
tools? We’re working with a corkscrew and two palette knives.”

They worked the rest of the evening, but the telephone refused to revive
and every one was famishing. Individually our pride was at a low ebb,
but collectively it was still formidable. So we sat around, and Jim
played Grieg with the soft stops on, and Aunt Selina went to bed. The
weather had changed, and it was sleeting, but anything was better than
the drawing-room. I was in a mood to battle with the elements or to
cry—or both—so I slipped out, threw somebody’s overcoat over my
shoulders, put on a man’s soft hat—Dal’s, I think—and went up to the
roof.

It was dark in the third-floor hall, and I had to feel my way to the
foot of the stairs. I went up quietly, and turned the knob of the door
to the roof. At first it would not open, and I could hear the wind
howling outside. Finally, however, I got the door open a little and
wormed my way through. It was not entirely dark out there, in spite of
the storm. A faint reflection of the street lights made it possible to
distinguish the outlines of the boxwood plants, swaying in the wind, and
the chimneys and the tent. And then—a dark figure disentangled itself
from the nearest chimney and seemed to hurl itself at me. I remember
putting out my hands and trying to say something, but the figure caught
me by the shoulders and knocked me back against the door-frame. From
miles away a heavy voice was saying, “So I’ve got you!” and then the
roof gave way, and I was floating out on the storm, and sleet was
beating in my face, and the wind was saying over and over, “Open your
eyes, for God’s sake!”

I did open them after awhile, and finally I made out that I was lying on
the ground in the tent. The lights were on, and I had a cold and damp
feeling, as if some one had been rubbing snow on my face.

I seemed to be alone, but in a second somebody came into the tent, and I
saw it was Mr. Harbison, and that he had a double handful of half-melted
snow. He looked frantic and determined, and only my sitting up quickly
prevented my getting another snow bath. My neck felt queer and stiff,
and I was very dizzy. When he saw that I was conscious he dropped the
snow and stood looking down at me.

“Do you know,” he asked grimly, “that I very nearly choked you to death
a little while ago?”

“It wouldn’t surprise me to be told so,” I said. “Do I know too much, or
what is it, Mr. Harbison?” I felt terribly ill, but I would not let him
see it. “It is queer, isn’t it,—how we always select the roof for our
little—differences?” He seemed to relax somewhat at my gibe.

“I didn’t know it was you,” he explained shortly. “I was waiting
for—some one, and in the hat you wore, and the coat, I mistook you.
That’s all. Can you stand?”

“No,” I retorted. I could, but his summary manner displeased me. The
sequel, however, was rather amazing, for he stooped suddenly and picked
me up and the next instant we were out in the storm together. At the
door he stooped and felt for the knob.

“Turn it,” he commanded. “I can’t reach it.”

“I’ll do nothing of the kind,” I said shrewishly. “Let me down; I can
walk perfectly well.”

He hesitated. Then he slid me slowly to my feet, but he did not open the
door at once. “Are you afraid to let me carry you down those stairs,
after—Tuesday night?” he asked, very low. “You still think I did that?”

I had never been less sure of it than at that moment, but an imp of
perversity made me retort, “Yes.”

He hardly seemed to hear me. He stood looking down at me as I leaned
against the door-frame.

“Good Lord!” he groaned. “To think that I might have killed you!” And
then—he stooped suddenly and kissed me.

The next moment the door was open, and he was leading me down into the
house. At the foot of the staircase he paused, still holding my hand,
and faced me in the darkness.

“I am not sorry,” he said steadily. “I suppose I ought to be, but I’m
not. Only—I want you to know that I was not guilty—before. I didn’t
intend to now. I am—almost as much surprised as you are.”

I was quite unable to speak, but I wrenched my hand loose. He stepped
back to let me pass, and I went down the hall alone.




                                 XIII.


I didn’t go to the drawing-room again. I went into my own room and sat
in the dark, and tried to be furiously angry, and only succeeded in
feeling queer and tingly. One thing was absolutely certain: not the same
man, but two different men, had kissed me on the stairs to the roof. It
sounds rather horrid and discriminating, but there was all the
difference in the world.

But then—who had? And for whom had Mr. Harbison been waiting on the
roof. “Did you know that I nearly choked you to death a few minutes
ago?” Then he rather expected to finish off somebody in that way! Who?
Dal, Max, Jim, or Flannigan? It was queer, too, but suddenly I realized
that no matter how many suspicious things I mustered up against him—and
there were plenty—down in my heart I didn’t believe him guilty of
anything, except this last and unforgivable offense. Whoever was trying
to leave the house had taken the necklace, that seemed clear, unless Max
was still foolishly trying to break quarantine and create one of the
sensations he so dearly loved. This was a new idea, and some things
upheld it, but Max had been playing bridge when I was kissed on the
stairs, and there was still left that ridiculous incident of the
comfort.

Bella came up after I had gone to bed, and turned on the light to brush
her hair.

“If I don’t leave this mausoleum soon, I’ll be carried out,” she
declared. “You in bed, Lollie Mercer and Dal flirting, Anne hysterical,
and Jim making his will in the den! You will have to take Aunt Selina
to-night, Kit; I’m all in.”

“If you’ll put her to bed, I’ll keep her there,” I conceded, after some
parley.

“You’re a dear.” Bella came back from the door. “Look here, Kit, you
know Jim pretty well. Don’t you think he looks badly? Thinner?”

“He’s a wreck,” I said soberly. “You have a lot to answer for, Bella.”

Bella went over to the cheval glass and looked in it. “I avoid him all I
can,” she said, posing. “He’s awfully funny; he’s so afraid I’ll think
he’s serious about you. He can’t realize that for me he simply doesn’t
exist.”

Well, I took Aunt Selina, and about two o’clock, while I was in my first
sleep, I woke to find her standing beside me, tugging at my arm.

“There’s somebody in the house,” she whispered. “Thieves!”

“If they’re in they’ll not get out to-night,” I said.

“I tell you, I saw a man skulking on the stairs,” she insisted.

I got up, ungraciously enough, and put on my dressing-gown. Aunt Selina,
who had her hair in crimps, tied a veil over her head, and together we
went to the head of the stairs. Aunt Selina leaned far over and peered
down.

“He is in the library,” she whispered. “I can see a light.”

The lust of battle was in Aunt Selina’s eye. She girded her robe about
her and began to descend the stairs cautiously. We went through the hall
and stopped at the library door. It was empty, but from the den beyond
came a hum of voices and the cheerful glow of firelight. I realized the
situation then, but it was too late.

“You can argue all you like,” Bella was saying, in her clear, high
tones. “You have forfeited your right to make love to me. It’s—it’s
highly improper, under the circumstances.”

And then Jim! “You swallow a camel and stick at a gnat. Why did you meet
me here, if you didn’t expect me to make love to you? I’ve stood for a
lot, Bella, but this foolishness will have to end. Either you love
me—or you don’t. I’m desperate.” He drew a long, forlorn breath.

“Poor old Jim!” This was Bella. A pause. Then—“Let my hand alone!” Also
Bella.

“It is _my_ hand”—Jim’s most fatuous tone. “_There_ is where you wore
my ring. There’s the mark still.” Sounds of Jim kissing Bella’s
ring-finger. “What did you do with it? Throw it away?” More sounds.

Aunt Selina crossed the library swiftly, and again I followed. Bella was
sitting in a low chair by the fire, looking at the logs, in the most
exquisite _liseuse_ of chiffon and ribbon. Jim was on his knees, staring
at her adoringly, and holding both her hands.

“I’ll tell you a secret,” Bella was saying, looking as coy as she knew
how—which was considerable. “I—I still wear it, on a chain around my
neck.”

“You darling!” Jim said, and slid his arm around her.

Then Aunt Selina turned to me and gave me a push. “Go right up to bed,”
she said in her most awful tone. “Just leave this affair to me.”

Jim and Bella were both on their feet by that time.

“Now,” Aunt Selina began, turning on them, “how long has this shameless
condition of things existed?”

It was hardly my affair then, so I left, and locked myself in my own
room, and waited for things to happen. But everything was quiet, and
after awhile they all came up, almost amiably, and at first I thought
they hadn’t told her. But she stopped outside my door and said very
distinctly: “Bad as this affair is, I can understand every part in it
but Miss McNair’s!” And with that parting shot she went to bed. As I
said before, it was that way all the time. They blamed _me_ for the
quarantine; Aunt Selina turned on _me_; Flannigan accused _me_ of every
crime in the calendar; and if any one was to be kissed, they kissed
_me_!

I didn’t go to sleep again, and toward morning I distinctly heard the
knob of the door turn. I mistrusted my ears, however, and so I got up
quietly and went over in the darkness. There was nothing to be heard,
but when I put my hand on the knob I felt it move under my fingers. The
counter pressure evidently alarmed whoever it was, for the knob was
released, and nothing more happened. By this time anything so
uncomplicated as the fumbling of a knob at night had no power to disturb
me, and I went back to bed and to sleep.

In the morning Mr. Harbison repaired the telephone, and he reported that
it had been deliberately disconnected by some one. The wires were cut
through, where they came into the house, and it looked as though it had
been done by some practised hand. That was Friday.

The first thing we did, of course, was to order something to eat, and
Aunt Selina went to bed with indigestion just after luncheon. No one was
very sorry, for she had been unpleasant all morning. In the afternoon
she thought she was dying, and she sent for Bella and Jim, and they made
it all up. She went to sleep holding a hand of each of them, and slept
three hours and never let go!

About two in the afternoon the sun came out, and the rest of us went to
the roof. The sleet had melted and the air was fairly warm. Two
housemaids dusting rugs on the top of the next house came over and
stared at us, and somebody in an automobile down on Riverside Drive
stood up and waved at us. It was very cheerful, and hopelessly lonely.
Max, who had been almost savage to me for two days, came over and sat
down on the parapet beside me.

“Have you happened to notice,” he began, “that our friend Jim ate no
luncheon?”

“I haven’t noticed Jim at all,” I flashed, my last night’s humiliation
still in my mind.

“If somebody would put the question up to me,” Max went on didactically,
“I would say that James is not well. He looks queer, and, to be quite
truthful, I think he has a rash.”

“Don’t be an alarmist,” I said. “Anyhow, Jim may have anything he wants,
for all I am interested.”

I stayed on the roof after the others had gone, and for some time I
thought I was alone. After awhile, however, I got a whiff of smoke, and
then I saw Mr. Harbison far over in the corner, one foot on the parapet,
moodily smoking a pipe. He was gazing out over the river, and paying no
attention to me. This was natural, considering that I had hardly spoken
to him since Thursday.

I would not let him drive me away, so I sat still, and it grew darker
and colder. He filled his pipe now and then, but he never looked in my
direction. Finally, however, as it grew very dusk, he knocked the ashes
out and came toward me.

“I am going to make a request, Miss McNair,” he said evenly. “Please
keep off the roof after sunset. There are—reasons.” I had risen and was
preparing to go downstairs.

“Unless I know the reasons, I refuse to do anything of the kind,” I
retorted. He bowed.

“Then the door will be kept locked,” he rejoined, and opened it for me.
He did not follow me, but stood watching until I was down, and I heard
him close the roof door firmly behind me.

It is hardly necessary to go into the incidents of that evening: how
they took Jim aside and inspected him, and how Max was right; how they
tried to talk Jim over, and how he refused to be quarantined and said he
always got a rash from early strawberries, and that they were a lot of
fools, and he hoped to thunder if he _did_ have it they’d all get it.
The only way they got him shut away in one of the servants’ rooms was by
Bella promising to sit outside in the hall and read to him through the
closed door. When the doctor came he said it looked suspicious, and he
put him on a liquid diet and said he could tell us positively in the
morning.

Late that evening Betty Mercer and Dallas were writing verses of
condolence, to be signed by all of us and sent to Jim, when Bella came
running down the stairs.

“Jim’s delirious,” she announced tragically from the doorway. “You shut
him in there, all alone, and now he’s delirious. I’ll never forgive any
of you.”

Dal wanted to go up at once, but Anne wouldn’t let him. So Max went,
with Bella following, and I telephoned for the doctor again. But Max
came down after awhile, and said Jim wasn’t delirious at all, and then
he took Dal and Mr. Harbison into the den, and they talked for an hour.
Just before they came out they sent for Flannigan. It was very
mysterious.

Nothing more happened that evening, and the next day, Saturday, was
quiet enough. The doctor was still in doubt about Jim. Max proposed to
me in the afternoon, while the rest were conversing with Jim through a
closed door. He said he hadn’t really had any hope, but he thought he
would feel better if he got it out of his system. And he said if he took
anything from Jim and died, he wanted me to remember him kindly.

From that Saturday night until Monday night, when the final event
occurred, there was a succession of mysterious events. In the first
place, that evening Flannigan came upstairs to the library and called
all the men into the hall. Before they closed the door I had time to see
a sort of rope, that seemed to be made of all kinds of things tied
together, trunk straps, bed sheets, and something of Flannigan’s that he
pointed to with rage, and said he hadn’t been able to keep his clothes
on all day. When the men came back, they refused to discuss the matter,
and long after the feminine contingent had gone to bed, I could hear
them talking downstairs.

Betty Mercer came into my room very early Sunday morning and said Anne
Brown wanted me. I went over at once, and Anne was sitting up in bed,
crying. Dal had slipped out of the room at daylight, she said, and
hadn’t come back. He had thought she was asleep, but she wasn’t, and she
knew he was dead, for nothing ever made Dal get up on Sunday before
noon.

There was no one moving in the house, and I hardly knew what to do. It
was Betty who said she would go up and rouse Mr. Harbison and Max, who
had taken Jim’s place in the studio. She started out bravely enough, but
in a minute we heard her flying back. Anne grew perfectly white.

“He’s lying on the upper stairs!” Betty cried, and we all ran out. It
was quite true. Dal was lying on the stairs in a bath-robe, with one of
Jim’s Indian war-clubs in his hand. And he was sound asleep!

He looked somewhat embarrassed when he roused and saw us standing
around. He said he was going to play a practical joke on somebody and
fell asleep in the middle of it. And Anne said he wasn’t even an
intelligent liar, and went back to bed in a temper. But Betty came in
with me, and we sat and looked at each other and didn’t say much. The
situation was beyond us.

On that evening—Sunday—the really serious event of the quarantine
occurred. It had grown stormy again, and Mr. Harbison went up to the
roof to see how the tent stood the strain. He was gone a long
time—fully an hour—and finally Betty Mercer, who had really hung
around him quite noticeably all day—Betty said he must have blown away,
and Dallas went to look for him. In a few minutes Dal came racing
downstairs and called Max, and of course the entire party followed like
the tail of a comet. We passed Bella, fast asleep in the upper hall, in
a chair, her head against a sheet wrung out of disinfectant nailed
across the door of Jim’s room. She roused when she heard us, and
followed, still yawning, along the hall and up to the roof.

Max had turned on the electric lights, and was kneeling over something
that lay prone on the tin. It was Mr. Harbison, quite unconscious, and
bleeding from a cut over one eye. I tried to ask if he were dead, but my
lips were stiff with horror. And then he opened his eyes, and said he
was awfully sorry but he didn’t dance, and went off again.

Well, it’s too terrible to go over. They got him downstairs to the
studio and made him as comfortable as they could, and we sent for the
doctor again. By daylight there was a trained nurse in charge, and we
were all shut out, and there was nothing to do but sit and wait. It was
awful!

About noon they let Jim out. It seems there was nothing the matter with
him but a stomach rash. Then the four men, including Flannigan, went to
the roof and stayed a long time. I know, for I was in the upper hall
outside the studio. I stayed there most of the day and got things that
the nurse needed. I don’t know why mother didn’t let me study nursing—I
always wanted to do it. And I felt so helpless and childish now, when
there were things to be done.

I caught Max as the men came down, and drew him aside.

“You’ll have to tell me something, Max,” I said. “I’m going crazy. What
does it all mean? Who hurt him?”

Max looked at me quite a long time. “I’m darned if I understand you
women,” he said gravely. “I thought you disliked Harbison.”

“So I do—I did,” I supplemented. “But some one has injured him——”

“Pooh! Ran into a chimney,” Max interrupted. “Or do you think I tried to
brain him?” But his lightness did not deceive me.

The day dragged on. Downstairs people ate and read and wrote letters,
and outside newspaper men talked together and gazed over at the house
and photographed the doctor coming in and the doctor going out. As for
me, I sat in Bella’s chair in the upper hall, and listened to the
crackle of the nurse’s starched skirts.

About midnight that night the doctor made his final trip, and when he
came out he was smiling.

“He’s doing very well, Miss McNair,” he said. “He’s partly conscious
now, and in about an hour you can let the nurse here have a little
sleep. Don’t let him talk.”

And so at last I went through the familiar door into an unfamiliar room,
with basins and towels and bottles around and a screen made of Jim’s
largest canvases, and some one on the improvised bed tried to turn and
look at me. He did not speak, and I sat down beside him; after awhile he
put his hand over mine as it lay on the bed.

“You are much better to me than I deserve,” he said softly. And because
his eyes were disconcerting, I put an ice cloth promptly over them.

“Much better than you deserve,” I said gently, and patted the cloth to
place. We were very quiet for a long time. I think he dozed, and when he
roused he was more himself. He took the cloth off at once, and looked
around for me.

“Can’t you sit here beside me?” he asked. “You are miles away.” It was
three feet. So I sat down close to him, for he was not to be excited.

“It’s awfully good of you to do this,” he said finally. “I’ve been
desperately sorry, Kit—about the other night. I was mad—crazy.”

“Don’t talk about it,” I interrupted, and tried to give him his
medicine. He pushed the spoon aside.

“But I want to talk about it,” he persisted. “I think about it all the
time. You seemed so convinced that I was a blackguard
that—somehow—nothing seemed to matter.”

“What is happening downstairs?” I asked, for there were all kinds of
sounds coming up. But the man on the bed was not going to be put off.

“When I thought you were married to Wilson, it was bad enough, God
knows. And then—I learned you were not, and it went to my head. I was
almost delirious that night. The instant I held you in my arms it was
all over. I loved you the first time I saw you, Kit. I suppose I’m a
fool to talk like this.”

“Then there must be two of us,” I said, half crying, half smiling. And I
slid on my knees beside him.

At that instant Dallas opened the door and stepped into the room. He was
covered with dirt and he had a hatchet in his hand. He was a fierce and
triumphant object. “Well, the mystery is solved,” he shouted. “Why, Kit,
I’m ashamed of you! Get up off your knees.”




                                  XIV.


Letter from Thomas Harbison, late Engineer of Bridges, Peruvian Trunk
Lines, South America, to Henry Llewellyn, Union Nitrate Co., Iquique,
Chili.

    DEAR OLD MAN:

    This will go on the same steamer as my last letter of six days
    ago—or is it six years? Read the other one first. It may
    prepare you for this. Hal, she wasn’t married at all! She was
    the victim of a conspiracy to deceive the spinster aunt—that is
    all. The real wife is Miss Bella Knowles, the lady of the
    basement, you remember, who divorced her liege and then
    regretted it. So she wasn’t married,—Miss McNair,—but she will
    be soon. You’re to take the very next boat and come up here, and
    we’ll all go back on the _Gadfly_.

    We cabled her mother at Bermuda, and talked to her father over
    long distance to Chicago this morning. We will have to wait
    until they get back, I suppose.

    I think I am excited, and I know I am not lucid, but the
    quarantine was lifted two hours ago. It seems there was nothing
    much the matter with the Jap. For the other events, read the
    enclosed clipping from this morning’s paper. You can imagine the
    excitement we had. Now it is all over, I don’t mind telling you
    that I put in a bad seven days. We were a lot of idiots not to
    have thought of the real explanation. We had stepped over that
    box of soap dozens of times.

    Now remember—the next steamer for yours. I believe it’s to be
    in a church, and you’ll have to stand by me, old man. I’m in a
    blue funk when I think about it. Happy days.

                                                    Yours,
                                                                TOM

Bella Knowles (ex-Wilson) to Mr. Reginald Barry Wolfe, Palm Beach, Fla.

    DEAR REG:

    Don’t bother about the mare, Reg. I am going to Italy and shall
    not need her. Of course by the time you get this you’ll have
    heard. I think people owe me a vote of thanks for giving them
    something to talk about. Now, Reg dear, Jim and I are going
    abroad until the excitement is over, and I want you to see that
    the _real_ version gets out. Tell everybody that I was thrown
    out of the car just at the corner of Ninety-fifth and West End
    Avenue, and while I was unconscious the policeman on the beat
    recognized me and carried me to Jim’s. We were quarantined
    there, policeman and all. The enclosed newspaper cutting will
    prove this, for you see the policeman is mentioned.

    We are all getting ready to leave, but such an excitement as we
    have had! One of the men, a Mr. Harbison, was almost murdered.
    In fact, I wonder we were not all assassinated.

    Would you like to help Jim again through the ceremony? He says
    he never feels married unless you are around.

                                            Hastily yours,
                                                              BELLA

Clipped from the _Evening Chronicle_ of Monday, February the tenth.

                            ROBBERIES SOLVED

    QUARANTINE AT WILSON HOME LIFTED UNDER UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES

    On the discovery that the Japanese butler was suffering from
    nothing more serious than chicken-pox, the quarantine at the
    home of James Wilson, millionaire and artist, was lifted to-day.
    Immediately after, the representative of the _Chronicle_
    obtained from the several victims a detailed account of the
    strange events which culminated in the call for the police at
    two o’clock this morning.

    Eleven persons were shut in the house seven days ago, during a
    dinner party. Of the eleven, nine were well known New York
    people, prominent in social and financial circles. A tenth,
    Officer Flannigan, suffered imprisonment in pursuit of his duty,
    and has been mentioned for promotion in his district.

    Immediately after the quarantine, and while the house was
    closely guarded by health officers and newspaper men, strange
    events began to take place. The first night a pearl collar and a
    diamond bracelet were missing. Shortly after, Miss Caruthers, an
    aunt of Mr. Wilson, was robbed of ten thousand dollars in cash
    and some antique jewelry of great value. A watch also
    disappeared, and telephone wires were mysteriously cut.

    The culmination of the mystery came on Saturday night, when Mr.
    Thomas Harbison, one of the party, was found unconscious and
    badly injured on the roof of the house. When Mr. Harbison became
    conscious, he told certain suspicions to the masculine members
    of the party, but, notwithstanding vigorous efforts, nothing was
    discovered until one o’clock this morning. At that time,
    according to the victims of this miscarriage of municipal
    justice, the entire household was asleep, except one man, Mr.
    Dallas Brown, well known as the M.F.H. of the Cloverly Hunt
    Club. Mr. Brown, for certain reasons, had stationed himself in a
    dark corner near the head of the lower stairs. For some time the
    house was quiet. Then his attention was aroused by peculiar
    scraping noises in the rear of the house. Hastily arousing Mr.
    Maxwell Reed, whose room was near, they proceeded to
    investigate. The noises were finally traced to the dumb-waiter
    shaft, and on investigation the cage was found to have stuck
    fast between two floors. Stifled oaths and groans were
    proceeding from the cage, and the cables were being violently
    agitated. As soon as the two gentlemen understood the situation,
    they sent in a police call, and after two hours of hard work the
    cage was lowered to the basement kitchen and the prisoner
    released.

    Gaunt, unshaven, and dirty, the police had no difficulty in
    recognizing Lawrence McGuirk, better known as “Tubby McGuirk,”
    celebrated second story-man and all-round thief, whose absence
    from his accustomed haunts has troubled the central station for
    a week.

    Realizing that he was caught, McGuirk led the way to a box of
    soap in the cellar, and unearthed, or unsoaped, his booty. Of
    his experiences in the quarantined house, of his attempts to
    escape by means of a board, a home-made rope, and a hole in the
    cellar, of his midnight prowlings in search of food, of days in
    a closet in one of the servants’ rooms, and of nights when he
    wandered, shivering, in search of bedclothing—all these things
    McGuirk described feelingly. He seemed glad to talk, after his
    week’s silence, and spoke at length of the struggle he had made
    to hide the pearl collar. For three days, he said, it was
    concealed in the pocket of an old smoking-coat in Mr. Wilson’s
    studio.

    Surrounded by hapless society folk whose plight he had helped to
    render unendurable, McGuirk was hand-cuffed and led away. At the
    doorway a rather unusual incident occurred. Miss Caruthers, aunt
    of Mr. Wilson and chaperon of the party, stepped forward and
    confronted the prisoner.

    “Young man,” she said grimly, “I’ll thank you to return what you
    took from _me_ last Tuesday night.”

    McGuirk stared, then shuddered and turned suddenly pale.

    “Good Lord!” he ejaculated. “On the stairs to the roof! _You!_”

    Miss Caruthers and the remainder of the party professed absolute
    ignorance as to his meaning,—and quite broken, McGuirk was
    taken away.

    At the door he waved his hand to the circle of reporters and
    policemen who had so faithfully guarded the house for a week.

    “Good-by, fellows,” he called feebly. “I ain’t sorry, I ain’t.
    Jail’ll be paradise after this.”

Note to Miss Kit McNair written by Mr. Thomas Harbison on back of a
trunk tag.

    Don’t you know I won’t see you until to-morrow! For heaven’s
    sake, get away from this crowd and come into the den. If you
    don’t, I will kiss you good-by before everybody. Are you coming?

                                                                 T.
                  (Written below, in a feminine hand)
                               No indeed.
                  (This was scratched out and beneath)
                                Coming.
                                