In the year 1854 Mrs. Lauriston’s London drawing-room was as ugly as
contemporary taste could make it. This is saying much, but not too much.

The June sunshine slanted in, and rested with unsparing candour upon a
cabbage-coloured carpet patterned with monstrous magenta blooms of
uncertain family. Gloomy oil-paintings in gorgeous, fog-dimmed frames
covered the greater part of the wall space.

Helen Wilmot had never been able to decide whether she thought the
wall-paper uglier than the portraits, or the portraits more frightful
than the wall-paper. She found a certain fascination in following the
immense green curves and spirals that wound and twisted between the
pictures. She had a fancy that there in secret, behind the unattractive
presentments of great-uncle James and great-aunt Maria, that ebullient
vegetable growth must burst into flower. She had beguiled many a dull
half-hour by speculating as to the sort of bloom it would produce, and
had decided ultimately on an orchidaceous nightmare of orange and
maroon. The stamens, she thought, would be green—a very bright
green—and they would bear monstrous pollen sacs of a pale, unwholesome
pink.

In the middle of the room stood a large round table. It was made of
handsome polished wood, very good and solid. Everything that stood on it
had its own little mat. The photograph album with the gold initials on a
ground of crimson plush lay upon a miniature carpet of emerald silk and
wool. A daguerreotype in a folding frame stood by itself on a little
orange-coloured island. It was a likeness of Mr. Lauriston, and his
widow used to gaze tearfully at it when her sister Harriet was more
masterful than usual, or her daughter Adela harder to manage.

Mrs. Lauriston was a pretty, faded little woman of uncertain health. All
the strong colour in the room annihilated her own delicate tints. It
accentuated the grey in the fair hair which she wore dressed _à
l’Impératrice_, and drew attention to the fine, interlacing lines about
her mouth and eyes. She wore a beige-coloured dress, and the sofa which
she so seldom left was upholstered in dark maroon to match the curtains.
Only Helen thought it ugly, but then Helen had spent nearly all her
twenty years of life with her mother’s people, and her grandmother, old
Mrs. Delamere, had possessed many beautiful things, some brought from
India, and some inherited from her French relations.

Helen Wilmot looked at her aunt now, and thought for the hundredth time
that she was like a water-colour-drawing—an amateur
water-colour-drawing. There were the same pretty tints, all faint and
indeterminate, the same weak lines, and absence of definition. She made
up her mind that she would like to see Mrs. Lauriston in a room full of
soft old faded things, with a little very pale gilding here and there.
Helen was very fond of making pictures in her own mind. She would have
liked to paint them, but she lacked the skill, and had sense to know
that she lacked it.

If Mrs. Lauriston was like a water-colour, Helen herself resembled an
etching. Her pallor had the same warm, living quality, and the shadows
on her hair and dress, the same deep tone.

She sat by the window with her lap full of embroidery silks, that shone
like jewels against the black of her full skirt. The sunlight just
glanced across one sloping shoulder and threw her head into strong
relief. She was all black and white in the strong light—white skin,
white hands, white neck, white collar; black dress, black hair, and eyes
that looked black too until she raised them, and you saw that they were
a very deep, soft grey.

She raised them now because Mrs. Lauriston made a little restless
movement.

“Helen, my dear.”

“Yes, Aunt Lucy.”

“Did I hear a carriage?”

Helen took a fold of her dress in one hand, so as to keep her silks from
slipping, and leaned sideways towards the window. One corner of her
mouth twitched a little, and she caught it between her teeth.

“Well, my dear?” said Mrs. Lauriston, fidgeting, and Helen turned a
perfectly grave face towards her.

“Dear Aunt Lucy, I was counting; I had just got up to ten——”

“Ten?”

“Ten carriages. I think the very fat lady at No. 12 must be giving a
party.”

“My dear, what has that to do with us? Oh, my love, you don’t say the
window is open! How exceedingly careless of Mary! Pray shut it. The
least breath—and really to-day when I feel so unequal, and Harriet
coming. Not, of course,” she explained, collecting herself, “that I am
not very pleased to see your Aunt Harriet—very pleased indeed.”

“Oh, of course,” murmured Helen, and bent her head over a tangled skein.

Mrs. Lauriston put her handkerchief to her lips for a moment.

“Yes, of course,” she said nervously, “but at the same time, love, your
Aunt Harriet—she is sure to talk so much about Hetty, and Hetty’s
marriage, and you know so much conversation—and then I think she was
rather offended at my not coming to the wedding, and I have not seen her
since, so altogether——”

“Yes,” said Helen without a smile, “conversation about Hetty is rather
tiring.”

“And that she should have made such a match!” exclaimed Mrs. Lauriston
with sudden energy; “Sir Henry Lavington, and all that money, and Hetty
always _was_ plain.”

“Plain and sensible. I don’t know which is worse, but I suppose he
wanted a sensible wife,” remarked Helen.

“My love, you should not disparage sense. I am sure you have plenty. Now
if Sir Henry had fallen in love with you! But Hetty—it is more than I
can understand. Hetty never attracted me, my dear, but of course her
mother could not be expected to understand that, nor should I wish it.”

Helen laid a blue and a green skein together, and wished that the
bluebells were not over, and that she was not in London.

“Shall I leave you and Aunt Harriet for a little when she comes, Aunt
Lucy?” she asked.

“Oh, no, my dear, not at first—oh, no. If I thought I should like a
little private talk with her later on, I could let you know. It would be
quite easy. I could ask you to fetch me a handkerchief, or my smelling
salts, and you need not come back for a time; but at first—oh, I really
think it will be a relief to have you here, my dear. Harriet is _all_
that is excellent, but you know my nerves are not very strong, and if
she is offended—no, no, my love, I had much rather you stayed.”

Mrs. Lauriston’s soft voice fluttered as she spoke. She patted a
refractory cushion into position, and settled herself against it.

“I hope Adela will come in before your aunt leaves,” she said, and
sighed a little. “I am afraid Harriet will think she should have been at
home; but really, just now, my dear child, one is so anxious, it does
not seem as if one should interfere, and Mrs. Willoughby was so very
eager to have her.”

“Oh, she is sure to be home early because of Hetty’s party this
evening,” said Helen, cheerfully.

Mrs. Lauriston clasped her hands.

“Helen, do you think—” she began, and then paused, panting a little.

“My dear, are you in Adela’s confidence at all?”

Helen looked up with a shade on her brow.

“No, I don’t think I am,” she said.

“And I certainly am not,” said Adela’s mother; “and oh, my love, I feel
so anxious, so very anxious. Young Manners now—do you suppose—do you
imagine that Adela means to accept him?”

“I am sure I hope not,” said Miss Wilmot with decision.

“Oh, but, my dear, why should you say that? Such a good-looking young
man, such splendid dark eyes—I always think dark eyes are so
romantic—and so devoted. I really never saw anything like his devotion!
And then Manners Park, and such a satisfactory provision.”

“Yes,” said Helen. She stopped to thread a needle. “Yes, if he is able
to establish his claim.”

“Oh, my dear, surely there is no doubt about that. It would be most
unfair. Why, his father was a cousin of Mr. Lauriston’s
great-grandmother, or was it his grandmother’s step-mother was a
Manners? He could never be passed over, and his mother a lady of such
high rank, sister—or is it cousin?—to that wealthy Rajah of Bithoor,
whose portrait Mr. Azimullah showed us, and who, he said, would be a
sort of Emperor, only we have taken away his kingdom, or stopped the
revenues, but fortunately he has plenty of money of his own besides. Oh,
no, Francis Manners is certain to succeed with his claim, and his
father’s marriage so romantic too.”

“Dear Aunt Lucy,” said Helen, half laughing. Then she bit her lip. “He
has to prove that there was a marriage,” she said.

She took a few delicate stitches and did not look at her aunt.

“My love, you shock me,” exclaimed Mrs. Lauriston. A faint colour made
her look younger. “You shock me, indeed you do. Colonel Manners was
married. To suppose otherwise—Helen, my dear! I think, love, that you
should struggle with that unfortunate prejudice against persons with
dark blood in their veins. It is that which puts such shocking ideas
into your head. Mr. Azimullah now, so handsome, such charming manners,
but I notice how you avoid him when he comes here. You get it from your
father, I suppose. In fact I have observed that all Anglo-Indians are
the same. I fear going to India and joining your father will not improve
you. It is an unchristian prejudice, love, not that of course I would
for a moment seek to imply that dear Edward was unchristian. I do hope,
my dear, you would not imagine such a thing, or your excellent
grandmother, and after she had brought you up so nicely, and to be such
a good girl, and now that she is dead and all. No, no, my dear, all I
meant was that prejudices of this nature should be struggled against;
and oh, Helen, my dear, you won’t try to imbue Adela with such notions?
I am so anxious, so very anxious about her future. You know, love, there
will be so little, oh, so little when I am gone, and Adela is so
beautiful.”

Mrs. Lauriston’s voice trembled very much, and became almost inaudible.

Helen dropped all her silks on the floor, and ran to her. “Dear Aunt
Lucy, what is it? Why do you trouble yourself? Adela is beautiful, and
there are much nicer people to fall in love with her than poor Mr.
Manners.”

“No, no. There’s only Captain Morton, and he is poor, and Adela is not
fit to be poor, and go to India,—and I want to see her married before I
die.”

“You are going to live to be a great-grandmother like old aunt Maria,”
said Helen, kissing one of the trembling hands. “Only you’ll make a
much, much nicer one, and all the great-grandchildren will love you.”

“My dear, you shouldn’t. Oh, Helen, love——”

“What is it, dearest?”

“My health,” whispered Mrs. Lauriston.

Helen gave her a little pat.

“You are just delicate, and delicate people always live the longest.
Yes, it is quite true. Grandmamma always said so. And there’s nothing
really wrong with you, is there?”

“I don’t know,” said Mrs. Lauriston in a low, hurried tone. Her eyes
looked past Helen as if she saw something that frightened her.

“Now, Aunt Lucy, dear,” said Helen cheerfully, “don’t upset yourself.
Adela will make a splendid match, and live happy ever after, and you
will spoil her children, and they will adore you, and—oh, that really
is the carriage at last.”

In a moment Mrs. Lauriston was all in a flutter. Death and marriage were
uncertain, but Harriet was at the door. “Oh, my dear, my eyes. Do they
look red? Give me my handkerchief, and then push it under the cushion in
case I want to send you for one—and move that chair a little, no, not
so close, yes, that will do. Oh, I wish Adela were in, but there, her
aunt never was really fond of her, and—Helen, my vinaigrette—yes, it
fell down, I think. Have you found it? Oh, thank you, my dear.”

The door opened as she took the little cut glass bottle. The maid
announced Mrs. Middleton, and Harriet Middleton came into the room with
a great rustling of violet silk.

She wore a shawl of China crêpe and an immensely full skirt trimmed with
seven rows of broad black velvet ribbon. On her head was a bonnet with
an inner frill of blonde, showing the abundant black hair which always
looked as if it had been freshly lacquered. She had a handsome, wooden
face, with very smooth, dark eyebrows, and firm red cheeks. Her voice
was as strong and deep as a man’s.

One of the red cheeks just brushed her sister’s pale one, and she
settled herself into the chair which Helen proffered.

“Well, Lucy, you look poorly enough,” she remarked, “but what else you
can expect when you lie on a sofa all day, I don’t know. How d’ye do,
Helen. Come here, and let me have a look at you. How long is it since I
saw you last?”

Helen appeared to be giving the matter her earnest attention. “About two
years, I _think_, Aunt Harriet,” she said.

Mrs. Middleton looked disapprovingly at her niece. The light caught her
prominent brown eyes and gave them a shiny look. They reminded Helen of
small bull’s-eyes.

“You are as pale as a piece of plaster too, and less like Edward than
ever. And where on earth you and Adela got that untidy frizzly hair
from, I am sure I don’t know. None of our family ever had such a thing.
My girls have both got hair like mine, I am thankful to say, nice,
smooth hair that can be kept tidy, and plenty of it. But a great deal
can be done with pomatum. Wilkin’s is the best. I will send you a pot to
try. I gave one to Adela when she came down for Hetty’s wedding. Has she
used it?”

Helen looked interested, and Mrs. Lauriston observed feebly:

“Adela wears her hair in ringlets.”

“And very untidy she looked. That was why I gave her the pomatum, Lucy;
but, of course, if you encourage her—By the way, where is Adela?”

“Adela has—has gone out. She had an engagement, Harriet—she was so
sorry——”

“An engagement—without you?”

“My health,” faltered Mrs. Lauriston. “I am unable to take Adela out
myself, and Mrs. Willoughby has been most kind.”

Mrs. Middleton snorted.

“I always took my girls about myself. I felt it a duty. But if you are
really unable to go out with Adela, I must say, Lucy, that I should have
thought Hetty, her own cousin, a more suitable chaperon than Mrs.
Willoughby.”

“Hetty is so young,” began Mrs. Lauriston, flushing.

“Hetty is a married woman, and exceptionally discreet for her years. She
would at least have prevented Adela from getting herself talked about,”
said Mrs. Middleton with emphasis.

“Harriet!”

Mrs. Middleton unfastened her shawl and threw it back. She had come on
purpose to talk to Lucy about her daughter, but she had meant to lead up
to the point more gradually.

“Your room is stifling,” she observed. “Helen, won’t that window open?”

“I think it will,” said Helen, but she did not get up.

“Harriet, what do you mean?” cried Mrs. Lauriston.

“It is an extremely hot afternoon, and you have everything closed,”
began Mrs. Middleton, but for once her sister interrupted her.

“Harriet, what did you mean about Adela?”

“My dear Lucy, how you agitate yourself. What did I say?”

“You said—you implied that Adela was being talked about.”

“Well, Lucy, and what can you expect when you let her go about with a
flighty young woman like Mrs. Willoughby, and pick up with illegitimate,
half-caste young men?”

“Harriet!”

“My dear Lucy, what is the use of taking that tone? Every one is talking
about it. I wish I had come to town two months ago.”

Mrs. Lauriston caught at her dignity with tremulous hands.

“Mr. Manners is an excellent young man, his father was a cousin of Mr.
Lauriston’s,” she said. “He is devoted to Adela, and when he has
established his claim to the Manners estates——”

“Really, Lucy! is it possible that you have encouraged him?”

“And why not, Harriet?”

“Lucy, are you crazy? Why not? Why not?”

“He is Colonel Manners’s son.”

“And his mother?”

“I don’t understand you, Harriet. His mother was a native lady of rank,
or so I understood.”

“And the proofs of the marriage?”

“Mr. Manners certainly has ample proof.”

“Mr. Manners certainly has no proof at all,” said Mrs. Middleton, and
saw her sister whiten.

“Oh, Harriet!”

“He has no proof at all,” she repeated. “I felt it my duty to let you
know at once. He consulted Mortimer James, and Mortimer told Hetty that
there was no proof at all—absolutely none—that would justify any
respectable firm of solicitors in taking up the case; I felt you could
not know the truth too soon.”

Mrs. Lauriston burst into tears.

“Now, Lucy, for mercy’s sake don’t cry. Adela has got herself into a
mess, as I always foretold that she would, but we must do what we can.
How far has it gone? They are not engaged?”

“Oh, no,” sobbed Mrs. Lauriston. “Oh, Helen, dear love, where is my
handkerchief? Oh, my dear, what a dreadful thing! Adela is so
wilful——”

“Aunt Lucy, dear, please——”

“Adela is so wilful. She will make friends that I cannot approve of,
Mrs. Willoughby now, and Mr. Manners. Of course being as it were a
cousin—only now I come to think of it, it was Mr. Lauriston’s
grandmother’s step-mother who was a Miss Manners, so one cannot say that
there is any relationship, can one?”

Helen said, “No, one couldn’t,” and Mrs. Lauriston went on talking and
dabbing her eyes, from which flowed a constant effortless stream of
tears.

“And not being a relation, even if he is legitimate, only I shouldn’t
talk of such things to you, Helen, I can say now that there was always
something I did not _quite_ like about Mr. Manners. He never seemed to
me to be quite—quite straightforward, and of course Adela thought those
dark eyes of his so romantic, but to me dark eyes are a little
unreliable. Now, blue eyes—so becoming with sunburn—a soldier should
be sunburned—and don’t you think, Harriet, that people with dark blood
in them are never _quite_ reliable and straightforward?”

Mrs. Middleton tapped with her foot upon the cabbage-coloured carpet.

“Is Captain Morton sunburned, and has he blue eyes?” she inquired drily.

“He has, Aunt Harriet,” said Helen with equal dryness.

“And so much in love with Adela, and really such a fine man, though I
find him just a little trying to my nerves. I never seem to know whether
he means quite what he says, or not, and he has a way of fixing his eyes
on one that makes one feel as if he were reading all the secrets of
one’s past.”

Mrs. Middleton gave an angry sniff.

“My dear Lucy, you never had a secret in your life,” she ejaculated, but
Mrs. Lauriston took no notice. She had stopped dabbing her eyes, and
looked quite cheerful.

“Yes, really most piercing eyes,” she murmured, “but when he looks at
Adela, it is quite touching, they soften so—his devotion——”

“And his prospects?” inquired Mrs. Middleton in tones of sisterly
contempt.

“Oh, my dear Harriet, he really has a brilliant future before him. He
distinguished himself very greatly at the siege of—of—no, I have
forgotten the name—Helen, love, what was the name?”

“Multan,” said Helen Wilmot.

“Yes, yes—of course, when those two poor men were killed. Captain—oh,
dear, it has gone again—Helen love, the names of those two poor
fellows. Oh, of course, Mr. Anderson and Mr. Vans Agnew. They were
murdered, you know, and that wonderful Major Edwardes collected an army,
and Captain Morton was with him, and they did the most extraordinary
things, and Captain Morton was wounded in the head—such an escape——”

“Yes—yes,” said Mrs. Middleton impatiently.

“One can’t be too thankful——”

“Well, Lucy, what I should like to know is this—how much _is_ there to
be thankful for? He is not dependent on his prospects in the future, and
his pay in the present, is he?”

“I think there was an uncle—I think he said an uncle had died and left
him something. I know I did not really listen, because I felt so
uncomfortable at his telling me—so pointed—and I never thought
then——”

Mrs. Middleton opened her mouth, and then shut it again firmly. She had
a strong desire to speak her mind, but a stronger desire to see her
niece Adela married; she controlled herself, therefore, and talked at
large about Hetty, and Hetty’s glory, only returning to Adela’s affairs
in the calm of the tea-hour.

Finally, she resumed her shawl, pinned it across her chest with a very
large cameo brooch, bordered with plaited hair, rose majestically, and
pecked at her sister’s cheek.

“You are not going?”

“I must get back. I promised Hetty. Now, Lucy, take my advice, get Adela
safely married to this Captain Morton. Once a girl has got herself
talked about, her chances are gone. _Especially_ if she is pretty.
People always believe the worst of a pretty girl—get her married.
Goodness me, Lucy, what is the use of looking at me like that? If no one
else tells you the truth, I do—I always did, and I always shall, and
perhaps some day you will be grateful to me. Good-bye, Helen. When do
you sail for India? Hasn’t Edward sent the money for your passage yet?
Oh, he has. Well, it is time. Your grandmother has been dead six months,
and really if Lucy had not been able to take you in, I don’t know what
you would have done. _I_ couldn’t have invited you for the best part of
a year.”

When Helen had taken her aunt downstairs, she came back into the
drawing-room and shut the door. She was smiling a little.

“Poor Sir Henry,” she said.

“Oh, my dear, why?” protested Mrs. Lauriston, a little shocked that any
one should pity a baronet with fifteen thousand a year.

“Hetty is going to be exactly like Aunt Harriet. That’s why,” said
Helen.




                               CHAPTER II
               HOW CAPTAIN MORTON TALKED ABOUT DISCIPLINE


Serve seven years for Honour and seven years for Love.
The children of Honour are many, thou shalt ’stablish them, branch and
  root.
And what of the children of Love, shall Love then bear no fruit?
Sufficient unto the day is the good and the evil thereof.

As Adela Lauriston crossed the ballroom at Lavington House a good many
people watched her, and then turned to whisper with their friends.

Adela was worth looking at. Even Hetty Lavington admitted that, though
her round, prominent eyes were full of disapproval as she observed her
cousin, and noted that it was on Francis Manners’s arm that she was
leaving the room. “Really!” she said, in a low angry voice, and Sir
Henry Lavington, who knew very well what she meant, tried to look as
disapproving as he was expected to. He did not really find it very easy.
A good many people had expected Adela Lauriston to stand in her cousin
Hetty’s place. Hetty Middleton’s engagement had come as a great surprise
to these people. Rumour even had it that it had come as a surprise to
Sir Henry himself. He looked away from Hetty in her diamonds, and her
unbecoming dress, and his eyes followed Adela, as she went lightly and
proudly down the long room; she was not tall, but how well she moved,
and how all these lights flattered her!

Her hair, a dark chestnut in colour, fell all about her shoulders, in a
shower of curls,—those curls to which Harriet Middleton objected so
strongly. They shaded a face which Greuze might have painted, and were
caught over the ear on either side by a scarlet geranium. Adela’s
colouring stood the test triumphantly, for her lips were as red as the
flowers, and the tint in her cheeks, though much fainter, was just as
pure and fine.

From under arched brows, her hazel eyes looked smilingly upon all this
crowd of people who must be admiring her in her new dress. It was her
last glance in the mirror that had waked the smile. She carried with her
a pleasant memory of many white silk flounces, all veiled with blonde,
and caught up here and there with vivid clusters of geranium flowers.

She smiled very sweetly under Francis Manners’s admiring gaze, and her
modestly dropped eyes caught a faint reflection of her white and scarlet
bravery from the polished floor at her feet.

“By Jove, that’s a pretty girl!” said Freddy Carlton, half to himself,
and then, being a communicative soul, he turned to his neighbour, and
received a shock.

“What, you, Dick! Lord, what brings you to a dance?”

“Hullo, Ginger!” said Captain Richard Morton. He looked down at the top
of Freddy’s head with affection.

“And what brings you?” he said. “I didn’t know you were home.”

“Just come. Jolly glad to be out of the romantic East too. Lavington is
my second cousin fourteen times removed. I say, fourteen times isn’t too
much for his wife, is it? But what on earth brings you here? You’ve
never been learning to dance?”

Captain Morton looked a little rueful.

“A cousin of mine tried to teach me once. You remember Floss
Monteith—and she said it wasn’t any use. You see I’m rather large to go
about treading on people—at least that is what she said, and now with
all these flounces and fallals that girls wear——”

Freddy had an inward spasm.

“Old Dick dancing—my stars! I wonder who she is,” he said to himself,
and then aloud:

“I say, who is that jolly pretty girl who is just going out? No, not the
one in pink, the other one, with the fellow who looks as if he’d been
dipped in the ink over night and hadn’t got it all off?”

Captain Morton drew his brows together. A moment before his eyes had
been very blue and gay. Now they darkened.

“That is Miss Lauriston,” he said, and Freddy had another little spasm,
and said to himself, “The one and only!”

“And who’s the man? If it weren’t England I’d give him about eight annas
in the rupee.”

“Intelligent Frederick. Do you remember old Manners in the palmy days of
our youth?”

“What, at Seetapore, when we were kids? Retired in the year one, and
settled down with a native wife?”

“That’s the man, and the dark boy is his son.”

“What’s he doing?”

“Trying to get accepted as his father’s heir. Apparently a few odd
cousins and people dropped off, and old Manners would have come in for a
whole lot of property if he had lived.”

“And the half-caste son succeeds? Well, some people have all the luck.”

“Oh, I don’t know about luck.” Richard Morton’s frown deepened. “He’s a
poor creature, but one can’t help feeling sorry for the boy. There’s a
screw loose somewhere, and apparently he won’t get anything.”

“Stupid business marrying a native,” was Freddy’s comment. “Always leads
to trouble. Oh, Lord, Dick, who in the world is this?”

A very magnificent person had just come into view. His dark skin
contrasted strongly with the shirt of fine white muslin which he wore
buttoned to the throat with emerald studs. His tall figure, not yet too
full for shapeliness, was set off by a long coat of green and gold
brocade, and his waist was confined by folds of crimson kincob, against
which there glittered the jewelled hilt of a dagger. A long necklace of
many rows of pearls hung down upon the crimson and gold of the sash, and
a pearl and emerald aigrette showed up bravely against his muslin
turban. Three ladies hung on his every word, and his dark eyes roved
from one to the other. Critics might have detected a certain insolence
in his glance, but London vowed that his manners were charming.

Captain Morton looked for a moment, and shrugged his shoulders.

“Blatant beast,” he observed.

“But who—what is it?”

“Used to be a _khitmutghar_, I believe. Picked up English and got taken
on to teach in a school at Cawnpore. You know old Bajee Rao—last of the
Peishwas—disreputable old blackguard—well, his adopted son Dhundoo
Punth—the man they call the Nana Sahib—took a fancy to this Azimullah
creature, and made him his _vakil_. Now he has unlimited influence, and
apparently unlimited cash.”

“What is he doing here?” inquired Freddy, wrinkling up his upper lip.

Dick Morton laughed a little grimly. “Was it David, or Shakespeare, who
said that all men were fools?”

“Original I think, dear boy,” murmured Freddy.

“True, anyhow. Azimullah Khan is the idol of the season. Look at old
Lady Mountjoy smiling away at him, and that pretty creature in blue. No
party is a success without the ‘Indian Prince,’ and he dresses the part
all right, doesn’t he?”

“Beast—oily beast,” said Freddy Carlton with conviction. “What is he
doing in England at all, though?”

“Trying to get a hard-hearted Company to continue Bajee Rao’s pension to
his beloved adopted son. It’s been a grievance for a long time, and now
Azimullah is trying to get things settled. Also, I believe, he is
financing and generally looking after young Manners, whose mother was
the Nana’s sister, or cousin, or something of that sort.”

“I met the Nana Sahib once—rather a sportsman. Well, I hope he’ll get
his money, I like to hear of some one getting money out of the Company.
By Jingo, Dick, I wish they’d give me some! By the way, I saw George
Blake on my way down country, and he said you were going into the
Civil—cutting the regiment. It’s not true?”

“Yes, it is.”

“Why on earth?”

“A regimental officer has no chances.”

Freddy burst out laughing.

“Why, you’ve seen more service than any of us. I wish I’d had your
luck.”

“Well, I wasn’t at Multan with the regiment, and it wasn’t regimental
work that took me to Burmah, and the chances get less every day.”

He paused. Freddy Carlton and he had been boys together. He had not many
near relatives, and this coming home had been rather a lonely business.
Looked forward to for ten years, it had resolved itself into a counting
of empty places, a wandering to and fro amongst haunting memories, and a
realisation of how dead, how absolutely dead, were the friendships and
the interests which in anticipation had seemed warm and still alive.

He had an impulse towards confidence.

“There have been times when I could have thrown up the whole thing,” he
said. “Then Edwardes showed me a way out. I’m not supposed to be going
for good. I learned Pushtoo when I was up at Multan, you know, and I’m
to be lent for a year or two for special work, under Edwardes at
Peshawur. Things are pleasantly fluid in the Punjab at present. I’m
pretty sick of a régime of red-tape and doddering inefficiency.”

Freddy’s little greenish eyes twinkled.

“Oh, insubordinate young man!” he exclaimed. He pulled at his sandy
moustache. “You’ve still got old Crowther for a colonel, I see.”

“Oh, Lord, yes. Crowther will die—or at least we’ll hope so—but he’ll
never surrender. Heavens, Freddy, what sort of a system is it that never
gives a man his chance till he’s past taking it? I dare say Crowther was
all right once.”

“I’ll swear he wasn’t,” grinned Freddy.

“No, I don’t suppose he could have been; but this hanged system of
purchase does wear a lot of good fellows out. They haven’t got the
money, and their chances pass them by, and when they’ve wasted the best
years of their lives, and fretted their hearts out, and the chance does
come,—why the rust has gone too deep, and they just crumble.”

“That how you feel? Man to man now, Dick, how deep has it got with you?
As for my humble self—well, I don’t know that I feel so very rusty.”

“Oh, you’ve used it up on your hair,” said Dick Morton, laughing, “and
I——”

“Rolling stones gather no rust—eh? What’ll George Blake do without his
_fidus Achates_, Dick?”

“I hope he’ll get the Adjutancy.”

“So you are getting out of his way?”

Captain Dick could still blush in spite of the sunburn. The colour ran
up to the roots of his black hair, and he looked cross.

“What rubbish!” he said, and Freddy permitted himself the merest ghost
of a whistle.

“Oh, I won’t let on,” he said wickedly.

“How are you fellows?” asked Captain Morton in an abrupt voice.

“Oh, fairly gay, thanks. Willoughby’s married, and Smith’s going to be,
and Renton’s homesick, and I’m on the verge of bankruptcy, and the only
really bright spot is, that we don’t think the Colonel’s liver will
stand another hot weather. If it weren’t for that, I declare we’d offer
him to you, lock, stock, and barrel, and take old Crowther in exchange,
hanged if we wouldn’t.”

“No, thanks, Freddy, we wouldn’t deprive you for the world. And if
Crowther went to-morrow they’d give the regiment to Marsh,—Marsh whose
idea of Heaven is a place where we can all stand in rows for ever and
ever, and never soil our pipe-clay with a profane touch. I tell you,
Ginger, before I came away, I was hourly expecting to be told to keep
the men in cotton-wool, once they were dressed.”

“Well, I like ’em smart,” protested Freddy with a grimace.

“Smart—oh, Lord, they’re smart enough. They’re a deuced sight too
smart, Ginger, and they’re getting to know it. They want taking down a
peg or two, these stall-fed, caste-proud Brahmins. They’ll be able to do
without us soon; and they’re beginning to know that too. I’d like to see
’em in sensible clothes, and I’d like to see ’em think less of their
pipe-clay and more of their discipline.”

“Clothes, what sort of clothes? What’s wrong with their clothes?”

“Everything. Too tight. Too hot. Too much pipe-clay. Damn pipe-clay!”

“All right—I don’t mind. ‘Damn it’ all you like. But what’s wrong with
the discipline? I’d bet my boots your men were disciplined within an
inch of their lives, whilst you were Adjutant.”

“Rotten—that’s what the discipline is,” said Richard Morton, with his
black eyebrows in a straight frowning line.

“Insubordinate, are they?”

“I’d like to see ’em.” Captain Morton’s eyes went very bright and hard.
“No, but they’d like to be. Ginger, if I’d a free hand for six
months—but with Marsh and Crowther over one’s head, it’s a sickening,
heart-breaking job,—and besides, I don’t want to be chucked out of the
service for telling ’em what I think of ’em, and it’s bound to come if I
stay on.”

“Then you’d better go, my son.”

“That’s what Edwardes says, so he’s asked for me. I made friends with
his horde of ruffians at Multan. Not much pipe-clay there. I tell you
some of them would wake our Bengal regiments up a bit, only they
wouldn’t wear tight red jackets, and tight white pantaloons.”

“No, no, I draw the line at the wild Pathan, Dick. He’s all very well
for Irregulars.”

Richard Morton’s eyes brightened.

“I tell you, Freddy, we are wasting our best material, absolutely
wasting it. Look at the Sikhs. Every regiment is ordered to enlist two
hundred of them. How many have you got?”

“Oh, I don’t know. About fifty.”

“And we’ve got sixty-two. Have you got a Sikh native officer? No. Nor
have we, nor has any one else. Can’t get recruits is the cry, but, Lord,
we didn’t kill the whole Sikh army at Moodkee and Ferozeshah.”

Freddy shrugged his shoulders.

“Well, I’m not over partial to Sikhs myself,” he said lazily. “Dirty
beggars, and the other men don’t like ’em.”

“Have you seen them fight?”

“Oh, we don’t all have your luck, Richard, my son.”

The band struck up an air that was very popular that season,

                         “Oh, shall I miss
                          That earliest kiss——”

and Captain Morton pulled himself up and made a feint of looking at his
programme.

“I’ve got a partner to look for,” he said, and his eyes went towards the
door by which Adela Lauriston had gone out.

“Going to dance with the poor girl?” inquired Freddy Carlton with
malice, “because, if so, I’d better be hunting round for a doctor. Once
those beetle-crushers of yours take the floor——”

“All right, Ginger. Wait till I pick you up by the collar, and carry you
round the room. I’d do it now for twopence.”

“Haven’t got twopence,” complained Mr. Carlton ruefully. “But do it just
to oblige an old friend, won’t you, Dick?”

“I would if I’d time. See you again, Ginger”; and Richard Morton went
off, with his head in the air, and his big shoulders well above the
crowd.




                              CHAPTER III
                     HOW TWO MEN PROPOSED TO ADELA


Oh! All the gold that the Fairies have is the gold of the Summer sheaf,
And all the gold that the Fairies give it fades with the fading leaf;
And he who would borrow a day of sorrow, and pledge the morrow to grief,
He shall sell his soul for the Fairy gold that turns to a withered leaf.

Miss Lauriston and her partner passed out of the brightly lighted
ballroom into the great conservatory that was Sir Henry Lavington’s
pride. His income was fortunately a very ample one, for he spent an
extravagant amount upon his glass-houses, and kept this one filled with
strange exotics, whose scent hung heavily on the moist warm air.

“How hot it is!” said Adela. She looked up at her companion with a
teasing glance. “I expect you like it, Mr. Manners. It must remind you
of your home.”

“My home?” said Francis Manners. The words stung him, but it never
crossed his mind that Adela had uttered them with intention.

“Yes, India. India is your home, is it not?”

The young man’s dark eyes dwelt on her.

“I do not think I have any home,” he said, and the queer sing-song
accent gave an added melancholy to the words. “Oh, no, I have not any
home now; but when I was a boy in India, and my father was alive, we
used to talk about home, and we meant England.”

Adela was a little annoyed. Sentiment which was not directed towards
herself always annoyed her. She exclaimed in admiration of a scarlet
cactus, and moved deeper into the conservatory.

Beyond the cactus a bank of orchids threw out strange white and violet
blooms, which were reflected in a brimming marble bowl. Adela moved
slowly towards the flowers, and stood looking down into the clear water.

A tiny stream trickled into it and slid drop by drop into a second pool
beyond. Thus the water moved continually, showing a ceaseless interplay
of faint grey shadow and crystal light, broken here and there by gleams
of reflected purple. As Adela bent above the basin she could see her own
red lips, her own bright eyes, and the vivid jewel flash of the scarlet
flowers in her hair.

With a little laugh she broke the head from one of the geraniums at her
breast, and set it sailing. The current drew it slowly across the pool,
and then, just as it touched the rim, young Manners put out his hand and
snatched the flower—fiercely—as if he were afraid that some one would
be before him.

“Oh, Mr. Manners!” said Adela, and turned a look of smiling reproof upon
his agitated face.

Francis Manners was very young, and very much in love. The first hot
passion of youth beat miserably at his sore heart, and mounted like fire
into a brain that was none too strong. His father had died when he was
fifteen, and from that time the half native life had merged into one
from which English habits and English training had vanished. For a time
there had been friends of his father’s who had kept an eye upon the
handsome, undisciplined lad; once there was even a summer spent in the
hills with a Manners cousin and his wife. That was after he had been so
ill, and the English doctor said he would die if he remained at
Seetapore.

Then when he was seventeen had come his mother’s sudden reconciliation
with her own people, their removal to Cawnpore, and his uncle’s
influence. Sereek Dhundoo Punth, thirty years of age, and steeped in
Oriental vice, but withal pleasant and affable, was willing enough to
cement his alliance with the conquering English by exploiting a relative
who had English blood in his veins. If his sister liked to spend the old
Colonel’s savings in propitiating the Brahmins, what was it to him? He
himself took his advantage where he found it.

They called him the Nana Sahib now, grandson of the Peishwas by an
adoption as sacred as any tie of blood. Some day, perhaps, some day
there would be a Peishwa again, and he would be father of a royal line,
as well as son of kings. Meanwhile he entertained royally at Bithoor,
and English officers came and went, called him friend, dubbed him
sportsman, and partook of his lavish hospitality. Francis Manners shared
this life for four years, and then, learning of his father’s
inheritance, he accompanied his uncle’s agent to England, and put
forward his claim to the Manners estates. A claim—there was the sting.
It was only a claim. No evidence of marriage—nothing to found a case
on—nothing at all. That was what the lawyers had said. He had gone from
one to another, and at each repetition of the verdict he saw receding
into the distance, not wealth and independence, not Manners Park,
but—Adela Lauriston.

He looked at her now. There was a veil between them, a hazy veil that
was like distance made manifest. Then as her face laughed at him from
the water, and he snatched her flower, his misery broke from him in a
cry of “Adela!”

“Mr. Manners, don’t—how wet you’ll make yourself.”

“Adela!”

“Well, I supposed there would be a scene,” said Miss Lauriston to
herself with resignation. What she said aloud was entirely the proper
thing.

“Mr. Manners, please don’t.”

“I cannot help it. Oh, no, I cannot. I love you so much, so very much.”

“Oh, please.”

“But you do know that. Oh, yes, you must know it. Have I hidden it? Has
it not been for all the world to see? Your mother saw, and she was not
angry. Only last week she called me Francis, and said that we were
cousins. And you saw—oh, yes, you saw——”

“Indeed——”

“When we were in the boat together, two days ago only—in the moonlight,
and you let me hold your hand, did you not see? And you were kind, you
were not angry at all.”

Adela felt a passing sensation of anger. The boat incident was one of
those which had made so much talk. She would never have risked it had
she dreamed of the turn that things were going to take.

At the same time her heart beat not unpleasantly. She was perfectly
mistress of herself. She must be kind, but firm. It really was foolish
of him to harp so on a week ago, three days ago—as if most important
changes could not take place in a far shorter time. After all, if it
were not for the talk she was not sure that she would have cared to
marry him, even if his claim had proved as good as they had expected.

“Adela, speak to me—you are not angry now!” And now she was quite ready
for him.

“Oh, no, Mr. Manners, not angry, why should I be angry? I am only sorry
that you should have misunderstood.”

“But I have not. You were kind.”

“My mother and I were friendly, because your father was a connexion, but
I never thought, never dreamed——”

“Never? Not when I held your hand? Not when I kissed it? Not when I
looked at you? Oh, yes, you must have seen. My heart was full of my
love, and my eyes were full of it, and you smiled, you smiled at
me—only this evening you smiled.”

Adela felt a little cross. Really this young man was very unreasonable.
She withdrew herself a pace or two, and in a flash, there was the poor
boy on his knees, catching at her dress, and stammering out some
confused appeal to her, not to be angry, not to go, not to leave him.

“But, Mr. Manners——”

“You called me Frank. Only yesterday you called me Frank.”

Adela was provoked.

“A week ago—what has a week ago to do with to-day?” she cried.

He turned a quivering face up to hers.

“What is it that you say? What is it that you mean?”

Adela’s eyes flashed. Could the man not take his answer? Had he no
perceptions?

“Oh, Mr. Manners, do be sensible,” she exclaimed.

“What is it that you mean? Why do you say ‘a week ago,’ like that.”

She set her lips firmly together, and he answered his own question with
a sob.

“It is because of what the lawyers say. It is because you think that I
have nothing to offer you now. But you said it yourself—India is my
home. In India I am a prince. In India I can give you a home. If my
father’s people will not have me, there are my mother’s people still.
There is my uncle, the Nana Sahib. He would be a great king if the
English had not taken the throne from his father. He is a rich man
still—verree rich, and a Rajah. Oh, he has jewels, and elephants, and
everything verree rich. He is the friend of the English. Lots of English
officers are his friends, English ladies come to his parties. You would
be like a princess—Adela, beautiful Adela.”

The sing-song accent gave the sentences a broken, foreign ring; the
words came haltingly because the boy’s lips trembled so much. He was
quite white, and the moisture stood in beads upon his forehead. He held
Adela’s dress in an anguished grasp, and as she shrank back and was
afraid to free herself because it would be such a pity to tear her
flounce, she wondered how she could ever have thought him handsome.

“Adela!” he repeated in a sort of whisper; and she spoke indignantly:

“Mr. Manners, please let me go. It is all quite impossible. You have no
right——”

He cried out sharply, and she repeated her last words.

“You have no right at all to behave like this. Let me go at once.”

“You say that too—you too. No right—I have no right. I have no right
to my name, and so I have no right to love you. I have no right to be
alive. Oh, I did not ask to be alive. I would rather be dead, oh, yes,
much rather I would be dead.”

He let go of Adela’s skirt, and put his hands to his face. There was a
long pause, and then Adela said quickly:

“Some one is coming. The next dance has begun. Mr. Manners, do get up.”

He did not move.

“Some one is coming. For mercy’s sake, get up. Mr. Manners! Francis!”

He got up stumblingly.

“Some one coming?” he said in a dazed fashion.

“Yes. We must go back. Don’t you hear the music. Let me take your arm.
That will be best.”

She put out her hand, and he caught at it and kissed it, and kept on
kissing it, until she snatched it from him. Then, as Richard Morton’s
tall figure came towards them through the palms, he walked away, swaying
on his feet, like a man who has drunk too deeply.

Adela drew a breath of relief, and moved a little farther from the pool,
and the shaded light that burned above it. Under a branching,
dark-leaved tree there were a couple of chairs, and she sank into one of
them, with a soft billowing of her pretty skirts.

Captain Morton came past the shining water, and sat down beside her.

“I ought to be penitent for keeping you from a partner who can dance,”
he said.

“And are you?” asked Miss Lauriston.

“Not a bit.”

His eyes laughed at her, and she blushed a little, very prettily.

“Don’t you ever dance, Captain Morton?”

“I did once.”

“Only once? Why was that?”

“The casualty list was too heavy. You see I tread on people, and my feet
are so large. Six young ladies cut me dead next day.”

“Oh!” said Adela, in a soft vague voice. She never quite knew whether
Captain Morton was in earnest or not.

He was frowning, and he looked grave, but his eyes twinkled.

“One bouquet, two flounces, three fans, one set of—what do you call
’ems—gathers—is that right? and four lost programmes, besides a girl
who was lame for a week, because I stepped right on her foot. I said I
couldn’t help it, and that seemed to make things worse. It really was a
large foot, though. But you see how it was that I didn’t persevere with
my dancing.”

“It is very pleasant sitting here,” said Adela gently.

His remark about flounces had reminded her of her own. She bent her head
and tried to see if there were a tear. How that foolish Francis Manners
had crushed her skirt! And, oh, dear, how tiresome, how too tiresome,
the blonde flounce was certainly torn! That was the worst of blonde; it
tore so easily, and only looked well when it was quite fresh. She
wondered if Helen would darn it—Helen darned so beautifully. Or perhaps
it would be better to put another cluster of geraniums there, quite a
small one. That would hide the place. Her face had a pensive expression
which softened it. Richard Morton’s blood stirred as he looked at her
and thought how sweet she was. How sweet and dear, how young and gentle!

“Yes, it is very—pleasant,” he said, and his eyes dwelt on her.

“Is India like this?” she asked idly.

“India is rather a big place, Miss Lauriston.”

“My cousin, Helen Wilmot, is going to India this autumn. You know her
father, my uncle Edward, don’t you?”

“Yes, I know him.”

There was no particular enthusiasm in Captain Morton’s voice.

“It is five years—no, more—seven years since he was in England. I
should think Helen would find it very strange, going out to a father she
has not seen for so long. She would have gone out before, only her
grandmother was ill for a long time. She died at Christmas. That is why
Helen is not going about. We wanted her to come here to-night, but she
would not. She was very fond of her grandmother—Mrs. Wilmot’s mother
you know, no relation of ours.”

Captain Morton felt no special interest in Miss Wilmot’s affairs, but he
liked listening to Adela. He thought her solicitude for her cousin very
pretty and womanly.

“Would you like to go out to India?” he asked abruptly, and Adela
coloured.

“I? Oh, I am never likely to go there.”

“Never is a very long day. Should you like to go?”

“I don’t know. Do you like it?”

“Well enough, but I’m a poor homeless creature, you know.”

“Do you mean that you live in a tent?”

“No, I didn’t mean quite that.” He paused a moment, and then went on
lightly, “My friend George Blake and I share a great tomb of a house—a
regular whited sepulchre—rooms about thirty feet high. Furniture
chiefly matting.”

“It sounds—cold,” said Adela, feeling she was expected to say
something.

“I wish it felt cold,” said Captain Morton heartily, “I only wish it
did. Most of the time it feels a great deal too hot to be pleasant. But
I go out to Peshawur, in the North, and there it really is cold, for a
couple of months or so, and when the spring comes the whole place is
smothered in roses and peach blossom.”

“How beautiful!”

“Wouldn’t you like to see it?”

“Oh, yes, indeed.”

“Come, and see it—with me,” said Richard Morton.

His voice dropped on the last words, and something in it made Adela
catch her breath.

She had thought it all over—planned it—told herself it was inevitable.
She must accept him, oh, yes, she must certainly accept him. She knew
very well that unless her engagement were given out promptly, her little
world would turn the cold shoulder upon pretty Miss Lauriston. Aunt
Harriet had made that very clear. Well, if she went to India, she need
never see Aunt Harriet again. That would be one comfort. Nor Hetty—that
odious Hetty, in the diamonds that would have been so very, very
becoming to Hetty’s cousin. It was balm to reflect that they accentuated
every bad point which Hetty possessed. What a mess she had made of
things—Sir Henry Lavington, and Francis Manners, and others.

Adela Lauriston had never lacked admirers, and yet Hetty, plain Hetty,
stood there to-night in diamonds, and Adela must marry a soldier, and go
to India.

Indian jewelry was beautiful. Visions of all the gems of Golconda
floated before her, all in a glittering mist. She bent her head and as
the delicate colour came and went in her cheeks, Richard Morton could
have kissed the damp pavement under her feet.

“Oh, you dearest, will you—will you come?” he said; and Adela looked
up, and looked down, and breathed a faint assent.

“Oh, how he is crushing my flowers,” was her next coherent thought.
“They’ll be sure to stain the silk, and it will be ruined. Oh, I _do_
wish he would let me go. I do _wish_ he would.”

“Oh, please, please,” she whispered, and he slackened his embrace, and
laughed down at her blushes.

“Did I frighten you? What a great clumsy bear I am! You’ll have to tame
me. Only don’t make me love you less. Could you, I wonder? Did you hate
the bear’s hug very much—did you, love?”

His eyes were radiant with a smiling tenderness. Under it there were
depths. Any woman’s eyes must have fallen. Some would have been full of
tears.

Adela looked down at the bosom of her gown, at the crushed, scarlet
blooms. The red from the bruised petals had stained her breast, and
stained the silk and lace below. “Such a stain! It will never come out,”
ran her thought, and as the words went through her mind, Richard Morton
kissed her soft flushed cheek, and she felt his hand tremble upon her
arm.

“Adela,” he said, and his voice shook too, “Adela, I’ve not much to
offer you now, but I swear I’ll make a name for you. I’m an ambitious
man, but now it is all for you. Every bit of it is for you,—like my
life—like my love. My God, Adela, how I love you!”

And he raised her head with a strong shaking hand, and kissed her on the
lips.




                               CHAPTER IV
              HOW ADELA DID NOT FORGET TO SAY HER PRAYERS


                    If you go shod with dreams,
                      Your feet shall be
                    On paths as soft as sleep
                      Where dreams are free.
                    These are the ways of the World;
                      Dear Heart, take heed,
                    If you go shod with dreams
                      Your feet shall bleed.

The bedroom which Helen Wilmot shared with her cousin had two large
windows which looked away over the houses to the east. It was at the top
of the high, narrow London house, so the windows caught the first of the
moonlight, and the first of the sunrise. The moon was gone now. An hour
ago she had slid into a bank of clouds that folded the west in gloom,
but light was coming back with the sun, and little silvery streaks of it
began to outline the heavy green Venetian blinds in the bedroom.

Helen Wilmot, propped up in bed, with Adela’s two pillows as well as her
own, glanced at the window, drew her dwindling candle a little nearer,
and turned a page of the book which she was reading, wearily, but with
determination.

As she did so, there was a step on the stair, and in a moment the door
opened, and Adela came in, with a candle in her hand. She went straight
to the dressing-table, and as she went the white crêpe shawl slid from
her shoulders, and left them bare.

Adela let it lie, tilted the glass, and for a long moment she stood and
looked at her own reflection. Then she stretched out her hand, and
pulling one of the green blinds sharply aside, let in the first grey
light, that was scarcely daylight yet. It struck full upon her face, but
glow and colour, warmth of hair and skin, were proof against its
disillusioning touch, and Adela, smiling, let the blind swing back, and
turned to pick up her shawl. She met Helen’s half-sarcastic look.

“I wanted to see if I looked as dreadful as all the other women did,
when they came out into this odious light,” she said, and gave a little
yawn. “You should have seen Bella Wilson. She looked forty!”

“Perhaps she is forty,” said Helen lazily.

“If she could hear you! But I don’t look bad, do I?”

“My _dear_ Adela, do you imagine I am going to pay you compliments at
four in the morning. That, my child, is not what I kept awake for.”

“Well, I’m sure no one asked you to keep awake,” retorted Adela.

She unclasped the string of pearls which was her only ornament, and said
coaxingly, “You might say I look nice. Really you might, Nellie.”

“Don’t call me ‘Nellie’ then,” said Helen, laughing. Her heart was full
of something like worship for her beautiful cousin; some of it came into
her eyes, but her voice was cool and teasing as she added,

“You look quite—nice—Adie.”

Adela turned away pettishly, and laid her necklet down on the
dressing-table.

“These wretched pearls seem to get smaller and smaller,” she said, and
Helen laughed again.

“That is because you have been looking at Hetty’s jewels. You weren’t
here when Aunt Harriet gave us the whole list of them. Aunt Lucy and I
took turns to say ‘How lovely,’ till I felt as if I were repeating the
responses in church. Some day, if I am very good, Hetty will ask me to
tea, and show me some of them. Do you think I can live up to it? What
did she wear to-night? And how did she look?”

“How does Hetty always look?” said Adela scornfully.

She came across to the bedside, and knelt down.

“Undo me, will you? And it’s all pins, so be careful, or the blonde will
tear. Oh, Helen!” she pursued with energy, “do you remember a dress I
had last year? No, I don’t believe you ever saw it, for that idiot Emma
hung it too close to the fire, and it caught, and was ruined. I had only
worn it twice, and I was so angry. Emma had no thought for any one but
herself. She said her mother was ill, or something. She was a stupid
creature. Well, it was a very pretty dress, white illusion and
forget-me-nots, you know the sort of thing. Would you believe it—Hetty
must have copied it! Hetty!”

“Adela, do keep still.”

“She had it on to-night. Imagine my fury. I must say Aunt Harriet or
some one might tell Hetty how perfectly hideous she looks in white. And
she had got forget-me-nots all the wrong colour—like cornflowers, and
nearly as big. Oh, Helen, you are pricking me! There’s another pin on
the shoulder.”

“All right, I’ve got it. Yes, Hetty is lumpy.”

“And her nose,” said Adela in an animated tone. “It always _was_ flat,
but I never knew how flat a snub nose could look, till I saw Hetty with
a tiara.”

Helen burst out laughing.

“Did Hetty wear her tiara on her nose? Is that the latest fashion? And
how did she keep it on? Now, Adela, if anything tore then, it was your
fault, and not mine. There, that’s done, and don’t let us talk about
Hetty any more. It is really too dull. Whom did you see?”

Adela got up, and hung her bodice over the back of a chair. Then she
slipped out of the full skirt, and stood up small and slim in a much
be-flounced white petticoat.

“I saw Frank Manners,” she said, and turned to lay her skirt full length
upon the ottoman at the foot of her bed.

“Oh,” said Helen. Her voice was cold. “I thought Aunt Harriet gave him a
hint to stay away; and Aunt Harriet’s hints!” she broke off with an
exclamation—“Oh, Adela, how did you tear that flounce? I never noticed
it before, but the light is right on it now.”

Adela turned her head away, to hide a curious little smile. In
retrospect there was something rather agreeable and flattering about
that scene with young Manners.

“Frank Manners tore it,” she said, and went on with her undressing,
folding each garment carefully and neatly.

“Did he step on it? No, it’s too high up. How did he tear it?”

“He clutched at it,” said Adela, still with that satisfied little smile.

“My dear Adela!”

“Men are so silly,” said Miss Lauriston, lifting her chin. “He behaved
like a great baby. I declare, Helen, he cried—actually cried!”

Helen shut her book with a snap and pushed it under the pillow. “He
proposed to you then. I rather admire his courage—after seeing Aunt
Harriet.”

“If you call it proposing to ask me to go to India and live with a lot
of heathen natives.”

“Don’t!” said Helen sharply.

Adela stared. She was brushing out her hair now, and the loose curls
were very becoming.

“I haven’t the least intention—” she began, but Helen stopped her.

“Of course not—I didn’t mean that, and quite well you know it.”

“It’s what you said,” observed Miss Lauriston innocently.

Helen’s head went up.

“I think you are dreadful, Adela!” she said. “I think you ought to be
ashamed of yourself!”

“Thank you, my dear. It was he who was dreadful. Such a scene! I can’t
think how men can be so foolish. If they only knew how much more
attractive and agreeable they are when they don’t make scenes—why, he
didn’t even look handsome to-night.”

“Why did you lead the wretched boy on?” she said.

Adela came and sat on the foot of the bed.

“I didn’t lead him on,” she said. “Really, Helen, you _do_ say things. I
wouldn’t stand it from any one else. And you who always hated Frank
Manners! How can I marry him when he hasn’t got anything to marry me on?
It’s not my fault. He is—well, you know—I couldn’t possibly marry any
one who hadn’t even got a right to the name he was called by”; and Adela
blushed deeply.

Helen looked at her.

“I don’t want you to marry Mr. Manners,” she said.

“Well,” said Adela, looking down. “I shouldn’t have minded if things had
turned out differently. But then they haven’t, and what is the use of
fighting against Providence? I think it is very irreligious not to—to
accept things. If I had been _meant_ to marry Francis——”

“Providence would have arranged for his father and mother to have been
properly married,” interrupted Miss Wilmot.

Adela blushed again.

“Helen, you are odd,” she said.

“And you are—no, I sha’n’t tell you what you are. Go on, Adie.”

“Go on—with what?”

“Tell me the rest.”

“Helen, what do you mean? The rest?”

“Yes, my child. Exit Francis Manners, dust to dust, ashes to ashes, and
all the rest of it, and enter—who?”

Adela looked first blank, and then shocked.

“Helen, you shouldn’t. That’s in the Prayer Book,” she exclaimed.

“So is the Marriage Service, Adie. How does it go?—I, Adela Frances,
take thee—Richard, isn’t it?—do you know his second name?”

“Helen, don’t—what an odd way you have of putting things!”

“Have I?” Her voice softened. “Well, Adie, aren’t you going to tell me?”

“Why, Helen, how do you know?”

“Because I am very clever,” said Miss Wilmot. “You don’t imagine that I
burn the midnight candle-end for nothing?”

“You’ll never get married if you are so clever,” said Adela seriously.

“No, but you will. Are you engaged, Adie?”

Adela gave a little conscious laugh.

“Yes, I am.”

“To?”

“To Captain Morton, of course.”

“Adie——”

Helen put out her arms, and the girls kissed. Helen’s lips were soft and
a little tremulous. It was she who kissed, and Adela who turned her
smooth cool cheek to the caress.

“Oh, Adie,” Helen whispered. “What does it feel like? Are you happy?”

And Adela shivered a little, her triumph grown suddenly cold. India was
so far away. From the stretches of land and sea that lay between her and
the country she must go to, there rose as it were a faint, chilly mist.
It made the future look grey—nebulous—uncertain.

Adela caught at herself, and drew away from Helen. She spoke, and the
sound of her own voice reassured her.

“I think it will do very well,” she said, “and really you know, Helen,
he is rather distinguished. Don’t you think so?—though of course he
isn’t handsome. Now Francis Manners is handsome. I do admire a man with
dark eyes, don’t you?”

“No, I don’t,” said Miss Wilmot shortly.

Adela made herself comfortable on the floor. She leaned against the bed,
close to Helen, and went on talking, chin in hand.

“Of course,” she said thoughtfully, “Henry Lavington would really have
suited me best of all. He would have been comfortable to live with. He
wouldn’t have made scenes like Frank Manners, and he wouldn’t have been
jealous. Now Captain Morton is jealous, I am sure. Henry Lavington would
have let me do just as I liked, and I might have married him, you know.”

Helen exclaimed, and Adela nodded.

“Yes, I might. I should have been Lady Lavington now, if I hadn’t been
so foolish as to let him go and stay with Aunt Harriet without me, just
when we had had a quarrel. I made up an excuse and wouldn’t go, and the
next thing I heard, he was engaged to Hetty. It was such a silly quarrel
too—all about nothing—and when I saw Hetty in those diamonds to-night,
I could have pinched her.”

“I see,” said Helen Wilmot. “Henry Lavington first, Francis Manners
second, and Richard Morton—third. Is that it?”

Adela took no notice.

“We sha’n’t be so badly off,” she said. “I really couldn’t marry a poor
man, but mamma was right about the uncle. He left quite a nice little
sum, and I dare say if I didn’t like India, that Richard would sell out
and settle down at home. Yes, I think I shall make him do that.”

“I thought he was ambitious,” said Helen. “They say he has a career
before him.”

“Oh, yes, he told me how ambitious he was. And then he spoke so oddly
about his ambition, and about me—I thought he was quite profane. It was
quite like swearing. I couldn’t repeat it”; and Adela’s colour deepened.

“Swearing that he loved you?” said Helen Wilmot in a curious voice.

“Of course, my dear.” Adela’s tone was a little superior. “I expect we
shall be married pretty soon,” she went on. “He has to go back to India
in September. Why, Helen, you will be able to come out with us; I never
thought of that.”

“So I shall.”

Adela got up, yawning.

“Well, I must get into bed. Give me my pillows. No, that one isn’t mine.
You can put out the candle.”

Helen dropped her book on the floor, blew out the light—and lay down,
with her face to the windows, where a little tinge of gold was warming
the streaks of light, which half an hour ago had been cold and grey
enough. The day would be fine. She closed her eyes and called up a
picture of the sunrise, the air very clear, and the colours in it faint
yellow, ethereal green and grey, with just one little rosy cloud, high
up where the grey was changing into blue. With the unconscious
plagiarism of youth she made serious comparison in her own mind between
this dawn of day, and the dawn of Adela’s new life.

First the frail exquisite colours, then the rhythmic mystery of flowing
light, the glow, the mounting glory, and afterwards full day, blue sky,
the happy work-a-day world and love’s companionship. Helen did not
blush, but a warmth ran through her. She had a passionately romantic
nature, which she shielded under a somewhat sarcastic mode of speech,
and this contrast between what she felt, and what she expressed, often
caused her to give Adela credit for feelings which matched her own. She
saw her cousin’s faults, but above them, transfiguring where it did not
hide, hovered the rainbow breath of Adela’s beauty, and the weakness of
Adela’s character made strong appeal to her own strength. All her
romantic imaginings were for Adela, none for herself. Her own path in
life was clear. Poor papa had his weaknesses,—so much her grandmother
had hinted,—and Helen’s imagination had immediately supplied her with a
picture of herself as the devoted daughter, soothing, helping,
companioning. As long as poor papa lived, Helen would never leave him.
There would be a devoted lover, of course, but she would dismiss him in
a scene of the purest poetry, and pursue a path brightened only by such
light as may be supposed to radiate from ideals of the loftiest, the
most fervent character.

Adela was different. For Adela she desired all the blessings which she
herself renounced. She loved her cousin with the whole-heartedness of an
ardent young woman, who had had no one younger than a grandmother upon
whom to expend her affection. And then again and always, there was
Adela’s beauty, and Helen responded to beauty as a sunflower turns to
the sun. _Il y a toujours l’un qui baise et l’autre qui tend la joue_,
and Adela, nothing loath, submitted with a good grace to being adored.
She herself was perhaps fonder of Helen than of any one else in the
world.

Helen lay looking into the daylight and watching it brighten until she
grew drowsy, and slid into a dream.

Suddenly there was a little rustle in the quiet room, and she raised a
sleepy head; dreamland was pleasant, and she was tired.

“What _are_ you doing, Adela?”

“I forgot to say my prayers,” said Miss Lauriston’s soft voice with a
shocked note in it.

She went down on her knees as she spoke, and Helen blinked at her.

“And shall you say morning or evening ones?” she murmured.

Adela raised her head and looked puzzled.

“I always say my evening prayers when I come to bed,” she said.

“And shall you say just the same as usual?”

“Yes. Do hush, Helen,” and Adela’s head with the loose chestnut curls
was buried in her hands.

Helen snuggled down and drifted comfortably back along the impalpable
ways of sleep, but as Adela rose from her devotions she was again
disturbed.

“Helen, would you have the wedding-dress satin, or a really good thick
silk?”

This time Miss Wilmot was roused to anger.

“I don’t care if you are married in your chemise,” she declared, and
Adela was too much shocked and offended to pursue the conversation.




                               CHAPTER V
                         THE PASSING OF A DREAM


Man is as old as his burden, but when will he understand
That a wayward woman is bridled, when a rope has been made from the sand?

Adela Lauriston was married in the beginning of September. She wore
white satin, and a wreath, and was not in the least agitated.

“I must say I think a bride should be _pale_,” said her Aunt Harriet
with a disapproving eye on Adela’s soft, steady colour. “Either pale, or
blushing. But there, I always did say that Adela had no heart.”

“Helen is pale enough,” said Hetty Lavington.

“Helen is always pale,” returned Mrs. Middleton with severity. “It is
perfectly absurd for a healthy girl to have so little colour. However,
there is one thing, India cannot possibly make her any paler, whereas
Adela will probably lose her complexion entirely within a year. Good
gracious me, Lucy will require a second pocket-handkerchief if she is
going to cry like that all through the service. I hope Helen has seen
that she is provided.”

After a brief honeymoon, Captain and Mrs. Morton sailed for India, and
Helen Wilmot went with them, poor papa having managed at last to send
the money for her passage.

Azimullah Khan and Mr. Francis Manners were also on their way to the
East, at a not very much later date, but they halted for a while in
Constantinople, where they acquired an exhaustive knowledge of the
current rumours as to British reverses and British incompetence in the
Crimea. And if some of the rumours were exaggerated, others, it is to be
feared, were only too true. By the time Azimullah brought his master the
account of an unsuccessful mission, he could bring him also flattering
hopes of such decay of the British power as should one day place the
Peishwa’s representative upon the Peishwa’s throne, and meanwhile there
was pleasure enough.

An Oriental prince may be vicious at his will. There are none to check,
and many to pander to him.

Dhundoo Punth’s vices became a byword amongst his own people. He drank
deeply. Francis Manners drank with him, and when his unstrung nerves
played him false, he drugged them with opium, and followed his uncle
deeper and deeper into the morass of vice.

Captain and Mrs. Morton reached Peshawur at the barest and ugliest time
of the year. It was quite cold too, and Adela wrote pettishly to Helen
Wilmot at Mian Mir:

    “MY DEAR HELEN: This place is frightful. I can’t think how
    Richard could have drawn such glowing pictures of it. I would
    never have come to India if I had known what it was like. And
    the houses! Tumble-down mud heaps, and you never in your life
    saw such frumps and frights as all the women are. I shall make
    Richard sell out.”

Richard laughed consumedly when his wife repeated her remarks to him.

“And how are we to live, my child?”

“Why, you have some money,” said Adela, colouring.

“Yes, goose, and I have some ambition. You know I told you so before you
married me. Come, madam, I didn’t deceive you with false pretences, did
I? I told you I was an ambitious devil, and you took him, and now you
must make the best of him.”

“_Richard_, I do wish you wouldn’t——”

“Wouldn’t what?”

“Use such language. It’s not _nice_.” And Adela held up her head and
looked so pretty that Richard kissed her, and told her she was a dear
little saint, which she quite believed.

Presently, however, she returned to the charge.

“Richard, how can we live in a house like this? The floor is all soft
mud, under that horrid, untidy matting, and the walls are all soft too,
and Ayah says thieves sometimes get in by just scraping a hole in the
wall. Ayah says the people here are dreadful. They are all thieves.”

“Well, my dear, when one pays us a visit, I’ll shoot him for you. Will
that do? He shall make his hole in the wall, and as sure as ever his
head comes through, I shall shoot, and then we will dig another hole in
the nice soft floor, and bury him, and no one will be a penny the
wiser.”

“Richard, how horrid! But really that floor——”

“I’ll give you a Persian carpet for a Christmas present. You shall come
down into the city and choose it, if you like. Does that make things any
better?”

Adela smiled a little, but her soft voice was still complaining.

“I wish Helen were here. She is clever about houses, and curtains, and
things like that. I never was. If she were here she would be such a
help. I’m sure Uncle Edward did without her very well for all those
years, and by all accounts he isn’t a very proper person for Helen to be
with. Now, Richard, you said so yourself. I do wish Helen had come on
with us.”

“I don’t know that I do.”

“Why, I thought you liked Helen. She likes you. She always did.”

“I want my wife to myself,” said Richard Morton, putting his arm about
the said wife’s waist.

“But don’t you like Helen?”

“Of course I do, we are great friends. You may send her my love when you
write—and a kiss, too—for the matter of that.”

“Richard!”

“Shocked again?”

“I don’t call it a very nice way to speak. Well, Richard, I’m sure I’ve
said nothing to laugh at.”

Captain Morton laughed all the same.

“Well, I’ll kiss you instead. I don’t know, on the whole—on the whole,
you know—that I wouldn’t rather. One, two, three—there I give up the
kiss, but I insist on your sending my love.”

Adela pursed her lips.

“Richard, I do think you are foolish, and I wish you would be serious.
No, you are not to kiss me again. Oh, Richard, this dress crushes—I
sha’n’t be writing to Helen for a whole week. I do wish she would come
and stay. She’d be some one to talk to when you are out all day. I am
sure I shall never care for any of the ladies here. They are such
dowds!”

Captain Morton laughed.

“Well, my dear, you are a bride and a beauty, and you wouldn’t like it
if they were better dressed than you, or better looking, would you? But
there are some nice people here, and one great friend of mine—Mrs.
Lister; you haven’t seen Mrs. Lister yet.”

“Yes, I have; she called to-day. Richard, she’s plain—and she must be
quite thirty. You can’t admire her?”

Richard Morton frowned.

“She’s a dear,” he declared.

“That plain woman!”

He looked at Adela in surprise.

“Good Lord, child, one doesn’t choose one’s friends for their looks!”

“I thought men did—when the friends were women,” said Adela, flushing.

She slipped off her husband’s knee, and he let her go, with half a sigh.

“Mrs. Lister is a real trump,” he said. “I wish you would make a friend
of her. They took me in when I had fever once, and she nursed me as if I
were a brother.”

“Oh—a brother!” said Adela. Her tone was peculiar, and Richard Morton
looked at her sharply.

“What do you mean, Adela?” he said in a voice that matched his look.

Adela was frightened into further imprudence. With a little toss of the
head that was half temper and half nervousness, she exclaimed:

“Mean—oh, nothing. Brother, or cousin—it’s all the same, and very
convenient when people want to flirt.”

Richard turned white with anger; his brows made a straight line, and
beneath them his eyes blazed.

Adela burst into tears.

“Richard! Don’t look at me like that! What did I say? I am sure I don’t
know why it should make you so angry. Did you never flirt with any one?
I thought all men did—especially in India. And as to her—I am sure any
one might want you to—to admire them—you can’t expect _me_ to think
that strange, or an impossible sort of thing to happen. No, you really
can’t.” And Richard called himself a brute, and petted her, and tried to
forget what she had said, and the sharp revulsion of feeling which had
seized him when she said it. All the same, the scene, and others like
it, left a little sting, a little soreness, and on the whole, it was
just as well that Captain Morton was kept very busy over the
much-discussed Afghan Treaty and the impending visit of Hyder Khan, son
and heir-apparent of the Amir.

In March Adela’s letters became more cheerful.

“This place is getting rather pretty now,” she wrote to Miss Wilmot,
“and it’s warm, and we have been quite gay. The peach blossom was out a
little while ago. We gave a dinner-party, and I wore my peach-coloured
silk, and a wreath of real peach blossoms in my hair. Captain Bannister
of the 150th said some rather pretty things. And I haven’t lost my
complexion and if you write to Aunt Harriet, or to Hetty, you might say
so. You could say I was ‘much admired.’ It would really be quite true,
and I don’t see why some one shouldn’t tell them. Mamma seems very
poorly. I expect it is a great deal fancy, but she writes such depressed
letters. It is rather selfish of her. I get quite moped after reading
one.”

A week later it was:

“I saw Hyder Khan, the Amir’s son, yesterday. He is a big fat man, with
a black beard, and black eyes, but his skin is quite fair. He wore a
sort of dressing-gown, and bundles and bundles of clothes underneath it.
I am sure he asked who I was. He did stare, and then he turned and spoke
to Major Edwardes, and Captain Bannister who was with me got quite red,
and said something I couldn’t catch, and when I told Richard about it in
the evening, he was just as ridiculous. I believe they were both
_jealous_!”

Helen Wilmot laid down the rustling sheets, and frowned at them.

She was trying very hard to live amongst her dreams. She was trying very
hard to keep them intact and beautiful.

Papa’s little weakness had proved to be an inability ever to say “No” to
a brandy peg. On the infrequent occasions upon which he was quite sober
he was a mournful person, with a manner of impenetrable gloom. When he
was drunk, he was either jovial or violent. When jovial, Helen was
called upon to listen to songs and anecdotes of a broadly convivial
nature. When violent, she went in terror, for once already he had struck
her. The bruise ached for a long time under the thin muslin of her
bodice. Her bruised ideals ached longer still. Under such stress as
this, the stuff of which dreams are made wears very thin indeed. The
grey star-bordered robe of self-sacrifice, the golden garment of
romance, she drew them tightly about her, denying the rents and the worn
places in them—dreading to find them fall away and leave her naked and
ashamed—oh, how ashamed.

Adela, and Adela’s happiness, belonged to the dream life. Surely with
Richard Morton, Adela would be happy and safe. Helen and he had made
great friends during the long sea-voyage. They had enjoyed many a battle
of wits, and had come to a pleasant sense of comradeship, and
understanding. And how he loved Adela! His very voice changed when he
spoke of her. His every look proclaimed the tender pride with which he
regarded her. Helen had felt so happy for them both, but now—She
frowned again as she took up another letter and looked through it.

“Captain Bannister thinks my new muslin dress a great success. It is
made with five flounces.”

“Captain Bannister is teaching me to ride.”

“Captain Bannister valses divinely. His step suits mine in the most
delightful manner.”

“Now I wonder what Richard thinks of so much Captain Bannister,”
reflected Miss Wilmot, frowning so deeply that poor papa, who came in
very irritable, remarked, with much vehemence and profanity, that it was
enough to make any man cut his throat, when he came home to find his
daughter looking like a mute at a funeral.

“I like a lively woman,” he observed, and Helen took her thoughts to her
own room.

Richard had thought, too. One day he spoke them out very plainly. He had
been up to his eyes in work, but at last there came a breathing space.

On the 30th of March, Hyder Khan and Mr. John Lawrence, representing
those high contracting parties, the Amir of Afghanistan, on the one
side, and on the other the British Government, signed the Treaty which
bound Dost Mohammed Khan, his heirs, and his successors to perpetual
peace and friendship with the Honourable East India Company. Three years
later the Treaty was to save India for us, when mutiny, fanned by a
tempest, ran through all the length and breadth of the land.

On the frontier, all the wild tribes stirred. The whisper went round
that a Mohammedan Emperor sat on the Peacock Throne at Delhi, and that
there was much loot to be had. But Delhi was far—Cabul nearer—and on
the throne of Cabul the Amir, whose word was as the word of the Prophet.
And the word that came from Dost Mohammed was a word of peace. All along
the frontier it passed. The Amir says, “sit still”—and Eusufzai, and
Utmankhel, Orakzai, and Malikdin Khel Afridi, stayed in their villages
in peace, whilst their sons went down to Peshawur and took service with
the hard-pressed British Raj.

Herbert Edwardes reaped his reward then, but now he stood aside and let
another take the praise for what was his own achievement.

He had worked for it against heavy odds, fought for it against official
coldness and discouragement in his quarters. Now it was accomplished and
he was content.

John Lawrence signed the Treaty, and then tents were struck, presents
exchanged, elaborate farewells taken, and Hyder Khan and his retinue
moved off through the Khyber Pass.

Peshawur settled into quiet, and Captain Morton had leisure to
contemplate his own private affairs. What he saw was very far from
pleasing him.

“Bannister comes to the house too often,” he said with the abrupt
directness which Adela had learned to dread. She fluttered a little.

“Mayn’t I have _any_ friends? It is _rather_ hard, I think, and when I
have scarcely _seen_ you for six weeks. What did you wish me to do? Sit
indoors and do plain sewing, like your Mrs. Lister?”

She looked so pretty—her spurt of temper was so like a child’s that
Richard softened.

“Now, Adela,” he said, and she repeated:

“Mayn’t I have even one friend?”

“You are a silly baby,” he said, putting his arm round her. “Yes, you
are. Why don’t you make friends with some of the other ladies?”

“Oh, Richard, I told you I never could, you must remember that I told
you so. You might be fair, even if you are cross. Now Captain
Bannister——”

Richard’s arm dropped.

“My dear child, not to put too fine a point upon it, Captain Bannister
has completely lost what little head he ever had. He always was an ass.”

“Richard!”

“The man’s in love with you, Adela,” said Richard in his most annoyed
tones. “That is why I won’t have him here.”

Adela looked down, modest but complacent.

“I don’t see why,” she said.

Richard Morton’s face hardened. Adela said afterwards that he glared at
her.

“I do,” he observed, and there was a disagreeable silence.

After a moment Adela stole a glance at him.

“Really, of all the fusses—” she thought, and aloud she murmured:

“How jealous you are, Dick!”

“It’s not a question of jealousy, it’s a question of common decency. I
won’t have a man in my house, when he makes no secret of being in love
with my wife.”

He looked hard at Adela as he spoke, and then began to walk up and down
the room, a proceeding which always got upon her nerves.

“Oh, Richard, don’t!” she said sharply. “It’s exactly like having a wild
beast in the room. And you are too ridiculous about poor Captain
Bannister, who is _most_ nice and respectful—a great deal more
respectful than you are, sir”; and she ventured a little coquettish
glance which sent the blood to Richard Morton’s head.

He came across to her with a couple of great strides, and took her by
the shoulders.

“Adela, do you put us on the same footing?”

“Oh, you are hurting me!”

“Answer me. Do you?”

“Dick, how ridiculous! As if one could have two husbands, or wanted to!
I am sure one is enough. _More_ than enough.”

“Are you sorry that you married me?” asked Richard Morton.

There was something in his tone that would have gone to the heart of a
woman who loved him. Adela welcomed it.

“Not when you are nice. When you are jealous, and unreasonable, and
horrid—well, I don’t know,” and she threw him a teasing glance.

A few months ago it would have brought him to her feet. Now he let go of
her, and said with rather a heavy sigh:

“My dear, you took me with your eyes open. I suppose some one else might
have made you happier, but I am your husband, and you mustn’t forget it.
You mustn’t forget it, Adela.”

He went out of the room without kissing her, and Adela sat down pouting,
to tell Captain Bannister that she was afraid she could not ride with
him as she had promised.

This was the first of many like scenes. Captain Bannister went his way,
and next it was Mr. Burnet, the young civilian, whose name occurred in
every letter. Dick was very unreasonable about him too, “and really, my
dear Helen,” wrote Adela, “it is too hot to have fusses.”

In May Mrs. Morton went up to Murree, and held quite a little court
there.

“There is a Mr. Duncan who is quite _devoted_ to me,” she wrote to Helen
Wilmot, who was still at Mian Mir. “He is so handsome, and a charming
partner.”

But a little later on it was—“Mr. Duncan is getting rather tiresome. He
has begun to make scenes,” and so it went on, until Captain Morton came
up on leave, and at the end of it carried his wife back to Peshawur,
where she had perforce to spend a very quiet winter, for her mother died
suddenly after so many ailing years, and she herself was nervous, and
out of sorts.

In the spring a baby boy was born to Richard and Adela Morton—born only
to die.

Adela recovered very quickly. Helen looked out anxiously for letters,
and when they came they were full of Adela’s delight at being, as she
phrased it, “presentable” again; and of Adela’s apprehensions lest her
looks should have suffered from her illness.

“I really believe,” she wrote to Helen in April, “I really do believe I
look all the better for the _rest_, though I did hate it at the time.
What with being in mourning, and not being fit to be seen, it was a
_dreadful_ winter. It is so nice to have a waist again. I can wear my
last year’s muslin dresses already, and I haven’t had to let them out,
as Mrs. Carruthers said I should. I have made great friends with her.
She is the only woman here with an idea of how to dress. I am going to
share a house with her in Murree this year. I wish you could come up. I
think Uncle Edward very _selfish_ to keep you down. Men _are_ selfish.
Imagine Richard expecting me to stay here with him, and after all I have
been through, too—I said no, not unless he wanted to kill me, and I
told him what I thought about his selfishness. Only I believe it is more
_jealousy_ with him. As if I could help people admiring me! Richard is
very dull and mopy just now. He is really absurd about the poor baby’s
death. As if a father’s feelings could possibly be as deep as a
mother’s. Every one knows that men don’t really care for children when
they are so small, and as I tell him, if I can think about other things,
and be resigned, he ought to be able to. If the poor little thing had
been _meant_ to live, it would have lived. I am afraid Richard is not at
all religious. He has quite given up going to church, and goes out
shooting instead. So Major Morrison calls for me, and we go for a drive
afterwards. That _odious_ Mrs. Lister told Richard, and made out that
people were talking, and he made a scene, and last Sunday he _did_ come
to church, and sat there looking—well, stiff wasn’t the word, and a
most shocking sort of sarcastic look on his face. He really is too
unreasonable. I shall be _delighted_ to get away from here.”

In the early autumn of 1856, Colonel Wilmot died, and Richard Morton
wrote to Helen and asked her to make her home with Adela. Between the
short sentences, Helen divined an appeal.

That summer in the hills with Mrs. Carruthers had proved a most
disastrous one; Mr. Duncan—who made scenes—had put in an appearance
once more, and Adela had allowed him to make her the talk of the place.
Finally, when Captain Morton came up to Murree in August, there was a
scene beyond all other scenes. Mr. Duncan, repulsed by the now terrified
Adela, went away and made an unsuccessful attempt to cut his throat. The
scandal may be imagined, and its effect on Richard Morton. Adela thought
it all very hard.

“Richard talked as if I were a _murderess_,” she wrote to Helen. “I
believe he would like to see me _hung_! As if it were my fault that
Charlie Duncan tried to do such a wicked thing. I have _always_ said I
thought it _very_ wicked of people to commit suicide. It shows that they
haven’t been well brought up, and that they haven’t proper religious
principles. I said this to Richard, and I said it only showed how
necessary it was to have religious principles, and you’ve no idea,
Helen, how _unkind_ he was, or what things he said. And after all it is
all a great fuss about nothing, for Mr. Duncan is all right again, and
he has taken furlough and is going home immediately. When he is gone,
people will stop talking.”

But when Helen Wilmot came up to Peshawur in October, she found that
people had by no means stopped talking. Adela was desperately aggrieved.

“Richard has gone and got himself transferred,” she complained. “I am
sure I don’t really mind, for this place is simply _too_ hateful, now,
but I did hope if we were going down into Oude, that we should go to
some nice big station, but of course no one considers me, Richard least
of all, and the place we are going to is a horrid poky little hole,
called Urzeepore. Richard is to officiate as Deputy Commissioner, and of
course he is pleased because his old regiment is stationed there. I told
him I couldn’t think why that should please him, for he always said that
Colonel Crowther was a cross between a monomaniac and a sick baby,
whatever that may be. And Mrs. Crowther must be a dreadful person. But
of course Richard is _immense_ friends with Captain Blake, who is
Adjutant now, and Richard is a person who is very fond of his friends,
though he won’t let me have any!”

“Adela!”

“Well, he _won’t_! If you knew the fusses there have been!”

“My dear Adie, how can you expect——”

Adela stamped her foot.

“I won’t have it, Helen! Not from you—I declare I won’t. When you said
that, you looked the exact image of Richard. He is most unreasonable,
and it isn’t as if I were not _particular_. Why even Charlie Duncan
never so much as kissed me. Bella Carruthers wouldn’t believe me when I
told her so. She lets men kiss her, but I _never_ do. I shouldn’t think
it right, and it isn’t only men Richard objects to, so you needn’t look
at me like that. He was as nasty as he could be about Bella Carruthers!”

“I don’t wonder. She sounds odious,” said Helen shortly.

“Well, she _is_ rather fast,” admitted Adela. “And I’m not nearly as
fond of her as I was. I’d much rather have you, Helen. Do you know I
think you have improved a lot—in looks I mean—I like your hair in that
big plait all round your head. Richard likes it, too. He said he thought
you were very nice-looking, and he hardly ever notices people’s looks.
If it were any one but you, I should be jealous, though of course Dick
isn’t like that. He really doesn’t even look at another woman. Sometimes
I wish he would.”

“Adie! How silly you are.”

“Well, it’s because he watches me. It’s too horrid. You remember what
poor mamma used to say about the way he looked at me? Well, it’s quite
true, and if he would only look at some one else for a change, it would
give me a rest. Of course, I don’t mean anything serious. Just a
flirtation, but Richard doesn’t flirt.”

“And you are not going to either. Adie, you have been a goose, but now
you are going to be good, aren’t you?”

“Oh, I suppose so,” said Adela, and she went away, humming a tune.

Helen sat down and cried. In the two years since she and Adela parted,
Helen had learned many things.

Now the dreams were all gone.




                               CHAPTER VI
                 HOW MRS. CROWTHER GAVE A DINNER-PARTY


                Yesterday’s fire is clean gone out,
                  Yesterday’s hearth is cold.
                No one can either bargain or buy
                  With last year’s gold.
                Greet the new as it passes on,
                  Bid Good-bye to the old,
                Yesterday’s Song is sung to the end,
                  Yesterday’s Tale is told.

The Mortons had been in Urzeepore for a fortnight when Mrs. Crowther
gave a dinner-party, to which they and all official Urzeepore were
bidden. It was a warm March night, and the dinner was rather a
tremendous affair, Mrs. Crowther desiring to make it quite plain that,
Deputy Commissioner or no Deputy Commissioner, she herself was the
leading lady of Urzeepore society, and intended to remain so.

She wore a fateful air, and a garment which was believed to have been
her wedding-dress. It was now dyed grass green, and was adorned with
seven little flounces of green tulle, edged with yellow tinsel trimming.
Above all the expanse of green, Mrs. Crowther’s brick-red countenance
looked several shades redder than usual. Her masses of brilliantly
golden hair hung low on a sunburned neck. Her features were as harsh as
the voice in which she was addressing much rapid conversation to faded,
white-faced Mrs. Marsh, who sat on the sofa beside her.

On either side of the couch stood Carrie and Milly Crowther, and when
their mother wished to make a remark unsuited to their youthful ears,
she dropped into what she believed to be the French language. It had a
most respectably British ring. It was many years since she had acquired
this habit, and it had become second nature.

She rose in the middle of a sentence to shake hands with Mrs. Monson and
Mrs. Elliot. The latter put her head on one side and said languidly:

“We are to meet the Mortons, are we not? I hear she is quite lovely, and
dresses so well. Have you seen her yet?”

“No,” said Mrs. Crowther. She dropped Mrs. Elliot’s hand and sat down
again.

“No,” she repeated, “I have not seen her; I don’t believe any one has
seen her. I called. She has singularly ill-trained servants. The man I
saw had been asleep. He actually yawned in my face. Insolence
_incroyable!_ And he said—he said”—Mrs. Crowther glanced to right and
left, searched in her memory for a recalcitrant French word and decided
upon her native tongue—“he said the Memsahib is in her bath. Dong song
bang!” she repeated in tones of returning confidence.

Mrs. Elliot fixed her with an admiring gaze. “One always bows to
courage,” she murmured in Mrs. Monson’s ear, to which that little lady
responded with a severe “Do be good, Grace.”

“One never does know what they say,” complained Mrs. Marsh. She was
fidgeting with the lace at her elbows, and had conceived a panic lest
the hole she had discovered should be visible to Mrs. Crowther’s
searching eye.

“I wonder if Mrs. Morton is as pretty as they say,” she said hastily.

Mrs. Crowther sniffed aloud.

“I never liked Captain Morton,” she said in virtuous tones. “I never
liked him, but if all that one hears is true, I am sorry for him. He was
a most interfering person as Adjutant. I am sure he used to make my poor
Colonel quite ill. Always fussing about, and wanting to manage
everything and everybody. But if half one hears is true, he can’t manage
his wife. _Elle est très vite_,” she added in a thrilling undertone, and
felt happily convinced that she had informed Mrs. Marsh of the
scandalous fact that Adela Morton was fast.

“Oh, really!”

“Yes, I fear it is too true. _Trop vrai_. My friend, Mrs. Blacker, who
was in Murree last year, wrote me _des histoires
très_,—_très_—er—shocking, I do assure you. Had it not been for
Captain Morton’s former connection with the regiment, I really do not
know that I should have called. _Je ne peux pas dire. Il faut considérer
mes filles._ As it is I shall _not_ encourage any intimacy with Milly
and Carrie, and I shall keep my distance. Mrs. Elliot, how is your
baby?”

“I believe it is quite well,” said Mrs. Elliot indifferently. “The ayah
would have told me if anything were wrong.”

“The ayah!”

“Yes—don’t you think it is so much better for one person to manage a
child? I don’t interfere.”

“Grace!” murmured Mrs. Monson.

She turned to her hostess with a quick, birdlike movement.

“How curious that the Mortons should have been sent here!” she
exclaimed.

“Very _tactless_, I call it,” said Mrs. Crowther. She drew herself up,
and the green silk bodice, made in slimmer days, receded dangerously.

“Tactless?” inquired Mrs. Elliot. “Oh—of course—I see. Yes, it really
_is_ when you come to think of it. Of course he takes precedence of
Colonel Crowther.”

“Oh, no,” protested Mrs. Marsh.

Mrs. Crowther inclined her head—just in time.

“But he is only _officiating_.”

“That makes no difference.”

“How _wrong_! And she?”

Mrs. Crowther once more imperilled her shoulder-straps.

“If any one imagines that I am going to walk out of any dining-room but
my own behind my own Adjutant’s wife, well—_je ne veux pas, c’est
tout_!” and Mrs. Crowther rose with majesty to greet a further
instalment of guests.

“How do you _do_, Captain Blake. You are to take Miss Wilmot in to
dinner; you have not met her, of course. Oh—you have—I should scarcely
have thought it possible, since you only returned from Cawnpore
yesterday. You must have called this morning—really you were most
prompt. Mrs. Morton should be _flattered_. How do you do, Mr. Purslake;
you will take my daughter Carrie. Carrie, show Mr. Purslake the last
drawing you made. Milly, go and tell your papa that it is getting very
late. Oh, here _are_ the Mortons. How do you do, Captain Morton. And
which of these two ladies is your wife? Oh, _not_ this one. Really, Miss
Wilmot, I should have taken _you_ for the married lady; you look so much
graver than your cousin.”

“A bad compliment to me,” said Richard Morton, laughing. “Why should I
be expected to have a depressing effect upon my wife, Mrs. Crowther?”

“I alluded to the cares and responsibilities of the married state,” said
the lady, in her most tremendous tones, and Captain Morton discovered
some intention in the glance with which she favoured Adela.

He hastened to greet his old Colonel, who had just wandered into the
room, convoyed by his daughter Milly. Colonel Crowther was small, and
wore the worried air of a man whose digestion is not at peace within. He
gave Richard two chilly fingers, and an absent glance, and was drifting
in the direction of Dr. Darcy whom he wished to consult about a new
symptom, when he encountered his wife, who despatched him to the
dining-room with Adela.

Helen Wilmot, after admitting to Dr. Darcy that she liked India, and had
been out nearly three years, applied herself to her dinner, and to
making friends with Captain Blake. She found him hard to talk to, but
she liked his shy ways, his deep-set eyes, and his obvious devotion to
Richard Morton.

“Richard must find it curious, being here with his old regiment,” she
said, after a while.

“He’s a deserter, and ought to be court-martialled,” said Captain Blake
abruptly. Then he looked rather alarmed, and tried to cut through the
bone of a cutlet. “Oh, you know, I don’t really mean that, Miss Wilmot,”
and Helen laughed.

“I’ll tell him,” she said, and George Blake began to think her a
charming person. In a vague, absent-minded manner he admired the way in
which she screwed up her eyes when she laughed. He thought it made her
look much younger. Suddenly he became aware that he was staring, and he
blushed and made haste to say:

“We’ve all told him. It’s no good. And now he is the high and mighty
Civil official, and much too grand for the poor old regiment.”

“And you don’t really mean that either, do you?” said Miss Wilmot, and
after that they talked about Richard, and Richard’s doings, until Dr.
Darcy insisted on his share of Helen’s attention.

After dinner she found herself next to a pretty little dark-eyed woman,
with smoothly banded hair.

“I am Mrs. Monson; my husband commands the 11th Irregulars,” said this
little lady. She had a very friendly smile. “It seems rather odd we
should meet here,” she went on; “I mean it’s odd because we live next
door to each other, and this is a mile away.”

“Oh, is yours the house with the roses?” exclaimed Helen.

“Yes,” said the little lady, dimpling. “Aren’t they nice? I am so fond
of them. We have been here for two years, and I have begged, borrowed,
and stolen cuttings from every compound in the place. We all love
flowers.”

“I think I have seen your little girl in the distance,” said Helen.

Mrs. Monson laughed—a funny little laugh, with a gurgle in it.

“Oh! She won’t remain in the distance, I am afraid. We _can’t_ keep her
in our own garden. She will go off and pay calls! I only hope she won’t
bother you, Mrs. Morton.”

Helen started.

“But I’m Miss Wilmot,” she said quickly, and Mrs. Monson blushed
scarlet.

“My dear Miss Wilmot, what a stupid mistake! I am so short-sighted, you
know, and I never noticed who went in to dinner with whom, and you are
so much taller than your cousin, and—and——”

Afterwards she confided in Captain Monson:

“James, wasn’t it foolish? You can’t think how silly I felt, but she sat
there looking so handsome and composed, and the other little creature
had just fluttered out on to the verandah with Mr. Purslake, all smiles
and blushes, and mauve and white ribbons, so of course I thought _she_
was the unmarried one.”

“Which shows you don’t listen to gossip, Lizzie,” said Captain Monson,
and his wife blushed and said:

“And why should I, sir?”

Mrs. Crowther had also watched Adela disappear into the soft dusk of the
verandah. This was exactly the sort of behaviour that she had been led
to expect. Mr. Purslake too—who had obviously joined the ladies early,
in order to have a word with Carrie. Adela had intercepted him, in the
most brazen way, and was walking away with her prize in a manner which
bespoke considerable practice.

“I am sure your garden looks perfectly _sweet_ by moonlight,” she
murmured as she passed her hostess, and Mrs. Crowther became crimson.

“Worse than I expected,” she said in an awful undertone to Mrs. Marsh.
“Worse, much worse. I regret having called. Levity I was prepared for,
heartlessness I anticipated. It did not for an instant surprise me that
she should be in colours so soon after Colonel Wilmot’s death, no—but
some slight respect for me—_pour la femme du Colonel_—I did look
for—I had a right to look for. Did you notice how she walked out of the
dining-room, without so much as turning her head to see if I were
coming? It was just as if _je n’existais pas_!”

“No, no, don’t say so.”

Mrs. Crowther turned to her daughters, and raised her voice.

“Carrie and Milly, you may join Mrs. Morton and Mr. Purslake upon the
verandah. The night is extremely warm.”

“Well, did you have a pleasant evening?” inquired Captain Morton, as
they all drove home.

“_Pleasant!_” Adela’s voice was distinctly cross.

“You didn’t, then?”

“My _dear_ Richard—such dreadful people! Following one about!
Interrupting one’s conversations! You and Helen may have been amused,
but I’m sure I hadn’t a chance, stuck between Colonel Crowther and that
stiff Major Marsh at dinner, and then interminable ages of that dreadful
woman, who kept explaining to me that it would be quite absurd for me to
go in to dinner before she did.”

“Oho, I hadn’t thought of that! Lord, what a joke! Of course you do.”

“Do what? I never can understand what you mean.”

“Why, go in to dinner before our Lady Crowther. Mustn’t she be wild? Was
that why she looked at you so affectionately when you said good-night?”

“I don’t know which is worse, she or her husband,” said Adela.

“What did he enliven the dinner-hour with? He has only two subjects of
conversation, you know—temperance and his own health—sometimes he
blends the two.”

“He was perfectly disgusting,” said Adela, with a toss of her head.

“Oh, then you had the action of alcohol upon the human stomach. That’s a
great favourite; he loves talking about alcohol, and always starts when
Mrs. C. is safely out of hearing. She will have wine on state occasions,
but it is so bad that it really does more to advance the cause of
temperance than all old Crowther’s dissertations. He can’t call his soul
his own, so she gets her own way, and he bears testimony on the sly,
when she isn’t listening.”

“He was dreadful,” said Adela, quite shocked.

Richard laughed, and touched the pony with the whip.

“You should have heard him after dinner,” he said. “First he talked to
Darcy, until Darcy went to sleep. Then he came over to me, and told me
all about his malaria, and how he felt when he had a cold fit, and what
Darcy said when he had a hot fit, and all about his liver.”

“Richard!”

“Well, he did, and finished up by asking me to feel his pulse.”

“I don’t think this is at all a _nice_ conversation,” said Adela with
decision.

“Quite right, my dear; we’ll talk about something else. How did you get
on with Blake, Helen?”

Miss Wilmot turned from the moonlit landscape. There was a queer little
smile on her face.

“Oh, I liked him,” she said.

“He’s a very good fellow. Not a lady’s man, of course.”

“I liked him very much. All of a sudden, you know, the queer way one
does, sometimes. At least I do. One minute you don’t care in the least,
and the next you like the person so much that you feel as if you had
known him for years.”

“My dear Helen, are you trying to break it to us that you have suddenly
formed an unrequited attachment?”

“Yes, that’s it,” said Helen, laughing. “Suddenly you know, in the
middle of the pudding course, I felt as if he were quite an old friend.
I wondered so much what he would do if I were to murmur: ‘A sudden
thought strikes me, let us swear an eternal friendship!’”

“Really, Helen!” protested Adela.

“He’d probably have been delighted. You try him, and if he doesn’t
respond, I’ll call him out. Under that shy manner of his, he’s the soul
of romance.”

“What would he be likely to do?” inquired Miss Wilmot.

“Well, he might seize the nearest menu card, and suggest that you should
immediately subscribe the most tremendous vows, with a pen dipped in
your mutual gore, or he might drop his eyeglass into the finger bowl,
and fly, taking the earliest opportunity of hinting to me that he feared
you were not—not quite, er—right—in the—er—head—you know, Dick”;
and Captain Morton imitated the shy, hesitating drawl which was Captain
Blake’s medium when embarrassed.

“Well, I think you are both mad,” said Adela.

“What, poor George too? Well, you can tell him so, for he’s coming on to
have a talk and a smoke.”

“To-night?”

“Yes, to-night. I’ve not seen him—to speak to—since he got back. So if
you want to tell him he is mad, and if Helen wants him to swear eternal
friendship, now’s your chance.”

“Thank you,” said Miss Wilmot; “I can wait.”

The trap drew up, and Adela spoke in a vexed tone as her husband helped
her down.

“You are going to sit up and smoke?”

“We are. Imam Bux,” to the sleepy bearer who stumbled to his feet as
they came up the verandah steps, “Blake Sahib is coming. Bring pegs.”

“That horrid tobacco! The house will be full of it next day.”

“Oh, I don’t think so.”

“Well, I do. Really, Richard, if I had only thought of it, I would have
made you promise to give up smoking before I married you.”

“Would you?” said Richard, lifting the split bamboo screen for the
ladies to pass into the house.

Helen went silently to her own door, but Adela hung back. “You would
have done it to please me _then_,” she said. She was pouting a little,
and inclined to flirt with her husband, since there was no one else
available.

“I don’t think so, my dear.”

“You _would_. You were in love with me then, Dick——”

Captain Morton raised his eyebrows, and looked round to discover that
they were alone.

“My dear Adela, suppose you follow Helen to bed.”

“You _were_—madly. You would have done anything that I asked.”

“I might have reflected that a woman who could make so unreasonable a
request—” Richard Morton paused, and turned to the table. He took up
the heavy cut-glass decanter which stood there, and measured out a peg.

“You would have done _any_thing,” repeated Adela.

Richard looked at her, half absently. Perhaps he was trying to recall
the memory of those hot days of passion. Perhaps he was trying to forget
them. A proud man, whose feelings are at once deep and sensitive, may
well shrink from recalling a passion which has humiliated him, and has
failed to satisfy a single one of the cravings of his nature. Things
were settling down now. Helen Wilmot was a comfortable third person in
the household. Her presence made for safety and domesticity. Her
influence with Adela was decidedly a success. Richard Morton valued
peace in the domestic circle. Since his wife’s cousin had been an inmate
of his house, there had been no more scenes.

Adela spent a good deal of money on clothes, but she was not always
riding with some infatuated young man. She no longer passed whole
mornings gossiping with Mrs. Carruthers, a person to whom Richard had
the greatest objection.

He traced all these improvements to Helen Wilmot, and was duly grateful.
But, whilst anxious for peace, he was very far from desiring to renew
the old service of adoration. Of late he had thought that Adela resented
this attitude. His temper stirred as he suspected a desire to employ
some otherwise idle moments in bringing him once again under the yoke.
He did not look at Adela now, and there was a little frown between his
eyes as he crossed to the fireplace, reached for his pipe, and said
rather shortly:

“Blake will be here in a moment. You had better go to bed, Adela.”

She went as far as the door and came back again.

“You _are_ cross,” she said, “and you’ve never said a word about my new
dress. I don’t believe you even _noticed_ it. And it is so pretty. I
designed it, and Helen stood over the dirzee whilst he made it. I am
sure it looks just as if I had had it out from home. Don’t you think so?
Don’t you like it?”

“Yes, it is very pretty.”

“And becoming, too, don’t you think? That pale mauve is a very trying
colour, you know, but Helen said she was sure I could stand it, and it
goes so well with my amethyst necklace. Do you remember when you gave it
to me?”

Yes, he remembered. It was when the world seemed too little to give.
Eighteen months ago in Murree, and she had just told him about the
child. He could see the blue hills now, and the blue mist across the
plains. Intimate memories which had been hushed away into silence woke a
little, and whispered in him. There was only one lamp in the room, and
it threw a hazy golden light over Adela in her soft white dress.

“Dick, don’t you ever remember?”

Adela was quite close now, her hand on the mantelpiece beside his arm,
her bare arm brushing his shoulder. If he were to turn his head, and
bend it ever so little more, he might kiss the dimpled hollow beneath
her upraised chin.

Yes, he remembered—and with remembrance came a sharp stab of anger.
That she should be capable of stirring such a memory for the sake of
furthering an idle flirtation, would have served, had it been necessary,
to divest Richard Morton of his last illusion with regard to his wife.
But it was not necessary. During the two and a half years of their
married life he had come to realise, at first dimly and with great pain,
but later on with a certain hard clarity of vision, that Adela neither
responded, nor desired to respond, to anything but admiration. For this
she lived. For this she had an appetite so insatiable, that deprived of
it she pined, and could be driven to seek it even from the husband whose
prodigality in this respect had once awakened the tyrant in her. But any
answer of the heart, any response of the intelligence, any home
affection, Adela had not to give. That her beauty still had power to
move him was a fact of which Richard Morton was aware—a fact for which
he despised himself.

He had no desire that Adela should share either the knowledge or the
contempt. He had given of his best, and it had not been received. He
would not offer his worst upon the altar once held sacred. She had been
the mother of his child—his son.

That bitter disappointment ached in him still.

“Dick, you might—look—at me,” said Adela’s soft voice, very softly.

Through the open doorway came the sound of wheels. Richard Morton
straightened himself, with a breath of relief.

“There’s Blake,” he said; and as Adela turned pettishly away he moved to
the table, and took a long drink before going to meet his friend.




                              CHAPTER VII
               HOW CAPTAIN MORTON TALKED ABOUT CHUPATTIS


               Borrow of Life as you please,
                 What has it got to lend?
               What that is better than these—
                 A sword, and a horse, and a friend?

               Love is but dangerous stuff,
                 Heavy at heart in the end.
               These three things are enough—
                 A sword, and a horse, and a friend.

“Come along into the office, George,” said Richard Morton, leading the
way.

“Imam Bux, give the Sahib a peg, a large peg, and the chair that doesn’t
break when you sit on it. Son of owls, that is the broken chair. Take it
away and have it burnt. Do you wish to kill Blake Sahib?”

“Blake Sahib is my father and my mother,” said Imam Bux with much
gravity. He set a lamp upon the office table as he spoke and the light
struck upwards, and gave his long grey beard a golden tinge.

“Much obliged to you, I’m sure, Imam Bux,” said Captain Blake. “You look
very well. You didn’t get your throat cut in Peshawur after all, you
see. Last time I saw you, you were quite sure that a wild Pathan was
going to slit that villainous old gizzard of yours, eh?”

“By the favour of the Sahib I am returned alive,” said Imam Bux.
“Peshawur is a bad place. All those who are not thieves there, are
murderers.”

He salaamed and waddled ponderously to the verandah door, where he
disappeared into the darkness. After a moment or two a sound of muffled
snoring announced the resumption of his slumbers.

“Light up, George,” said Captain Morton.

“Sure it’s allowed?”

Richard gave a short laugh.

“You are a heathen, George. You don’t know your prayer-book. It is the
lady who says ‘obey’ in the marriage service, not the man.”

“Saying isn’t doing,” observed Captain Blake, with some wisdom. “Same
old service five-and-twenty years ago, I take it, so the Crowther must
have said she’d obey the poor old Colonel. Nobody has ever noticed her
doing it, but perhaps the Colonel got muddled up and said her bits by
mistake. If he was the same five-and-twenty years ago as he is now, it’s
more than likely.”

“You’ve hit on an isolated case.”

“I’ve hit on an awful warning,” said Captain Blake solemnly. All the
time he was talking, his eyes were upon his friend’s face, with the
gentle absent expression which was one of his characteristics. His voice
was very slow and inexpressive. He wasn’t quite sure about the
solitariness of that awful warning. Dick looked as if he had had some
pretty bad times since they had met. There was a deep vertical line
between his eyes that used not to show like that. H’m, marriage was
certainly the deuce, and Captain Blake thanked fate and his own caution
that he was a lonely bachelor.

“How are you settling down, Dick?” he inquired, after a moment or two.
“Adamson left you something to do, didn’t he? I hope to goodness it’s
true that he doesn’t mean coming back. He was the laziest man in Oude
when he hadn’t got fever, and the limpest rag in Asia when he had.”

“I should think he was about as much good at his job as Imam Bux would
be. Young Jelland seems a nice boy, but inclined to take things easy.
Fatehshah Khan seems to have done more work than the other two, but,
Lord, George, fancy leaving land cases to be settled by a native extra
Assistant Commissioner! Talk of muddles. It’s a year since we annexed
Oude. Goodness knows things must have been mixed up enough to start
with, but Adamson seems to have managed to give ’em just that extra
amount of tangling that makes it perfectly certain they’ll never come
straight. I wish I had come here at once, when we took things over. One
wouldn’t have been bound by the muddles of the Oude Government, but
Adamson’s muddles are a different story.”

“Oh, you’ll get it straight in time.”

“A combination of Solomon, Manu, and Socrates couldn’t get it straight,”
said Captain Morton with emphasis. “As far as I can make out, no matter
in whose favour a suit is settled, there will always be at least two
other claimants, quite as likely to be in the right. And that’s what we
call pacifying the country districts. It’s this blessed chuckladaree
system that’s the very devil and all.”

“Can’t say I’ve ever grasped it,” said Blake.

“Happy George! You haven’t had to. I’ve been struggling for a fortnight,
and as far as I’ve got, it’s like this. Oude was split into twenty-two
chuckladarees or districts under the late King. Each chuckladaree had
its own chuckladar, who paid a fixed sum to the Government, and then
collected as much more as he could from his unfortunate district. The
more he could squeeze out, the better for him, of course. Then we get
the zemindars. There are any amount of them round here—large
landowners—and a lot of them have done the same thing on a small scale
as the King of Oude has done on a big one. They were too grand or too
lazy to collect their own rents, so they set up agents who paid them a
fixed amount, and made what they could on the transaction. Son would
succeed father as agent, and things would go on very comfortably for
every one, except the wretched peasant, until the King’s chuckladar
appeared on the scenes, and demanded more than the zemindar would pay.
The chuckladar would back up his demand with troops—who were also on
the lookout for a chance of making money—and discretion being the
better part of valour the zemindar would either pay or run away. In the
latter case, the muddle becomes most complicated, for in many cases the
agent seems to have taken the opportunity of making a bid for the
possession of the land. If the chuckladar thought he could make money
out of a change of ownership he was quite willing, and after a hundred
years of this sort of thing, I ask you how is a wretched Deputy
Commissioner to discover which of all the gentlemen who are swearing by
their fathers’ beards, and their children’s heads, and Mother Ganges,
and all the rest of it—which of ’em, I say, is the least deeply dipped
in perjury?”

“Why ask me?” murmured Blake.

“I don’t. Fatehshah Khan would like me to ask him, but I don’t do that
either. Now there was a queer thing happened yesterday. A case came
up—it had been dragging on from Adamson’s time—just the sort of thing
I have been describing. Every one swearing themselves black in the face.
Adamson, guided by Fatehshah Khan, had apparently more or less committed
himself to a gentleman called Madho Missa, who had a whole pile of
documents which at any rate proved conclusively that he had always
collected the revenue. Jelland informed me that the betting in the
bazaar was upon Madho Missa. Jelland apparently has sporting tastes.
Then Aunut Singh, the rival claimant, came along and declared with oaths
and tears that Madho Missa’s family were only agents of his family. He
wept profusely. When he stopped, I had a good look at him. He was a
plump person with only one eye, and a very crooked front tooth that
showed every time he opened his mouth. George, my friend, I recognised
him.”

“You what?”

“Recognised him. It is—it is my long-lost uncle, and all the rest of
it. What it is to have a good memory! Ages ago, in the prehistoric past,
my old governor raised a regiment for the King of Oude, and Aunut
Singh’s brother was one of the native officers. Aunut Singh came to
visit him, and I remember him very well. I was eight, and his crooked
tooth and rolling eye remained fixed in my memory.”

“What did you do? Fall on his neck?”

“No, I restrained my ardent feelings, but I directed a few questions to
Mr. Madho Missa that brought what novels call ‘tears of sensibility’ to
his eyes. You see I had had the advantage of hearing the matter threshed
out in detail between Aunut Singh and his brothers, and at eight years
old one takes a passionate interest in other people’s affairs. I am now
trying to get hold of an impartial witness or two, if there is one to be
had, and I shouldn’t wonder if Aunut Singh went to his grave calling
down blessings on my head.”

“I don’t see how you remembered.”

“I don’t see how, but I did. D’ye know, George, we were camped here for
a time, and every now and then when I am out riding the queerest
recollections come over me. A bridge, a temple, or a turn of the road is
as familiar as can be. For perhaps a dozen yards or so I could go
blindfold, and when I look over my shoulder I expect to see my father on
his great black horse that the natives called ‘Shaitan’ because he
killed a man who attacked him when he was riding home in the dark one
night.”

“Killed him, did he?”

“Yes, got him by the shoulder, shook the breath out of him, and then
trampled him to death. The governor got off with a scratch, and there
wasn’t a native in the district who didn’t believe the horse was
possessed by the Colonel Sahib’s own private and particular devil.”

Richard Morton filled another pipe, pushed his tobacco pouch across to
his friend, and asked:

“How’re things with the regiment, George?”

There was a little bit of a pause. Then Captain Blake said in his usual
half-hesitating manner:

“Have the native officers been up to see you, Dick?”

“Some of them have.”

“Not all of them?”

“No, not all of them.”

“Which of them didn’t come?”

“It’s more a case of which of them did come,” said Richard Morton with
no expression in his voice. His face was in shadow, and he did not look
at his friend.

“Er—yes. Which of them did come?”

“Amanut Khan, Jowahir Lal, Dewan Ali, and Durga Ram.”

“Not the Subadar Major?”

“He had a bad foot.”

“No one else?”

“Issuree Singh, my old orderly.”

“Is that all?”

“That is all.”

There was another short silence.

Then Richard Morton took his pipe out of his mouth and said, “What does
it mean, George?”

“What should you say it meant?”

“That they were up to something, and not too anxious to meet me.”

Captain Blake emitted a dense cloud of smoke, and stared through it at
the rafters. They looked immensely high up, and black, and far away, and
the smoke rose towards them in thin wreaths that lessened and vanished.

“Just so—not too anxious to meet you,” he said. “I suppose you know
they have always believed you have the power of reading a man’s
thoughts.”

“Nonsense.”

“Fact. Ever since that business of Mir Ali’s eight years ago. And here
is proof. I’d no sooner got back yesterday evening than my bearer came
to me with the bazaar version of that very yarn you’ve just been
spinning. It appears he comes from Koti, Aunut Singh’s village, or his
brother’s second cousin’s grandmother lives there, or something—you
know what natives are. Well, he says of course every soul in the place
knew that Aunut Singh was in the right, but the other man had the
papers, and the favour of the extra Commissioner Sahib—your friend
Fatehshah Khan—and no one was going to make unpleasantness by offering
an unsolicited opinion. Adamson was bamboozled, and didn’t care; as old
Purun remarked, ‘Adamson Sahib is like a child. When a man swears, he
believes him. He says, “Has he not sworn?” But God reads the heart, and
so does Morton Sahib.’”

“A little difficult to live up to—that,” said Richard Morton.

His voice was rather hard. Perhaps he was thinking that this quality of
his had served him but poorly in his private occasions.

He pulled at his pipe for a moment, and then said:

“What are they up to, George?”

Captain Blake remained silent.

When the silence had lasted a long time he said:

“The Colonel is quite satisfied. So is Marsh.”

“And you?”

“Do a bit of your mind-reading,” said Captain Blake, with a curious
laugh.

“Well, George, you are not a brick wall. If you want me to say it,
you’re damned unsatisfied.”

“Quite so, Dick”; and another little pause ensued.

The night was warm and still. The screens of split bamboo which usually
meshed the two long windows had been rolled up to admit the air, and a
strip of dark, star-sown sky could be seen between the line of the
verandah roof and the tangle of rose and oleander which made an
impenetrable thicket on this side of the neglected garden. In the
distance there was a faint rustling sound that might be the first
whisper of a coming breeze. It was far away on the extreme limit of
consciousness, but it was there.

“Well, what is it, George?” said Richard Morton at last; and Captain
Blake stared at the ceiling and said:

“You can call it the new cartridge, if you like. They are all playing
the fool about that.”

“But you’ve never got ’em here so soon? The world must be coming to an
end if you have.”

“No, of course we’ve not got them here, but d’you think a little thing
like that is going to stop them? We had half a dozen men at Umballa to
learn the new drill, and since they came back at Christmas——”

“Well?”

Captain Blake crossed his legs.

“Of course I had them up and talked to them like a father, and they
agreed with every word I said.”

“Beshak Sahib!” interjected Captain Morton with half a laugh.

“Damn their Beshak,” said Captain Blake, with the hesitation gone clean
out of his voice. “I believe the wildest tales have been going round.
Pig’s lard, cow’s fat, anything you please, all mixed up to grease this
infernal cartridge with.”

“If they really believe that there will be big trouble,” said Richard
Morton quickly.

“Who’s to say what they really believe!”

“Well—” Richard considered. “What about the men who went to
Umballa—any of them Brahmins?”

“Yes, four of them.”

“How did the others receive them? Will they eat with them, and so
forth?”

“Oh, yes, that’s all right.”

“H’m. If they really believed the new drill obliged men to bite
cartridges greased with beef fat, they’d have outcasted them.”

“Well, I hear that has happened in other places.”

“That a fact?”

“Enough of a fact to make the authorities give a whole batch of the
Umballa men a month’s leave, and orders to rejoin at the depot—at the
depot—afterwards.”

Captain Morton whistled.

“That’s bad.”

“Damn bad,” said George Blake, his pensive gaze still fixed on the
rafters.

After a time he looked down, and observed:

“Ever seen chupattis passed round, Dick?”

“Passed round?”

“Passed from hand to hand, and from village to village, all over the
country.”

“I’ve heard the talk, of course. Has it been going on here?”

Captain Blake nodded.

“And at Cawnpore,” he said, “and round Agra. Everywhere else for all I
know.”

“When?”

“Just before you came.”

“What do the natives say?”

“They don’t say anything. There have been lotus leaves passed round in
the lines too.”

Captain Morton put down his pipe.

“Lotus leaves?”

“Yes.”

“That’s queer. I never heard of them.”

“Did you ever hear of chupattis going round—before this, I mean?”

“Yes, I did, when I was a child. We were at Mahumdee at the time, and
there was a lot of talk. The servants all talked, and of course I took
it all in.”

“What did they say?”

“They wondered what was going to happen. Apparently they at once
expected something to happen—something calamitous. But they didn’t know
what.”

“Did anything happen?”

“Yes, a very bad smallpox epidemic.”

“But how, in Heaven’s name?”

“Yes, I know, but it did happen, and every one believed the chupatti had
been a warning.”

Captain Blake looked at his watch.

“We had better get vaccinated in the morning,” he observed, “and
meanwhile we had better go to bed; I’ve got an early parade.”




                              CHAPTER VIII
                      HOW MISS MONSON PAID A CALL


         Have you heard the Piper calling?
         Have you heard the echoes falling?
         Have you heard the Piper calling,
           The Piper on the hill?
         For if you have heard the Piper play
         You must follow by night, you must follow by day,
         Though it’s over the hills and far away,
           You must follow the Piper still.

Helen Wilmot lay in bed and watched the light creep lower and lower upon
the whitewashed wall. The verandah shaded the doors which opened upon
it, but a dusty shaft of sunshine slanted through a small oblong window
set high up under the rafters. As the light shifted slowly downwards it
was reflected in faint rose and violet tints upon the white expanse
above the long glass doors. The doors themselves stood wide, and a
delicious freshness came through the screens of split bamboo which
filled the open spaces.

A chattering of birds, a murmur of voices from the servants’
houses—little mud huts clustering at the edge of the compound,—and the
far-away droning of a Persian wheel made up a most soothing, drowsy
noise, and Helen, though she had been awake for an hour, felt lazy, and
by no means inclined to get up. She closed her eyes, and listened to the
sparrows fighting under the eaves. Perhaps she even dozed.

Suddenly she was roused by a little fidgeting sound, and in a moment she
turned and was aware of a small person, who was standing just inside the
nearer of the two long windows. It was a quaint small person in a white
frock and starched white pantalets. In one hand she held a broad-brimmed
grey felt hat that obviously belonged to some one several sizes larger
than herself. The other hand rested on the chick behind her, as if to
secure her line of retreat. When she saw Helen’s eyes open, she stared
into them with a pair of very round brown ones, and then said in a
particularly clear and emphatic manner:

“I have come to pay a call.”

“Dear me,” said Miss Wilmot. “How rude of me not to be up!”

“I like you in bed. I like paying calls. I did forget to bring a card,
but my name is Miss Margaret Elizabeth Monson.”

“Oh,” said Helen, much impressed. “Must I call you all that?”

“It would be polite.”

Miss Monson advanced into the room with a slow and stately step. With
her left hand she retained her hold of the hat, and held up an already
sufficiently abbreviated skirt. Her right hand she offered to Helen, who
had an instant recollection of Mrs. Elliot’s languid manner of shaking
hands.

“How do you do, Miss Wilmot?” she said in the accents of polite society.
“I hope you are well. I hope you are quite well.”

“Yes, thank you.”

The conversation languished a little. Miss Monson suddenly dropped the
grey felt hat, and put her hand on Helen’s arm.

“I am bored of being polite. Are you bored of being polite? I am very
bored of it. I am bored of calling you Miss Wilmot. I would much rather
call you Helen lady. You are the Helen one, aren’t you? And I am bored
of being Miss Margaret Elizabeth Monson. If you like you can call me
Megsie Lizzie, like my papa does.”

Helen received the permission with gravity.

“And what does your mamma call you?” she inquired.

Megsie Lizzie was climbing on to the foot of the bed.

“‘My lamb,’” she answered in matter-of-fact tones. “She calls me ‘my
lamb’ and ‘my precious,’ and ‘my own lovey darling,’ but you couldn’t
call me all those things.”

“No, of course not.”

“I’m five. It’s rather old for India, isn’t it?” Again there was a
reminiscence of some older person. “But if I went away from my mamma,
her heart would break—right across in two pieces.”

“Oh, dear!”

“Yes, _indeed_,” said Megsie Lizzie, screwing up her button of a mouth,
and nodding with an uncanny air of wisdom.

A distant, unhappy cry of “Missee Baba!” became audible. After a moment
it was repeated. Megsie Lizzie frowned.

“Is that some one calling you?” asked Helen.

Megsie Lizzie’s frown deepened.

“It is Mooniah. She is a most iggerant woman. I suppose I have told her
three million times that I will not be called ‘Missee Baba.’”

“Missee Baba—a—a!” wailed the voice, shrilly nasal on the high note at
the end.

Mooniah was a good deal nearer.

“Megsie Lizzie,” said Helen, “I’m afraid you’ve run away.”

Megsie Lizzie tossed her head; seven brown ringlets tossed too.

“She is a stupid thing. Let us talk ’bout something else.”

“Very well, what shall we talk about?”

“Shall I tell you a story?”

“That would be very nice.”

“Well, once upon a time there was a man, and his name was Gideon
and——”

Megsie Lizzie stopped abruptly.

“I forgot—it’s a Sunday story,” she explained.

“Never mind—do go on.”

“But this is a Wednesday. You can’t tell Sunday stories on a Wednesday
day.”

“Why not?”

Megsie Lizzie looked doubtful. Then she said firmly:

“Because Sunday days is different from Wednesday days. They are quite
different. They are a different colour.”

Helen looked at the earnestly frowning little face, and did not smile.
Instead she said in a soft, lazy voice:

“What colour is Sunday?”

“White,” said Megsie Lizzie, screwing up her eyes as if she were trying
to see something. “A very shiny white, and up at the top there are some
little goldy speckles. And Wednesday is green, so of course you couldn’t
mix them, without getting the Sunday colour all spoilt.”

Helen thought for a moment.

“Supposing we were to pretend it was Sunday,” she suggested.

“Are you a good pretender?” inquired the child.

“Very good, and I am sure you are. Let us both pretend very hard.”

Megsie Lizzie put both hands over the damp little forehead, and pressed
them so tightly that the knuckles stood up white on her plump, brown
hands.

There was a pause. Then she sat up very straight.

“Have you pretended? I have. Now it is Sunday, and I have said my
prayers, and had my breakfast, and so have you, and you are my fifth
daughter, and I am going to tell you a Sunday story. A real proper one,
so you must attend.”

“Missee Baba—a—a—a!” called the afflicted Mooniah in tones of
despair.

Helen could see her now, standing at the edge of the verandah where an
abandoned doll betrayed its mistress’s passage.

Megsie Lizzie turned her head, and saw too.

“Mooniah—chup—be silent,” she cried, and Mooniah fidgeted from one
bare foot to the other, and called again:

“Ai Missee Baba! Very narty Missee Baba.”

“There isn’t _any_ Missee Baba here ’t all,” retorted Miss Monson hotly.
“There is only a Miss Sahib, a big Miss Sahib. I am paying a call. I am
with Wilmot Miss Sahib. I also am a Miss Sahib. Mooniah, daughter of an
owl, am I a Miss Sahib, or am I not?”

“God knows,” snuffled Mooniah.

“I know,” said Miss Monson with decision. “Thou also knowest. Sit down
and wait till I come, and be silent. The Miss Sahib and I are talking.”

Mooniah collapsed into a despondent heap, and Megsie Lizzie abandoned
the vernacular.

“Now I will begin,” she said. “That is a most inrupting woman—inrupting
and iggerant. Well, there was a man called Gideon, and he rolled a cake
into a tent. No, that’s not the beginning. First of all he made a lot of
soldiers come, and they didn’t want to come, and they lapped water out
of their hands, and God was angry with them. And do you know why He was
angry with them?” she demanded impressively.

Helen experienced a slight confusion of mind in face of this rapid
presentment of the Scriptural tale.

“Do _you_ know why?” she inquired.

“Because they hadn’t _any_ faith, not even the mustard-seed sort,” said
Megsie Lizzie. Then she relaxed the intensity of her expression, and
said calmly:

“Of course it would have been all right if there _hadn’t_ been any God.”

Helen gasped.

“Megsie Lizzie, what do you mean?”

“Well, it would, because if there wasn’t any God they wouldn’t have been
wicked about not having faith. But of course there _is_, so they were.”

“Yes, of course,” murmured Helen, feeling a little incoherent.

“Yes,” said Megsie Lizzie, nodding wisely. “And what I think about it is
this. If there wasn’t any God, where do the trees come from, and the
flowers, and the little weeny teeny tiny seeds what the trees come out
of, because there was seeds before there was any trees, wasn’t there,
and if God didn’t make them, who did?”

Helen was speechless. When she came to know Megsie Lizzie a little
better, she recognised the fact that argument with that young lady
invariably reduced the grown-up participant to speechlessness.

Miss Monson now gave a little sigh, and arose.

“I s’pose I must go,” she said, with regret. “Mooniah! Mooniah! Get up.
I am coming. Do you like tea-parties, Helen lady?”

“Sometimes.”

“Would you like a tea-party with me?”

“I should love it.”

Helen smiled as she spoke, but the round, brown eyes which were fixed on
hers remained preternaturally grave.

“Oh,” said Megsie Lizzie. Then briskly: “Shall we have a tea-party
to-day? Shall we have it here, in your house, in the verandah? It is a
nicer verandah than our verandah. And I pour out the tea? And you
pretend I’m a lady what has come all the way from England to pay a
call?”

“How tired you will be!”

“Yes, I shall want lots of tea. My name will be Mrs. Brown Jones. Yes,
Mooniah, I am coming. It’s very rude to inrupt ladies what is saying
good-bye in a polite way.”

Megsie Lizzie picked up the felt hat as she spoke, and crammed it upon
her head. It came well down over her eyes, and was tilted at an
extremely rakish angle, which went oddly with the prim starched skirts
and crackling pantalets. When she was ready she kissed Helen gravely,
and walked to the door, where she paused and turned, one hand on the
chick.

“Thank you very much for my _kind_ call,” she said with great dignity,
and departed, just in time to preserve Helen from the dangerous effects
of laughter too long repressed.

“Whom on earth were you talking to?” said Adela, half an hour later,
when Helen and the early tea arrived simultaneously upon the verandah
outside her room.

“I have had the honour of a call from Miss Margaret Elizabeth Monson,”
said Helen gravely.

“Miss? Oh, that Monson child. I should say she was horribly spoiled.
Mrs. Crowther said so last night.”

Helen’s lips twitched.

“I wonder what she says about us?” she said lazily.

“Why should she say anything?”

“My child, I should say she was a lady who had a great deal to say about
every one. I shouldn’t wonder, I really shouldn’t wonder, Adie, if she
said that you were spoiled too.”

Adela tossed her head.

“As if I should care what she said! And as to being spoiled, I am sure I
don’t see who there is to spoil me—with Richard as cross as cross.”

“Adie!”

“Well, he is, and if you were married to him, you’d know he was. Why, he
wouldn’t even kiss me last night!”

Helen changed the subject.

“I am going to have a tea-party this afternoon,” she announced.

“I suppose you mean you are going out to tea?”

“No, I don’t. I am going to have a tea-party. Here. On this very spot.
No, I suppose it will have to be the other side—outside the office—on
account of the sun. Mrs. Brown Jones is coming to tea.”

Adela looked cross.

“It’s some nonsense, I suppose,” she said. “How can you be so silly,
Helen, and at your age! I’m sure I don’t see anything to laugh at. Is it
that child?”

“It is.”

“Well, if you like to be bothered with her! Personally I can’t imagine
anything more tiresome. Children are so _wearing_.”

Helen laughed.

“That’s what I feel about young men,” she said, with a spice of malice
in her voice. “It doesn’t bother you to have adoring sticks of creatures
trailing about after you all day, but I really couldn’t stand it. I
should want to slap them, or scream, or something, after an hour or two.
That is what I call wearing.”

“You’ve never tried it,” said Adela, her eyes narrowing a little.

“I’ve never had the chance, you mean, my dear!”

Helen’s laugh was so good-tempered that Adela’s irritation subsided.

“Well, it is your own fault if you haven’t,” she said graciously, “for
really you know, Helen, you are quite good-looking. Of course you have
no colour, but really some people think you quite handsome. I believe
Richard does. I think you have improved too, or perhaps it is that no
one has any colour here, so one doesn’t notice your being pale. If only
you didn’t look so—so clever—and forbidding, only you know you _will_
look like a Roman Empress, or something of that sort, whenever a man
looks at you, or pays you a compliment, or anything.”

“A great many of the Roman Empresses were anything but repressive,” said
Helen pensively. “Some of them weren’t even respectable—I think it’s
rather hard.”

Adela looked shocked.

“Helen—as if—I meant anything like that—you do say things! You know
quite well I meant that you looked haughty—and proud.”

“I feel shy,” said Miss Wilmot with the utmost composure.

“Then you should blush. That is becoming, and it doesn’t frighten a
man.”

Helen began to laugh.

“Oh, Adela—don’t! I’ve laughed more than is good for any one already
this morning. Will you teach me to change colour becomingly? Blushing in
six easy lessons! My dear, it’s a shameful confession, but I really
couldn’t blush if I tried. I don’t know how it’s done. Perhaps I take
after the Roman Empresses in that too. There was a lady called Messalina
who couldn’t blush either. I really think you had better begin the
lessons this afternoon. Megsie Lizzie could have them too.”

“I sha’n’t be at home this afternoon.”

Adela was pouring herself out some more tea, and she did not look at her
cousin.

“Why, where are you going?”

“I am going to ride with Mr. Purslake.”

Helen passed her own cup.

“What are you going to ride, my dear?” she asked in an indifferent
manner.

“He has a very nice horse which will carry a lady perfectly,” said
Adela, but she did not meet Helen’s eyes.

“I wonder what lady it has carried,” said Helen. “Miss Crowther, I
suppose.”

Adela put her chin in the air.

“What any one can see in that straw-coloured wisp!” she began, but Helen
interrupted her:

“Adie, I wouldn’t,” she said in a soft, hesitating voice.

“Well, I am going to.”

Adela flushed.

“Why? Really, Helen, do you suppose I am going to sit indoors all day
long with my hands folded, and nothing to think of except how hot it is?
I have said all along that it was perfectly odious of Richard to expect
us to stay down in this heat. Inhuman I call it. I dare say Dick would
_like_ me to die, but I don’t intend to oblige him, and riding is very
good for me—and if Richard won’t take the trouble to buy me a horse of
my own, he cannot be surprised if I allow a friend to lend me one.”

“A friend?”

“Yes! And an old friend too.”

“Now, Adela!”

“It is quite true. I met Mr. Purslake at a dance quite five years ago.”

“And you had completely forgotten that he existed, until you met him
here last week.”

“I suppose you are jealous,” said Adela, her colour rising. “It is all
very well to talk, but if you aren’t jealous, why should you object to
any one admiring _me_? And you do. I mustn’t speak to any one or have a
friend, or go for a ride, or do a single thing. If you don’t take care
you’ll be an old maid, Helen. Men simply hate a jealous woman!”

Helen’s eyes grew vague. She looked over the tree-tops, and appeared to
be thinking of something else.

Suddenly she looked at Adela, and laughed.

“Adie, how many feathers has a pink parrot got in his tail?” she said.

Adela stared, and Helen’s eyes danced.

“Oh, Adela, don’t; it isn’t kind of you; it really isn’t.”

To which Mrs. Morton responded with dignity:

“Well, of course I don’t want to hurt your feelings, but it is true, and
if I were not fond of you, I shouldn’t take the trouble to give you a
warning.”

“But you haven’t.”

“I haven’t done what?”

“Warned me. What will happen when I find out how many feathers—no, I
really must not laugh any more—a pink parrot—has in its tail? Oh,
dear!”

“Helen, are you quite mad?”

“No, my child.”

“Is there such a thing as a pink parrot?”

“I expect not.”

“Then what on earth——”

Mrs. Morton paused for enlightenment.

“Just a little mental slide,” said Helen gravely. “If I had been capable
of blushing, I should have blushed just now. It is quite easy.
Blushes—red—pink—a parrot on the peepul tree, a conviction that it
was too hot to quarrel, a strong desire to change the subject, natural
result the evolution of a creature hitherto unknown to history. Mrs.
Morton, allow me to introduce to your esteemed notice that rare and
curious bird—the pink parrot—only still I don’t know how many feathers
it has in its tail!”

“Sometimes I think you _are_ mad,” said Adela resignedly.

“So do I, but it is ever so much better than being cross. We will now do
another mental slide. Shut your eyes and hold on. Pink is the
starting-point. Slide from there to pink muslin. Now let go of the pink,
steady yourself on the muslin, and catch hold of the next shade that
comes. Rose—rose and grey—a combination common to cockatoos and your
new muslin dress. And I’ve got a perfectly splendid idea for the
trimming. So you had better come and see the dirzee with me at once,
before it evaporates. He could fit you this afternoon.”

“This afternoon I shall be out riding,” said Adela in a small obstinate
voice.




                               CHAPTER IX
                       HOW HELEN GAVE A TEA-PARTY


       Oh! to hear the Piper calling,
       Oh! to hear the echoes falling,
       They are rising, falling, calling,
         At the wayward Piper’s will.
       And he who has heard the Piper play
       Has the moon, and the stars, and the sun, and the day,
       And the path to the hills of the Far-a-way,
         Where the Piper is calling still.

Mrs. Brown Jones was unfashionably punctual. All her garments appeared
to have been freshly starched for the occasion. For a time it seemed as
if some of the surplus starch had affected her manners, and the
etiquette observed would have put the Austrian Court to shame.

“I have brought my daughter,” said Mrs. Brown Jones, after many
preliminary bows and compliments had passed, and the daughter, a very
limp, dishevelled doll, was encouraged to extend a battered hand.

“Her name is Miss Anna Maria Matilda Jenkins Sweet Pea,” said the fond
mamma, in the accents of lofty pride. Then with an abrupt transition she
became Megsie Lizzie, and entered upon a rapid explanation.

“It isn’t really, you know, Helen lady, because mamma called her
Caroline, after Aunt Caroline, who sent her to me when I was only four,
but now Aunt Caroline is dead, so we call her something else.”

“I think Anna Maria Matilda Jenkins Sweet Pea is a beautiful name,” said
Helen.

“Yes, isn’t it? It is prettier than Caroline, only I must not say so
because of Aunt Caroline being dead. People who are dead are always
better than other people, aren’t they?”

Helen had noticed this phenomenon herself, but she did not say so.
Fortunately Mrs. Brown Jones did not wait for an answer. Experience had
taught her that grown-up people scarcely ever answered questions about
really interesting things.

“She has a terrible lot of relations,” she sighed.

“Your aunt has?”

“No. We was her relations. She hadn’t any others. We hadn’t got any
relations to speak of, because of both my grandmothers being only
children,” explained Megsie Lizzie at her most grown-up. “But Anna Maria
Matilda has got lots and lots of relations. She has got all the ones
what we haven’t got. They are her relations. They are not my relations.”

“Oh, dear,” said Helen, “that doesn’t sound as if they were very nice.”

“Some of them are nice, and some of them aren’t,” said Megsie Lizzie in
a resigned sort of way. “There is Uncle Henry Albert.”

“Is he nice?”

“Would you call a person nice, if they broke their leg—all to bits?”

“Did he do that?”

“Yes. Anna Maria did think it was tiresome of him.”

“Oh!”

“Yes. She went to see them, and there he was, lying in bed, and
screaming like twenty parrots, and like forty hundred mynas. I have got
a myna; mamma says they are like the English starlings.”

“Have you? But Uncle Henry Albert—how distressing!”

“Yes. Wasn’t it? He screamed and screamed, and Aunt Henry Albert cried,
and cried, and he got so dreadfully wet with her crying that he got
immonia!”

“Immonia? Goodness!”

“Yes, like Mooniah’s little boy got, and he died, and I expect Uncle
Henry Albert will die if it is immonia.”

Perhaps it was just as well that tea should make its appearance at this
harrowing juncture. Even mourners must eat.

Megsie Lizzie sprang up with great alacrity.

“I’m to pour out! I’m to pour out! You _said_ I was to pour out,” she
cried, discarding Mrs. Brown Jones and the conventions. “Put the table
here, Ali Bux. I am a burra Miss Sahib to-day. Put it in front of me.
Helen lady, do you take three pieces of sugar? I do. May Ali Bux put the
cakes close beside me?—because then I needn’t get up. I don’t think it
is proper to get up when you are pouring out the tea. Asides, I might
knock something down. The dhobi has put such an astravagan’ lot of
starch in this dress.” The teapot wobbled alarmingly as she spoke, and
Helen drew a breath of relief as it was set down again.

“Here. This is your tea, but you didn’t say about the sugar.”

“I was waiting for a chance,” said Helen gravely. “And I am so very
sweet myself that I think one piece will be enough. If I got too sweet,
I don’t know what might happen. The bees might want to make me into
honey, and I shouldn’t like that at all.”

“Oh!”

Megsie Lizzie made round eyes of wonder. Then she helped herself to a
flat round cake, and changed the subject.

“Perhaps Gideon’s cake was like this,” she observed, and Helen answered
idly:

“No, I expect it was more like a chupatti.”

“A chupatti wouldn’t roll,” said Megsie Lizzie, severely practical. “I
shall ask Ram Chand.”

“And who is Ram Chand?”

“He is our bearer. I don’t like him much. He is a rude man. But he knows
all about chupattis.”

Helen’s curiosity was faintly stirred. Like every one else she had heard
some idle gossip about the mysterious passing from hand to hand of the
flat unleavened cakes which take the place of bread all over Upper
India.

“What do you mean?” she asked.

Megsie Lizzie put her head on one side and considered.

“Mooniah, and Anna Maria, and I were in the garden, under the big peepul
tree, and Mooniah was asleep, and Ram Chand was on the other side of my
mamma’s rose hedge, and he was talking to his brother, who is in Captain
Blake’s regiment, and he said, ‘The chupattis have gone everywhere now,
and the word has gone with them.’ Then he said, ‘Sub lal
hojaega’—everything will be red. And his brother said, ‘And our hands
too’; and then they went away. So you see he knows all about chupattis.
I shall ask him.”

Helen felt a little crisping of the short hair at the nape of her neck.
She was not consciously aware of matter for alarm. It was all part of
some foolish superstition, some sacrifice perhaps. The word passed
through her mind and left, as it were, a little seed of dread behind it.
Sacrifice—sacrifice. The confused memories of her childhood gave up one
sudden, definite picture. She saw Aunt Lucy’s room, and the big
illustrated Bible lying open on Aunt Lucy’s knee. Quite clearly she
heard Aunt Lucy’s voice saying, “No, my dears, we will pass over that
picture”; and it was a picture of the slaughter of Amalek. Helen had
stolen down in the night and looked at it, holding the big book close to
the window in the moonlight. It was a dreadful picture, and there were
dreadful words written under it, words which made her child’s soul
shudder for years afterwards.

“Thou shalt slay man and woman, infant and suckling.”

For a moment the page seemed to be before her eyes. Then it was gone,
and Helen heard herself saying:

“I don’t think I should ask Ram Chand.”

“Well, I won’t,” said Megsie Lizzie graciously. “Not if you say not.”
And just then Richard Morton rode up in a cloud of dust, and seeing the
tea-table, made for it, and demanded a large cup, and much tea.

“I thought gentlemen drank pegs,” said Megsie Lizzie.

“Does that mean that you and Helen want all the tea for yourselves?”
inquired Captain Morton.

Megsie Lizzie was much shocked.

“We are not so _rude_,” she declared. “We have got proper nice manners.
It isn’t at all proper nice manners to snatch, and to say, ‘I want it
_all_ for myself.’ Jackie Hill does that. I don’t.”

Richard’s eyes looked very blue.

“I don’t know that I can behave well enough for this tea-party,” he
said, as Megsie Lizzie handed him his cup with her grandest air.

Next minute she was back again with cake, apparently forgetting the
impropriety of getting up. Having performed the duties of her sex by
ministering to man’s hunger, she now proceeded to gaze upon him with an
admiration too open to be overlooked.

“I am afraid it is my manners that want mending,” said Helen. “I never
introduced you. How dreadful of me! Mrs. Brown Jones, let me
present——”

“No,” said Megsie Lizzie with decision. She edged nearer to the object
of her admiration.

“No, I’ve finished being Mrs. Brown Jones. Now I’m Megsie Lizzie again,
and I know quite well who he is, because I’ve seen him riding by our
house every day for two weeks.”

“Well, and who am I?”

“You are Captain Morton.”

Megsie Lizzie sighed.

“It’s a very polite name.”

“Is it? Would you rather call me Richard?”

“That’s very polite too.”

“My friends call me Dick. Is that rude enough, or do you wish to proceed
to actual abuse?”

Megsie Lizzie’s eyes grew rounder.

“Dick will do,” she said. “Captain Dick. It sounds lovely, it isn’t at
all polite. Captain Dick and Helen lady. These are two quite nice
names”; and she turned a smile of royal condescension upon Miss Wilmot,
who felt absurdly gratified.

It was whilst she was smiling at Helen that Captain Morton took a base
advantage of a lady’s back being turned. With a strong brown hand on
either side of her waist, he tossed Megsie Lizzie into the air. She
shrieked with joy, and came down on his knee, screaming, “Do it again,
do it again! Go on doing it!”

“It is too hot,” groaned Richard, after complying with the lady’s
request once or twice.

“No, it isn’t; it really isn’t. Not for me. Do it, do it, Captain Dick.”

“Megsie Lizzie, would you like me to turn all purple, and cockle up, and
be a crumpled heap, and melt, and nothing be left of me at last but a
pile of clothes, and a moist, moist pool?”

“Can you? Is that what would happen?”

Megsie Lizzie’s eyes were like saucers.

“Dick!” protested Helen.

“Most probably,” sighed Captain Morton, mopping his brow.

“Oh, then _do_!” and Megsie Lizzie clasped beseeching hands whilst
Richard and Helen broke into unmannerly laughter.

“Cruel person! And I’ve had such a day already. Don’t you think it would
do if I melted some other time, when I am not quite so busy?”

Megsie Lizzie gave the question some earnest thought.

“You are very busy?”

“Yes, dreadfully.”

“Oh!”

A pause, during which Helen opened her workbag, and took out a strip of
embroidery.

Then Megsie Lizzie delivered her ultimatum.

“Very well. You may tell me a story instead.”

“Good Lord, I don’t know any!”

“About a little boy and a girl. You haven’t got any little girl, have
you?”

“No.”

“Nor any little boy?”

“No,” said Richard Morton.

A little mist came between Helen and her work. Through the mist she saw
her needle tremble. Something in Dick’s voice hurt her dreadfully, she
did not feel as if she could bear to look up and see him with the child
on his knees. She wondered if Adela felt so. Perhaps that was why she
had spoken so sharply of the child. Oh, poor Adela!

Helen’s foolish, soft heart was stirred with compunction, but the next
moment Helen’s clear brain told her truly enough that Adela had never
been fond of children, and had made scarcely a pretence of regretting
her baby’s death.

Helen’s affection for her cousin had ceased to be the old blind, adoring
love. It was more maternal now. Adela’s faults were clear—her weakness
manifest. And Helen gave of her strength, and gave, and kept on giving.
The time when she expected any return was quite gone by.

These thoughts passed in her like a flash, and as she bent her head she
heard Megsie Lizzie say calmly:

“I thought you hadn’t any little boy or girl. When I am grown up, I am
going to have eighteen children and six of them will be boys, and seven
of them will be girls, and three of them will be grown-ups, so as to
help look after the others.”

“Very thoughtful arrangement,” murmured Richard.

“Yes—and I must have plenty of stories to tell them. So now, please,
will you tell me about when you was a little boy?”

“You are a very dexterous person, Madam.”

“What is dexerous?”

“It means right-handed,” said Richard, with the utmost gravity.

Megsie Lizzie looked at both her hands. They might have been cleaner.

“Oh!” she said, in her solemn way. “And now will you please tell me
about when you was a little boy.”

“No escape!” groaned Captain Morton; he looked at Helen, and she smiled
and shook her head.

In spite of quickly lowered lids he had caught the dazzle of tears in
her eyes when Megsie Lizzie had asked the question a few minutes before.
An instant’s resentment had given place to a strange feeling of sympathy
and companionship, oddly coupled with a quick memory of having seen
Adela push away a child who was trying to climb on her lap. That was
when they were just married. He had felt a little chill then. He felt it
again now. He made haste to speak.

“It is such a long time since I was a little boy that I have forgotten
all about it.”

“Is it a hundred years?” asked Megsie Lizzie with interest.

“No, not quite.”

“Then I ’spect you could amember it if you tried; I don’t forget things
even if they happened a hundred and fifty years ago.”

“What can you remember that happened a hundred and fifty years ago? That
would be much more interesting than my story.”

“Lots of things,” said Megsie Lizzie shortly. “Heaps and heaps, and
heaps, an’ jungles, an’ tigers, an’ snakes, an’ hippomuses—an’ now will
you please tell me about when you was a little boy?”

Richard capitulated.

“When I was a little boy, I lived in a tent with my father and mother.”

“Really?”

“Yes, really. I thought it great fun. And my father used to go out and
shoot leopards, and all sorts of wild beasts.”

“Hippomuses?”

“No—not—er—hippomuses.”

Megsie Lizzie looked suspicious and he went on hastily:

“One day my father was out for a ride in the morning, and a man ran out
of a village and said that a leopard had clawed his little boy, and was
lying up in some long grass not far away.”

“Was the little boy all clawed up dead?”

Captain Morton threw a despairing glance at Helen, who did not quite see
how she could assist him.

“Er—yes, I am afraid he was. But my father didn’t know that, and if he
had, it wouldn’t have made any difference, so he rode into the long
grass with nothing in his hand but a hog-spear, which he always took
with him when he went out riding.”

“Why did he take it?”

“To prick the pariah dogs with when they got in his way.”

“Oh!” said Megsie Lizzie, “it’s very inresting. What did your father
do?”

“He always rode very fast. The natives called him the Lightning Sahib,
and he rode right into the leopard, and speared it, and the spear broke
off short in the leopard’s chest, and my father’s horse reared up, and
fell over backwards with him.”

“Was he killed dead?”

“No, not that time, but he didn’t know what was happening until he
opened his eyes and found the leopard lying dead, and the village
shikari talking very fast to the man whose son had been clawed, and
three or four women crying very loud indeed, and he sat up and said——”

“What did he say?”

“Er—I don’t exactly know. I wasn’t there, you see, but I rather fancy
he was very angry with the shikari, because he had spoiled the leopard’s
skin.”

“Then what happened?”

“Well, he got up and he rode home, and slipped in by the back door.”

“Of a tent?”

Megsie Lizzie was down on him in a flash.

“No, this was when we were living in a house. We did have a house. Well,
he slipped in by the back door, and he put on another coat—a dark
coat.”

“Why?”

“Because the leopard had clawed his arm before the shikari shot it. And
he went in and sat down to breakfast with my mother.”

“And with you?”

“Yes. And now comes the part that I can remember for myself. My mother
poured out the tea, and said how late he was, and helped him to a chop,
and he took the plate, and said it was a very hot day, and then all of a
sudden, down he went on to the floor, like a ninepin, when you knock it
over. And when my poor mother got round to him, she was frightened to
death, for his coat was all wet, and when she touched it, it came off
red on her fingers, and she very nearly fainted herself.”

“And what did you do?”

“I ran and called the servants, and they took off my father’s coat, and
found the sleeve of it all full of blood, and his arm and shoulder all
clawed.”

“And was he _melting_?” asked Megsie Lizzie in tones of passionate
interest.

Helen’s head went down, almost into her lap, only this time it was to
hide a laugh.

Richard Morton made no struggle, he roared, and Megsie Lizzie looked
much shocked.

“I shouldn’t laugh if my papa was clawed. Nor if he was melting. I
shouldn’t,” she observed; and Helen, at least, felt rebuked. There was
an impressive pause. Then Megsie Lizzie asked:

“Is that all?”

“Nearly all. My father was very angry indeed, and he wouldn’t go to bed,
but he had to let the doctor tie up his arm. The doctor said all sorts
of dreadful things would happen, but they didn’t. The arm healed up all
right.”

“And then you all lived happily ever afterwards,” said Megsie Lizzie, in
the perfunctory tone of one who makes an accustomed response.

She slipped off Captain Morton’s knee, put on her hat, and jumped down
from the highest part of the verandah, just at the corner.

“And now I will get you a buttonhole,” she announced, and disappeared
from view in a little cloud of dust.

Richard looked after her with a grim smile.

“No, there wasn’t much ‘happy ever afterwards’ about it,” he said. “The
poor old governor was killed out pig sticking a year later, and my
mother, whom he had spoiled, and adored, and treated like a queen, had
to go home, and live on the charity of relations, who never ceased
girding at her because she was left so badly provided for. No,” as Helen
looked up in surprise, “there was no pension. My father left the Army as
an ensign. He never could keep out of debt. He was a regular free-lance,
you know. The natives adored him, and the old King of Oude swore by him,
and I suppose he made a lot of money one way and another, but he never
could keep a penny of it—he couldn’t say no to a friend, and in the end
it was my mother who paid.”

Helen looked up, her face very soft.

“I never heard you speak of her before. Did she die long ago, Dick?”

“Ten years. She made a very unhappy second marriage. A wretched
business. We are an unlucky lot.”

Captain Morton pulled himself up. His eyes were sombre. There was a
moment’s silence. Then with an abrupt change of tone he asked:

“Where is Adela?”

Helen looked fixedly at her embroidery. The light had begun to fail, and
the fine work required attention.

“She has gone out riding,” she said in cheerful commonplace tones.

Richard’s brow darkened.

“Riding? She hasn’t anything to ride. I’ve been so busy, but I saw a
little mare to-day that might do. With whom is she riding?”

“With Mr. Purslake.”

“Purslake? Is she riding one of his horses?”

“I believe so.”

Richard lay back in his chair, and put up one hand to cover his mouth
and chin.

“Purslake is not a man I care for,” he said in a studiously quiet tone.
“Also, he is a very new acquaintance, and I don’t care about Adela being
under any obligation. Do you think, Helen, that you could give her a
hint that I would rather she didn’t make a friend of Purslake?”

Helen hesitated. She guessed the effort with which Richard Morton spoke
to her of his wife. Her heart began to throb painfully, she was so much
afraid of saying the wrong thing—of making matters worse. That they
were bad enough already she was well aware. On her arrival in Peshawur
she had found a degree of estrangement which appalled her, and she had
begun by thinking Richard hard. In the months that passed since then she
had found it easier to comprehend his attitude. Her own relations with
Adela had undergone a change. There had been scenes and quarrels. Helen
hated quarrels, and was clever at avoiding them, but once and again
Adela had hurt her very deeply. Such hurts heal, but in healing they
harden too.

“I think Adela knew him before,” she said quickly, when the silence had
lasted so long that she felt she must say something. Captain Morton
offered no comment, but there was a sarcastic expression about his eyes
that increased Helen’s discomfort and made her say:

“I don’t care for him either. He is silly, but quite harmless, I should
say”; and she tried to laugh.

“He is a cad,” said Richard Morton shortly.

He rose, and walked to the edge of the verandah, just as Megsie Lizzie
appeared with a handful of drooping flowers, which she pressed upon him.

“An’ I must go,” she explained, “I must go at once, or I shall be late
for saying Good-night to my mamma, because she is going out to dinner,
and if she didn’t have time to hug me and God bless me first she would
cry all into her soup, and that wouldn’t be at all polite. Good-night,
Captain Dick. Good-night, Helen lady,” and she slipped away, humming a
queer little tuneless song.

“Isn’t she funny?” said Helen in tones of relief. When Richard did not
answer she went on more from a desire to turn the conversation than from
any other motive.

“Dick, she told me such an odd thing. You know all the talk there has
been about those chupattis, and how every one said they meant something
different?”

“Yes.”

Captain Morton was listening now.

“Dick, I noticed you didn’t talk, when every one else did. Was that
because you thought it all too silly—or—or——”

“A most expressive ‘or,’” said Richard Morton, with half a laugh.

The light had fallen so much now that Helen could not see his face, but
she had the feeling that his eyes were intent upon her.

“Well, that child said she heard their bearer talking to a brother of
his who is a Sepoy in the 114th, and he said the message had gone
everywhere.”

“The message?”

“Sub lal hojaega.”

Helen shivered ever so little as she spoke. There was quite a breeze
springing up, and the evening air struck chill, after the heat of the
day.

“What does it mean, Dick?”

Richard Morton did not move.

“Doesn’t your Hindustani take you as far as that, Helen?” he said
lightly. “It isn’t very abstruse, ‘Sub lal hojaega’—Everything will
become red.”

“Yes, I know. I didn’t mean that. Why did Ram Chand say that everything
would become red, and why did his brother answer: ‘And our hands too?’”

There was a pause.

Then Captain Morton moved a little, and said in his usual voice:

“My dear girl, one can never fathom these native superstitions.”

Helen got up.

“Dick, did you ever know a woman who wasn’t inquisitive?”

“My dear girl, never.”

“Well?”

Helen was standing beside him on the edge of the verandah, her chin
lifted, and her brows arched, but Richard looked past her at the sunset.
The sun was gone, and a line of dark ferash trees stood out as black as
cypresses against the western sky. Behind their gloomy foliage shone a
belt of clear blood-red. It glowed, and changed, passing from rose to
scarlet, and from scarlet to a hot and dusky orange. With every change
of colour the trees darkened, the light failed, and the breeze
increased.

“Well, Dick?”

“Well, Helen.”

Helen came a step nearer. She spoke in a hesitating manner. “Dick, I’m
not a child.”

“You are not. You are positively elderly. Only don’t harp on the fact,
because I am ten years older than you are, you know.”

Helen turned with a swish of her full skirts, gathered up her work, and
swept to the door.

“Lift the chick for me, Dick, will you,” she said in her usual voice,
and as she passed into the lighted room she turned her head rather
suddenly and looked Richard Morton full in the face. As soon as she
looked at him, he smiled, but she had seen his eyes first. They were
very grave, and there was a deep vertical line between them. Helen
looked away again at once, and moved farther into the room. The
freshening breeze followed her, and stirred her dress. Outside, the
trees rustled.

“How the wind is rising,” she said.




                               CHAPTER X
                         THE RISING OF THE WIND


 We broke the power of the Kings, we took the sword away,
 And beat it into a ploughshare, for ever and a day.
 Mussulman and Mahratta, Sikh and wild Pathan,
 They should live together in peace, neighbourly man by man.
 No more raiding for loot, no more justice by favour;
 Life was a sorry affair, woefully lacking in savour.
 And the King of Oude, his captains, their sons and heirs, instead
 Must learn the English drill, and wear the English red.
 Sepoys, not captains they, their fathers’ greatness gone,
 What wonder if under the English red a pulse of hate beat on.

March went out, and India lay under the heat of April. Between the hazy
sky and the parched earth, no breath stirred save that impalpable breath
of approaching dread. Unheard, unfelt, the wind was rising, the wind
which the natives called the “Devil’s breath.” The air was full of the
dust of rumour, and the dust fell, silently, unheeded. No one knew where
the rumours came from. They were not, and then they were. They came as
the dust comes, and no one knew how.

A district, peaceful and contented one week, would be full of buzzing
talk the next. Was it true that the new water-mills which the Company
had set up were accursed things? Ai, brothers, who could tell? But why
should they grind so cheaply? Could that be answered? A cousin at Koti
had said that his uncle at Cawnpore had said that there was bone dust
mingled with the flour—dust of pigs’ bones! The man whose cousin’s
uncle lived in Cawnpore tore his hair, and wept, and praised all the
gods that _he_ had taken no grain to be ground in the Company’s mills.
Those who had done so, slunk away, or held their heads very high, and
praised their gods louder still. And the district seethed like water
that is going to boil.

In the lines the Sepoys talked. Always they sat, or stood in groups, and
talked volubly. When an officer passed they stopped talking. Here and
there one would look away. If he failed to salute his officer he had his
excuse. He had not seen him. What did they talk about? Perhaps, about
Mungul Pandy of the 34th who had cut down his adjutant and the
quarter-master-sergeant, in front of the quarter-guard at Barrackpore,
no man putting out a hand to stay him.

Perhaps they debated whether to call him mutineer—or martyr.

For Mungul Pandy was hanged, and his regiment saw it done. Afterwards
they put flowers on his grave—secretly, as for many years they had put
flowers and flags on the grave of an earlier mutineer. Then the regiment
was disbanded, and the men went all over India telling the story of
Mungul Pandy who had died rather than break his caste by biting the
accursed cartridge.

There was a great deal to talk about in the year 1857 and the month of
April.

There was the court-martial upon two Sepoys who made treasonable
overtures to the native officer on duty at the Mint, in Calcutta. There
was the disbanding of the 19th regiment at Berhampore for mutinous
conduct on parade.

They were to go to their homes. Such was the clement sentence of the
Government. And they too went all over India, and there was more talk,
and more, and more, and at the beginning, and in the end, the over-word
was still the same—the cartridge.

The Queen of England had said to Lord Gough that all the native soldiers
in India must become Christians. Was that true? Undoubtedly it was true.
Here was a holy fakir who could tell them the whole tale, ai, brothers,
hear the tale then! What did Lord Gough say? He said it would take time,
but it should be done. Then the Queen was very angry, and said, “Let it
be done at once. Let it be done without fail.”

For this reason the cartridges were devised. They were sent out greased
with the fat of cows and with the fat of swine. If a Hindoo touched
them, his caste was gone. If a Mussulman touched them, he had touched
the accursed thing forbidden by Allah, and by the prophet of Allah.

Would it not be better to serve the King of Oude, and have the
plundering of the zemindars again? Would it not be better to serve the
Emperor of Delhi and draw the magnificent pay of ten rupees a day? Would
he give ten rupees a day? Undoubtedly. Here was one who had just come
from Delhi, and there it was the common gossip of the bazaars.

So the talk went, and April passed.

Richard Morton spent the greater part of the month in camp, learning his
district by heart, establishing friendly relations with the zemindars,
cultivating the acquaintance of the local Rajah, and absorbing
information generally.

He returned to Urzeepore with his mind a good deal lightened. Some
discontent there undoubtedly was, but the greater part of the district
appeared to be peaceful, or at least indifferent. The crops promised
well. It would be a good season, and any distrust of the Government’s
motives would pass with time, and their experience of an equitable rule.

He found his cousin Floss Monteith on her way through Urzeepore with her
silent husband and her small son of six. They were bound for Simla,
where Colonel Monteith was going to settle them, returning himself to
Mian Mir, where he had just been given an appointment on the Staff.

“Floss, will you take Adela and Helen up with you?” said Captain Morton,
an hour after he rode in from camp.

Mrs. Monteith made a face behind his back, and then hastened to say all
that was hospitable and cousinly.

But Adela refused to go.

“Isn’t it just _like_ Richard?” she said angrily to Helen. “He sees I am
enjoying myself, and of course he wants to send me away.”

“But the heat, Adie——”

“I am not feeling it at all. This is a very cool house. I am very well,
and you know I _did_ feel the height last year in Murree. The doctor
said I was not at all strong. Of course, if Richard wants to kill
me—and I simply can’t _bear_ Mrs. Monteith. I call her a very frivolous
person.”

The feeling was mutual.

“I like you. I like you immensely,” Mrs. Monteith told Helen. “I can’t
think why Dick didn’t marry you. You would have suited him ever so much
better than that Adela creature. Mercy! what have I said? My dear, I beg
your pardon, I really did forget she was your cousin. Now don’t be vexed
with me. I’m dreadful, you know. I always say just what comes into my
head. Fortunately my John has _very_ strong nerves.”

The Monteiths went off the same evening, and with them went Megsie
Lizzie, who had begun to droop with the heat.

Floss Monteith had discovered an old school-fellow in Mrs. Monson, and
her son Jack conceived a silent adoration for Megsie Lizzie. The
children’s despair at the thought of being parted led to an impulsive
offer from Mrs. Monteith, which, after a few hours’ hesitation, was
accepted.

“An’ Miss Anna Maria Matilda Jenkins Sweet Pea will love to write you
ever so long letters,” said Megsie Lizzie, leaning out of the window of
the dakgharri, waving brightly to her mother, who stood by her husband’s
side, very pale, and with hands that clasped each other very tightly.

Next day there was bad news from Lucknow. A despatch spoke of mutinous
conduct on the part of the 7th Irregulars. They had refused the
cartridge, threatened to murder their officers, and had been with
difficulty coerced into a condition of sullen submission.

Richard Morton interviewed Captain Monson, of the 11th Irregulars, and
inquired into the disposition of his men. Later he saw and talked with
Colonel Crowther of the 114th, Captain Elliot of the Native Police, and
Captain Lamington, who commanded the detachment of Native Cavalry. His
face was tolerably grave as he wrote his official despatch.

Captain Blake looked in about sunset, and they talked for an hour or
more.

“I don’t know what they’ll do,” said George Blake. “That’s the truth,
Dick.”

“Have you begun ball-cartridge practice?”

“A fortnight ago.”

“H’m! Any trouble?”

“No. I thought they would jib, but they didn’t. Come to think of it,
they hadn’t the ghost of an excuse, for the cartridges are some of the
old lot. Our own make.”

“But you are not satisfied?”

“No. It’s an odd thing to say, Dick, but I believe I’d rather they had
made a fuss. They’re too damned quiet. I don’t like it——”

“Anything else you don’t like?”

“Well, I don’t know that I care about the sort of carelessness that
results in getting ball cartridge mixed up with blank.”

“That been happening?”

“Yes. Pure mistake, of course.”

“Oh, of course.”

There was a pause, and then Captain Morton said:

“Have you ever realised that there are only two British regiments in the
whole of Oude? They’d spread out pretty thin, if we had to spread ’em
out, George.”

“That is so.”

“Please God, we sha’n’t have to spread them out.”

And George Blake said “Amen.”

After a moment he spoke again.

“Some one told me Mrs. Morton and Miss Wilmot were going to Simla with
the Monteiths.”

“I wanted them to. My wife wouldn’t go.”

Richard paused, then he added:

“George, I wish to Heaven we had had this despatch yesterday. It’s too
late now. There’s no escort. I can’t get away. It’s no good thinking of
it.”

That evening Adela grumbled at the heat.

“After all, I wish we had gone to Simla,” she said, and Richard Morton
lost his temper, and lost it badly. He echoed his wife’s wish in
language which she characterised as profane. Then he went back to his
office, and worked till midnight, and Helen Wilmot listened to Adela’s
strictures with a curiously blank expression.

A week later came the news of the Meerut Mutiny. The mine had been years
a-digging, the fuse had been months in the laying, but now the spark was
set, and the wind fanned it, and fanned it still. Men began to catch
their breath, and brace themselves against some vast upheaval. They
watched the travelling spark, and set their teeth.

Delhi fell.

“Delhi is far,” quoted Captain Morton cheerfully. Again he held
conference with the commanding officers.

“The Mohammedans won’t move till their fast is over,” he said. “And the
Eed falls on the 20th. I think we should be prepared for trouble then.
Fasting all day, and gorging at night, isn’t too good for the temper,
and when it is over——”

He broke off abruptly.

“Colonel Crowther, how many Sikhs have you in your regiment now?”

Colonel Crowther’s wizened little face contracted.

“About fifty, I believe, and from what I hear, Captain Morton, I have
grave reason to fear that they are a drunken and dissolute body of men.
Drunkenness is a terrible thing, a very terrible thing. A man who is
found drunk should be cashiered. It is an outrage, a simple outrage that
a Christian Government should order us to enlist men who are well known
to be intemperate in their habits!”

“You might convert them, Colonel,” suggested young Lamington with a
perfectly guileless expression.

Richard Morton put his hand up to his chin.

“Fifty,” he said. “I remember you never liked the Sikhs, sir. You
thought that they might have a deteriorating influence.”

“And I maintain it now—the spectacle of open drunkenness——”

“Very shocking”—Captain Morton was extremely grave—“very shocking
indeed. I would suggest, sir, that it would be possible to minimise the
effect by drafting all the men into one Company; a strict watch could
then be kept over their morals.”

Colonel Crowther appeared to be struck by this idea, and Richard
enlarged upon it later on to Captain Blake.

“Keep him up to it, George. Harp on the temperance string. If the old
man had obeyed orders, and enlisted his full 200 Sikhs, they might be
worth their weight in gold to us at present. But fifty staunch men, if
we can only get ’em together——”

George Blake looked vaguely into the dark corners of the room.

“A Sikh came to me last night,” he said. “His father was an officer of
Runjeet Singh’s, and he is a fine lad. He said, ‘Sahib, there is much
bad talk. Make us Sikhs into a Company, and make me Jemadar, and we will
show these budzats that the Sikhs can fight.’ How did you know that,
Dick? I’ll swear you weren’t behind the door.”

“No, I wasn’t behind the door, and I didn’t know it. By Heaven, George,
I’d like to make the Sikh Company.”

“So should I. So would not old Crowther.”

“Do what you can, George; get the Sikhs together, and let occasion make
the Jemadar. What is your friend’s name?”

“Hira Singh.”

“We are in a pretty bad position, you know,” said Richard Morton after a
moment. “Even Monson admits that the Irregulars are not to be depended
upon. That was why he jumped at the chance of getting his child away.
Lamington won’t hear a word against the Cavalry, but is doubtful of the
Police; Elliot believes in the Police, but thinks that the Cavalry are
very shaky. Personally, I think he is right. Cavalry are always the
first to give trouble. They are head over ears in debt to the bunniahs,
and stand to gain by change and lawlessness. I think Elliot’s Police
might stand, but, George—I feel doubtful, very doubtful about the old
regiment.”

“So do I,” said George Blake.

The words were bitter in his mouth.

“If you had stayed on, Dick.”

“Don’t be a fool,” said Richard Morton roughly.

“All right. I say, Dick, the bazaar chowdri reports this morning that
the men won’t take their rations of flour.”

“Why?”

“You’ve been mixing bone dust with it, it appears, Richard.”

“Necessity is the mother of invention. It looks as if they were hard put
to it for a pretext—or as if there were faint hearts among them. Things
are pretty rotten when one has to put one’s trust in the faint-hearted.”
He spoke slowly. “I wonder whether Mr. Fatehshah Khan isn’t one of the
faint-hearted. He has been having a good many letters from Cawnpore
lately. They kept cropping up in the official mail. I remarked on it.
They stopped. I don’t feel sure about Fatehshah Khan—Extra Assistant
Commissioner though he is.”

At the Club the ladies talked. Mrs. Crowther, of course, had her word to
say about the manner in which things were being managed, or mismanaged.

“Really Captain Morton seemed to think he had nothing to do but enjoy
himself in camp,” she remarked. “I should say he would be better
employed in looking after his wife. If ever I saw a young woman who
required it more—well, _montrez me la_—that is all. And after idling
in a tent for a month, he comes back and makes the most outrageous
insinuations with regard to his old regiment, and makes them to its
Colonel. I had hard work to restrain the Colonel—hard work, I assure
you.”

She spoke to meek Mrs. Marsh, and to Miss Darcy, the doctor’s elderly
sister.

“Oh, Mrs. Crowther!” breathed the former.

“And what did he say?” asked Miss Darcy in her sensible voice.

The secrets of the Council chamber were evidently no secrets from
Colonel Crowther’s better half.

“He asked—he actually dared to ask—if Colonel Crowther had full
confidence in his men.”

Miss Darcy had no tact. “And has he?” she inquired bluntly.

Mrs. Marsh’s exclamation this time was, “Oh, Miss Darcy!”

“He has. We both have. The most perfect confidence.”

“Such a comfort,” said Mrs. Marsh, “and my husband has too.”

She raised her head a little, displaying a shade of very modest pride.

Mrs. Elliot came languidly out of the library. She and Helen Wilmot had
been choosing books together. She stood a moment by Mrs. Marsh’s chair,
and inquired:

“What has your husband got? Not fever, I hope?”

Her clear voice always seemed to have a tinge of mockery in it.

Mrs. Marsh bridled perceptibly.

“My husband has confidence in his men,” she repeated.

“Reciprocal, I hope.”

Mrs. Elliot threw a sideways glance at Miss Wilmot, but Helen looked
away. She did not consider Mrs. Marsh fair game.

“Oh, yes,” murmured that poor lady, and Mrs. Crowther took up her
parable again.

“My husband says that the rumours from Delhi and Meerut are probably
grossly exaggerated.”

Mrs. Elliot sank into a chair and fanned herself.

“Of course, if Colonel Crowther says so,” she murmured.

“Of course. If half a dozen women and children were killed, it is the
outside of what happened. It is absurd to talk of massacre. Most
exaggerated.”

“H’m!” observed Miss Darcy. “When I am killed I shall expect it to be
called a massacre, even if I am the only one.”

“A mere half-dozen casualties,” said Mrs. Crowther, with a spark in her
light eyes, “a mere half-dozen, scarcely merits that designation. I
entirely discredit the extremely unlikely reports that are being
circulated. I do not believe there was torture. I decline to admit the
probability of mutilation.”

“Oh, Mrs. Crowther!” said pale Mrs. Marsh.

Confidence, or no confidence, her nightly dreams were full of horrors,
and her thoughts flew to the two limp, unattractive children, whom Mrs.
Elliot had first dubbed the “Marsh Mallows.”

“Some of the tales are pretty circumstantial,” said Miss Darcy. “Now,
that one of the sergeant’s wife at Meerut——”

Miss Darcy had stout nerves. She told the story in a brisk and
matter-of-fact way.

After a moment Helen Wilmot got up and walked away. At the farther end
of the long Club verandah she found Mrs. Monson sitting by herself, and
dropped into a chair beside her.

“What is it, my dear?” asked Lizzie Monson.

“Those women. They are enough to make one swear—yes, they are. There
they sit, all pretending not to be frightened, and telling one another
the most perfectly horrible tales—too horrible to be repeated.”

“I wonder if they are too horrible to be true,” said Lizzie Monson.

There was a gentle distance in her look, and her voice had an absent
tone. Then without any warning she put her head down on her knees, and
began to sob, very quietly, but in a tired-out hopeless way.

“I have pretended too,” she said very low. “Oh, Helen, it’s all we can
do for the men—pretend, pretend, so that they sha’n’t know that we
know; but I can’t go on, I can’t go on. She’s so far away, my little
Meg, and I can’t go to her, and I couldn’t leave James.”

Helen squeezed the poor mother’s shaking hand in both of hers.

“Oh, she must be safe—she will be safe,” she said. “God won’t let her
be hurt—not Megsie Lizzie. She is so dear”; and the two women kissed,
and leaned together.

The sound of a tinkling instrument startled them. Helen went to the
corner of the verandah and looked round it. What she saw did not please
her very much.

Adela, in her long grey riding-dress and broad grey hat, was sitting in
a cane chair, with young Jelland fanning her. Her cheeks were flushed,
and her chestnut curls hung down over the white collar of her habit.

At her feet sat Mr. Purslake, pulling at the strings of a banjo. He had
been home the year before and had caught the prevailing American craze.
He twanged out a catchy tune, and sang:

                 “In South Car’lina de darkies go—
                  Sing song Kitty can’t you ki me oh!
                  Dat’s whar de white folk plant de tow,
                  Sing song Kitty can’t you ki me oh!”

Adela’s soft laugh rang out, and she shook back her curls, and looked
over Mr. Jelland’s shoulder to where Carrie Crowther sat at a little
distance, with her large china blue eyes fixed upon the group.

“Now the chorus, Mr. Purslake,” she said, and Mr. Purslake wagged his
head, and sang:

           “Keemo, kimo, dar oh whar,
            Wid my hi, my ho, an’ in come Sally singing,
            Some time pennywinkle, ling turn nip cat,
            Sing song Kitty can’t you ki me oh!”

Helen came forward, and Adela turned to her.

“Mr. Purslake is so amusing to-day,” she said. “Oh, and, Helen, what do
you think Mr. Jelland has been telling me? You remember Frank Manners?
Well, I always did say he was odd, and so did poor mamma.”

“Did you?” said Miss Wilmot rather coldly.

“You know I did, and it shows how right I was. Why, he has become quite
a native, Mr. Jelland says. And he takes opium dreadfully. Mr. Jelland
says he will kill himself if he goes on. They call him the Rao Sahib
now, just fancy, and he lives with his uncle at Cawnpore—no, that place
near it—but he won’t be friends with any of the English, though the
Nana Sahib is. He pretends to hate English people, and if that isn’t
odd!”

Young Jelland coloured a little. He was rather afraid of Miss Wilmot.

Mr. Purslake twanged the strings of his banjo again.

               “Sing song Kitty can’t you ki me oh!”

he sang.




                               CHAPTER XI
                            HOW MAY WENT OUT


             The wind of the East came out of the East
               And brought a bane,
             It blew a madness into the blood,
               And a madness into the brain.

             It blew a curse between race and race,
               Between man and man.
             The wind of the East came out of the East
               And blew upon Hindustan.

May drew to a close.

In Lucknow, Sir Henry Lawrence, the Chief Commissioner of Oude, was
fortifying the Muchee Bhowan, and laying in stores.

In Cawnpore, Sir Hugh Wheeler had finished his fatal entrenchment, and
the women and children were ordered into it.

In all the smaller stations, commissioners and deputy commissioners
followed these two examples to the best of their ability.

Christian at Seetapore collected all the non-combatants into his own
house; others did what they thought best.

Richard Morton wrote to headquarters that in event of trouble he had
arranged with Maun Singh, the local Rajah, to receive the ladies and
children into his fort.

“I have thought it wisest,” he added, “to base this request upon my
apprehensions of a riot during the festivities connected with the Eed.
We want all our prestige at present.”

Contrary to expectation, however, the Mohammedan festival of the Eed
passed off quietly on May 20th.

Once again Richard Morton agreed with Captain Blake that things were too
quiet. There was, for instance, no friction between Hindus and
Mohammedans, such as is apt to arise on a day of festival.

Captain Morton would have been decidedly better pleased if there had
been a moderate riot—a few Hindu heads cracked by Mohammedan sticks, a
few Mohammedan turbans knocked off by angry Hindus.

But now all was peace. Even the local bone of contention, a Hindu temple
said to have been built over the tomb of a Moslem saint, evoked on this
occasion no angry recriminations, no controversy of rival religions. All
was peace. It is very quiet when men are holding their breath.

May went out and June came in. On the morning of the second of June,
Fatehshah Khan, Extra Assistant Commissioner, rode out very early. He
was by way of copying English manners. Captain Morton rode out early.
Mr. Jelland rode out early. Fatehshah Khan therefore did the same.

He rode alone, having dispensed with the attendance of his sais, and
presently leaving the dusty, grass-bordered Mall, he came out upon the
Cawnpore road.

Early though it was, the road was full enough. Those who journey through
Oude in June make what speed they may before the sun is high.

Grass cutters were coming in, with bundles of parched-looking grass upon
their heads. A bullock cart lumbered slowly along, raising clouds of the
choking dust, or an ekka jingled briskly past, drawn by a dried-up pony,
whose projecting bones and sore flanks were scarcely atoned for by an
elaborate adornment of blue and white beads.

The mails went by at a gallop, leaving a dense cloud behind. Fatehshah
Khan covered his mouth with his hand, and rode through the cloud. Beyond
it, under a big tamarisk tree, a blind man with horrible white eyeballs
sat swaying to and fro. He wore dirty white clothes, and his beard was
dyed a flaming red with henna. As he rocked, he sang in a high and nasal
voice that quavered from one false note to another.

“Who goes to Salon?” he chanted, beating the dusty ground with the palms
of his hands.

“Who goes to Karra or Hilsa?

“Who goes to Bihar or Bukhara?

“Pir Mohammed is in Salon.

“Shaikh Karrak is in Karra.

“And at Hilsa is the tomb of Jaman Shah Madari!

“Who cares for Muner or Ajmere,

“When a greater saint is here?

“For the Zinda Shah Madar—

“He is buried in Makanpore,

“A shining light, and a holy delight,

“And he whom the Maker will hold in favour,

“He comes to the shrine of Madar.”

Fatehshah Khan drew rein as he heard the first words of the blind man’s
song. He rode very slowly towards him, and when the final quaver had
died away, and the devotee, with a kind of inward groan, was drawing
breath for a fresh effort, he interposed.

“Ai Madari,” he said, “salaam”; and the blind man gave the greeting back
again.

“I too have been at Makanpore,” said Fatehshah Khan.

The blind man rocked in the dust.

“Who goes to Salon?” he began.

“Who goes to Karra or Hilsa?”

Fatehshah Khan stopped him.

“The road is empty, brother,” he said, and the madari ceased his song,
and spoke in a rapid, hissing whisper.

“Who comes to the shrine of Madar?”

“Brother, I have been there.”

“Brother, what did you seek?”

“I sought the living saint.”

“For him who sought the living saint, I have a message.”

Fatehshah Khan bent from his saddle.

“From whom is the message, Madari?” he asked.

The blind man rocked in the dust. As he rocked he spoke:

“The message is from Azimullah Khan. The message is from the Nana
Sahib’s vakil.”

“And what is the message, O Madari?”

“This is the message. Thus says Azimullah Khan, ‘When the house burns,
what does the wise man do?’”

Fatehshah Khan looked up and down the long white road. There was a
little cloud of dust very far away. He looked at it, and smoothed his
close black beard.

“Does the house burn?” he asked.

And the blind man answered, rocking still:

“It burns. On Sunday the burning began. Yesterday it continued.
To-morrow there will be much flame—much flame and the burning ash that
carries the flame abroad. What then does the wise man do?”

“He leaves the burning house,” said Fatehshah Khan, and he threw silver
into the blind man’s lap, and rode back along the way that he had come.

A little later, on that same morning, Captain Morton sat in his office,
writing.

What he wrote was his daily bulletin to headquarters, and he had nothing
very cheerful to say.

The air was very hot, and Richard had taken off his light coat, and
flung it down upon the matted floor.

At a second table Mr. Jelland was occupied over some papers, and in the
outer office sat Fatehshah Khan. He did not appear to be very busy, for
he sat and stared out of the window. Presently a chuprassi came in, and
stood salaaming.

Fatehshah Khan got up, spoke to the man, and then went into the inner
office, where he addressed the Deputy Commissioner in his stiff correct
English.

“Sir, there is a kossid from Rajah Maun Singh.”

“Who has come? His agent?”

“No, sir. A servant—a runner. He has brought a letter.”

Richard frowned. His pen travelled mechanically. He was expecting the
Rajah’s agent. A burden of defenceless lives weighed on him day and
night. The red and dreadful streets of Meerut rose in his dreams. The
tale of the Delhi murders rang in his ears. He had made up his mind to
place all the women and children under Maun Singh’s protection. The
obligations of Oriental hospitality are inviolable. With the women and
children safe, he could face and meet any development, however grave.

He took the Rajah’s letter, opened it, and pencil in hand, followed the
lines of flowery compliment with which it began.

Suddenly he looked up, his jaw rigid.

“Wait outside,” he said sharply to the chuprassi who had brought the
letter in. “Wait outside, and shut the door. Is all the heat to come
in?”

When the man had obeyed, Captain Morton looked down again at the flimsy
sheet of paper, with its strange twisted writing, and read it from
beginning to end.

When he had finished he looked up.

“Jelland,” he said.

“Yes, sir.”

“Rajah Maun Singh writes that a most unlucky accident has befallen him.
Part of the wall of his fort has fallen in. He will therefore be unable
to receive the ladies, as arranged.”

Richard Morton had addressed young Jelland, but he looked at his native
assistant, and it was Fatehshah Khan who answered him.

“Oh, sir, this is a great misfortune,” he observed, and Captain Morton’s
face hardened.

“Do you know what it means?”

“I, sir? Oh, certainly not, sir!”

“It is an excuse, of course. But why? There has been no fresh
development—or has there? Have you heard anything?”

“Sir, there are always rumours.”

“Ah—and what is the latest rumour, Fatehshah Khan?”

“I have no knowledge, sir. Rumours are beneath notice of the educated.
Only the common people believe them.”

“And Rajah Maun Singh,” said Richard sharply.

“Oh, sir!” Fatehshah Khan’s contempt for the Hindu landowner was
admirable.

“These Rajahs are very ignorant men—quite uncultivated. They have no
education. Every bazaar rumour is the truth to them. Maun Singh is quite
illiterate person, sir. That without doubt is why he says the wall of
his fort has fallen down.”

Fatehshah Khan went back to the outer office, and Captain Morton sat
very still for perhaps ten minutes. Then he finished his official
despatch and pushed it across the table.

“Send that off, Jelland. The man is waiting. Oh—and by the way, just
ask Fatehshah Khan to go over to Elliot’s house and see him about that
fire in the Police lines last night. I thought he would have been round,
but I suppose he is busy.”

Mr. Jelland mopped a pink, perspiring brow, and did his errands.

When he returned, Captain Morton inquired without raising his head:

“Fatehshah Khan gone?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Then just close the door into the outer office, Jelland.”

Mr. Jelland did so, and then sat down on the edge of the office table.

“I say, sir, this is bad,” he said in an uneasy undertone.

“It’s not good,” said Richard, still writing.

“What will you do now? Imagine Maun Singh playing us such a trick!”

“It is an accomplished fact, my dear boy. Imagination is not needed.”

“Now I wonder why he did it,” said young Jelland.

“I am afraid I know why.”

“What?”

Captain Morton looked up. His face was very set.

“I’ve had my bearer fifteen years. This morning he told me that there
was a bazaar rumour that the troops at Shahjehanpore had mutinied and
killed every soul in the place.”

“Good Lord! Do you think it’s true?”

“I think something has happened.”

“But when——”

“Sunday, they say, when every one was at church.”

“But it’s not possible that the news could have travelled so fast; it’s
a hundred miles as the crow flies.”

“Ill news travels apace. I’ve known it come faster than that.”

Mr. Jelland sank his voice to a whisper.

“D’you think Fatehshah Khan——”

Richard Morton gave a short laugh.

“Oh, yes. He knew. Can’t you see when a man’s lying, my dear boy?”

“Oh, Lord!” said young Jelland.

Richard laid down his pen.

“I’m afraid I sent him off on rather a flimsy pretext, but it was all I
could think of. I wanted to talk to you. Will you go round at once to
Colonel Crowther, Major Marsh, and all the other married men?—here’s
the full list—and say I think all women and children should remove to
my house. I propose putting on a guard composed half of Sikhs—the other
half to consist partly of Mohammedans and partly of low-caste Hindus—no
Brahmins. A Police picket in Monson’s compound. Then in case of a
mutinous outbreak on the part of the troops, the ladies can fall back
upon the ravine behind my house, and get across it into the jungle.
Should the worst come to the worst they could strike the road
three-quarters of a mile up, by the old bridge, and get away to
Cawnpore.”

“D’you think it is going to come to that, Morton?”

Young Jelland’s pink face was very much sobered.

“Let us hope not,” said Captain Morton at his curtest, and he returned
to his writing.

Mr. Jelland came back very hot indeed. He was also very angry.

“They won’t budge,” he declared.

He threw down his hat, and mopped himself.

“Lord, it is hot! They won’t move a yard. They’ve all got absolute
confidence in dear John’s, or dear Charles’s, or dear something or
other’s men, and wouldn’t show any distrust for the world. It might hurt
somebody’s tender feelings.”

“Good Lord, man, I didn’t tell you to see the women!”

“Well,”—Mr. Jelland got some shades pinker—“well, sir, I saw Colonel
Crowther, and he seemed to think he wouldn’t be able to remember to take
his liver tonic, if Mrs. Crowther weren’t there to give it to him, and
then Mrs. Crowther came in, and wanted to know if you were aiming a
deliberate insult at your old corps, and all the rest of it, so I came
away, and went and saw Major Marsh.”

“Well?”

“Very stuffy. Very huffy. All in his stiff polite way. Felt quite equal
to protecting his own wife in his own house, by the aid of his own men
in whom he had the completest, etc. You’d have thought I was asking the
lady to elope. Give you my word you would. I felt a dashed fool, so I
came away from there, and dropped in on the old Sergeant-Major, and he
said his wife had just had a baby. Yesterday, it appears. Nice, pretty
little thing she is too—Mrs. Jones, I mean, not the infant. I used to
dance with her at the Sergeants’ dances at Cawnpore. Little Lou Canning
she was, and why she married old Jones—well, anyhow, she can’t move,
and old Jones said in his most apoplectic manner, ‘The Colonel’s lady
would have my life, sir, if I let her go. She would indeed, sir.’”

Richard Morton drummed on the table.

“Fewer reminiscences if you don’t mind, Jelland. This is serious.”

“Yes, sir, I know. Well, the upshot is that Mrs. Elliot will come round
to-morrow, and perhaps Mrs. Hill too. Her husband has got
fever—badly—and she doesn’t know if he can move. Miss Darcy hummed and
hawed. She would and she wouldn’t, but I think she’d come if she didn’t
think her character for strong-mindedness would be imperilled. I didn’t
see Darcy. He was out.”

“And the Monsons?”

“Oh, yes, I saw him. He thought there was no need for his wife to move
as they were actually next door to you.”

“H’m! Well, you can go on with this report, Jelland, and I’ll go and see
Colonel Crowther myself. I want to arrange about that guard. Just send
this down to Elliot, will you. I want him to pick me out twenty-five of
his steadiest men.”

Captain Morton got his guard, but not without a struggle.

Colonel Crowther, backed up by a very angry and towering wife, made it
plain that he considered the request insulting, impolitic,
unnecessary—an encouragement of the vicious—and several other things.

Richard stood tall and silent in the middle of the room until he had
finished.

Then he said:

“Colonel Crowther, do you desire me to report to the Chief Commissioner
that you, as officer commanding the troops, decline to comply with my
official request for a guard?”

Mrs. Crowther glared.

“Official fiddlesticks!” she said, but her husband caught at her arm,
and she felt his hand shake.

“Hush, my dear, I beg you. Really, Captain Morton, I do not know why you
should take this intemperate tone. Of course in your official
capacity—as Deputy Commissioner—” He paused and put his hand to his
head.

“My dear Louisa, I am in very considerable pain. The heated tone of this
conversation! I think Captain Morton would do better to retire. Captain
Blake can arrange what he wishes. I really do not feel equal——”

And Captain Morton departed with the honours of war, but with no triumph
in his heart.

That evening he received the official notification that a mutiny,
attended by considerable loss of life, had broken out at Shahjehanpore.




                              CHAPTER XII
                          HOW THE STORM BROKE


                   What is the voice in the wind,
                     That calls to me?
                   Is it a voice of the hills
                     Or a voice of the sea?
                   Is it the breath of a word
                     My lips have said?
                   Or is it the breath of a soul
                     That forsakes the dead?

                   There are four great Winds,
                     As all men know.
                   North, and South, and East, and West,
                     The four Winds blow.
                   The four great Winds,
                     We hear their breath,
                   But no man hears the passing-by
                     Of the Wind of Death.

                   The East Wind, and the West Wind,
                     The North Wind, and the South,
                   They cannot bring the breath again
                     Into a dead man’s mouth.
                   The Angels of the four great Winds
                     Stand still and hold their breath,
                   There is a greater Wind abroad,
                     The Wind of Death.

By the morning of June 3d, Captain Morton had persuaded some at least of
the married men to send their families to his house. Mrs. Elliot was
there with the four-months-old baby, to which she always alluded as “my
funny little monkey,” thereby greatly shocking Mrs. Hill, whose naughty
six-year-old boy was always “an angel,” no matter what he did.

Miss Darcy, having been attacked by Mrs. Crowther, had discovered that
true strong-mindedness lay in defying that autocratic lady. A row royal
had ensued, during which the two Miss Crowthers sat meekly trembling,
and confided to one another in whispers that it would have been rather
fun to join the others at Mrs. Morton’s.

“Mr. Purslake is sure to be there a great deal,” whispered Milly, and
Carrie blushed a very faint pink, and said, “Oh, Milly!” in her
plaintive way.

Adela was by no means pleased with her ill-assorted company of guests.

“Really, Helen!” she said angrily, “really I do think Richard is crazy.
Fancy asking all this crowd of people here. Clerks’ wives too—like Mrs.
da Souza. Why she is as black as my ayah. I never did like Mrs.
Crowther, as every one knows, but I declare I think she shows her sense
in staying away. It’s a regular Noah’s Ark! I should think all the
servants would give notice.”

“We will give them extra wages,” said Helen gaily; “and if they decamp,
I will cook, and all the little Da Souzas shall wash up,” and she ran
away to dose one of the said Da Souzas with quinine.

Mrs. da Souza was installed in Helen’s own room, which she had already
reduced to a condition of incredible disorder. Three of her children
were actively engaged in adding to the prevailing confusion, whilst the
fourth wailed fretfully upon its mother’s huge and spreading lap.

As Helen entered, sounds of strife met her ears, and she heard Mrs. da
Souza exclaim in a high-pitched sing-song:

“Oah Johnnee, take thee comb out of thee butter, and do not let thee
babee rub it on his face! Oh, verree nahtee babee!” and there was a
shrill scream of passion from the youngest Da Souza.

A mingled spasm of mirth and disgust made Helen’s voice a little shaky,
as she proffered the quinine, and asked how the sick child was.

“He is verree ill,” said the mother. Her tears came as readily as her
anger. Big drops rolled down her fat dark cheeks and fell upon the
little boy’s face.

“He is verree ill. Perhaps he will die.”

“Suppose you were to lay him on the bed? It would be so much cooler. And
perhaps the children could be made to keep quiet. The noise must be bad
for him, poor little fellow.”

“He shall nott die on thee bed. He shall die in my arms,” declared Mrs.
da Souza passionately. Then, with no perceptible change in her
expression, she screamed at the children on the floor.

“Johnnee, will you fight when your brother is dying? Chup now. Be
silent, all of you. Noisee, nahtee children!” The children screamed in
reply, and Helen fled. At the door stood Richard Morton, beckoning.

She went to him quickly, and they stood together for a moment in the
deep verandah screened off from the garden and the outside heat by a
line of hanging bamboo screens.

“Where is Darcy, Helen?” he asked.

“Dr. Darcy? Oh, Lizzie Monson took him over to her house half an hour
ago. Her ayah’s baby is ill, and she wanted him to see it.”

“They must come back. Darcy is in charge here. He had no business——”

Richard had torn a sheet from a note-book as he spoke, and was
scribbling half a dozen lines.

“Here, Helen, send this over at once. Add a line to Mrs. Monson. Tell
her she must come. Say I said so.”

“Yes, Dick, what is it?”

“The 114th lines are on fire. Jelland went, and has sent back for me. I
don’t know what is wrong. Don’t say anything.”

“Of course not.”

Richard hesitated a moment, shook his head, moved as if to go, and then
turned back again.

“Helen, you’ve a steady head; get all these women together if you
can—at the back of the house. Don’t frighten them. Darcy will be here
at once. If anything goes wrong—with the guard—you are all to get
across the nullah, and make for Cawnpore. Do you understand?”

“Yes, is there anything else?”

“No. I must go, Helen.”

“Yes, Dick.”

She met his eyes and added:

“It’s all right.”

For a moment his hand fell on her shoulder and rested there. Then
without a word he was gone.

Helen watched him out of sight. Then she called a servant, gave him
Richard’s note, and one from herself to Mrs. Monson, and told him to
make haste with them. When the man had gone, she went back to her room
and told Mrs. da Souza that the other side of the house was much cooler,
and that they had better move at once. She herself headed the
procession, carrying the smeary baby, who had evidently been playing
with the butter again, in spite of Johnny’s efforts.

The whole family deposited in the dining-room, Helen fetched Miss Darcy
and Mrs. Elliot to inspect the sick child, and then drafted them into an
adjoining room with the suggestion that it would be a charity to assist
Mrs. Hill to fan her husband, whose fever was very high.

She was returning to her own room when Adela emerged from her bedroom,
very angry.

“Helen, you’ve never let that Da Souza crowd into my dining-room? I
think it is a most unpardonable liberty! I won’t have it!”

“Adie, the child is sick.”

“Well, it can be sick in your room. You offered to have them there
instead of being firm with Richard, and now, of course, you don’t like
it, and want to change, and I won’t have it! I simply won’t!”

“What is that!” said Helen in a curious low voice.

She was listening intently, but not to Adela.

“I don’t hear anything except that wretched baby crying.”

“Hush! No, Adie, you are to——”

Helen went to the verandah door and opened it. The heat was intense. It
came in in a hot gust, and the sleeve of Helen’s dark grey muslin dress
seemed to scorch her arm as she leaned out and listened, straining every
nerve.

A brain-fever bird was calling from the tall peepul tree in the Monsons’
garden.

“Brain fever! Brain fever! Brain fever!” he shrieked, and each metallic
repetition was higher than the last.

The Da Souza baby fretted on a low whining note, and Mr. Hill muttered
from the room behind.

Helen had heard something different from any of these sounds. She had
heard a short, sharp sound that seemed to rap upon her brain. A little
nerve quivered there still, and repeated the signal like an echo.

“Helen, do shut that door!”

Helen drew a long breath. It must have been fancy. She was getting
nervous. It would never do for her to imagine things. She took half a
step backwards, and then sudden and distinct she heard the sound
again—clear beyond any mistaking—a shot—two—three—far away—but
clear—dreadfully clear.

Helen Wilmot stepped out on to the verandah and closed the door behind
her. She went to the corner which commanded a view of the road and the
Monsons’ house.

Imam Bux rose up, salaaming.

“What is it, Imam Bux?” she said, and she saw that his hands were
trembling.

“God knows, Miss Sahib. Miss Sahib, what do I know?”

“I heard—shots.”

“It is true.”

“What does it mean?”

“God knows, Miss Sahib.”

Helen caught up a felt hat from one of the verandah chairs, and walked a
few steps clear of the house.

A sentry was pacing up and down. She could see the Police picket in the
Monsons’ garden, and the guard at their own gate. The men were
muttering—looking up and down the road. There was no sign of Dr. Darcy.
Out of the distance came a noise of trampling feet.

“It is the guard. They are coming to change the guard,” said Helen to
herself, but her heart began to beat, not fast, but very hard, so that
she could hear it. It troubled her, because she wanted to listen to that
far-off, trampling noise.

Imam Bux went down to the gate, and looked along the road. There was a
British officer with the guard, and he spoke to the old servant, and
sent him back again.

“The Sahib says it is the new guard. He said, ‘Tell the Miss Sahib to go
in. The sun is hot.’”

Helen nodded impatiently. She wanted the old man to stop talking. She
wanted to listen.

“Helen, you will get a sunstroke,” called Adela. Then she shut the door
of her room with a bang, and just as she did so Helen heard a new sound,
away on the left past the Monsons’ house. It was a sound like horses
galloping, a great many of them, all together; and she remembered that
the Cavalry Barracks lay beyond.

Suddenly Imam Bux spoke in a quavering voice.

“Miss Sahib, ai Miss Sahib! This is no guard that comes. There are some
who walk, and some who run. A guard does not come thus.”

Helen made a step back, half turning. She saw the guard at the gate
stir, and separate into two bodies. She saw the officer glance over his
shoulder. There was a revolver in his hand. He ran a few steps towards
her, and shouted:

“Go in! go in!”

The words came faintly, and they were scarcely spoken when a shot rang
out, and he went down. Helen did not see who fired, but at once there
was a confusion amongst all the men, and a tall Sikh sprang out of the
ranks, shouting and waving his arms.

Helen’s feet clung to the ground. She could not move. She looked down
the road, and saw a long swirl of dust go up into the air. It hung in a
dark cloud, and through the cloud she could see fierce faces and waving
arms, and a medley of men in red and men in white who ran and shouted as
they ran. They cried aloud:

“Join us, brothers, join us!” and half the guard swung forward, and half
held back.

Then there was a wild answering cry, “Oh, yes, we will join you! We will
show you how we will join you!”

It came from the tall Sikh, and at the word the Sikhs who were with him
fired upon the advancing crowd, and pandemonium was loose.

“Miss Sahib! Miss Sahib!” Imam Bux was catching at Helen’s arm, and at
his touch a panic seized her, and she turned and ran for the house. She
did not see the Police guard charge the Sikhs from the rear. That
happened just as she reached the verandah, but before she came to it she
heard a great thundering of hoofs, and she saw Lamington’s Cavalry come
racing down the road. Without pause or check they went crashing past. At
the head of the foremost troop, with lifted head and flying bridle,
galloped a riderless horse. With the noise of thunder they came, and
with the noise of thunder they went. Involuntarily she hung back—her
heart jumped. In that moment Dr. Darcy came out of the Monsons’ house.
He had Mrs. Monson by the arm, and was making her run. Helen saw them
running, and her own feet would not stir. There were more shots. The
running figures fell.

Helen Wilmot drew a quick sobbing breath, and ran, and as she ran she
heard a woman’s scream, and a groaning, and then more shouting, and a
noise like hell.

The house seemed very dark to Helen. She came in out of the strong
light, and for a moment she was blind and giddy, and the dusk seemed
full of hands that caught at her dress, and full of the frightened
crying of children.

“What is it? Oh, what is it?”

Every one seemed to be calling out together, and the noise from the road
grew louder. There were shrieks and oaths, and the clash of arms, and,
high and wild, the battle-cries of the Sikhs.

“We must run,” said Helen. Her moment of confusion was over. “We must
come at once. To the nullah. Richard said so. Imam Bux, take that child.
Yes, Mrs. da Souza, you must. That is right. Adela! Where is Adela!”

“My husband—oh, my husband can’t! It will kill him!” wailed Mrs. Hill.

“He must,” said Helen. “Miss Darcy will help you—Adela! Where are you?”

Mrs. Elliot took her baby out of the ayah’s arms, and opened the door to
the verandah. The noise redoubled and she hung back a moment. Then Imam
Bux passed through with Johnny da Souza, and she followed him. Mr. Hill
tottered after them, his eyes hazy with fever, and his mind confused. He
had heard nothing—understood nothing. His ears buzzed with quinine, and
he thought he could hear a drum being beaten, but he could not tell the
reason for it, nor why his wife should cling to him, and weep. “What a
lot o’ women!” he said thickly, and stout Miss Darcy caught his arm, and
so they stumbled out into the heat, Mrs. Hill crying all the time, and
Jacky highly pleased because he was running races with papa, and mamma,
and all the grown-up ladies.

Helen saw them go, and ran to Adela’s room, calling all the time.
Something held the door against her, and then gave way with a shriek.
She pushed her way in, and Adela, wild with terror, rushed through the
room, and crouched behind the bed.

“Adie! Adie!” cried Helen. “My dear, come. It is Helen—only Helen!”

“Helen, they are killing each other! They are shooting at us. Oh, I saw
them. Oh, Helen!”

Helen pulled her to her feet, and once they had begun to run, Adela’s
panic set her racing, and it was Helen who was put to it to keep up with
her.

When they were clear of the house, they had to cross the wide dusty
sweep which ran all round it. The dust already raised by all those
hastening feet flew up, and hung about them like a mist, only it was
dry. It parched their throats, and stung their eyes.

Beyond the sweep a narrow grassy path ran between low rose hedges whose
flowers were dead, and whose long thorny trails stretched out across the
path, and caught at the women’s dresses as they ran. When they had gone
twenty yards the path turned off at right angles, and for another twenty
yards there was no cover at all, and they were full in view of the black
advancing crowd.

For the Sikhs were all down now. Every man of them dead, with the dead
he had killed around him. In the gateway the corpses lay so thick that
it was easier for the mutineers to climb the outer wall than to pass the
gate which was guarded by the dead. They broke over the wall as a wave
breaks—Cavalry, Infantry, men in the English red, with the English
rifle in their grip, and hate of the English in their hearts, men in the
loose white native dress, high-caste Brahmins, fanatic Mussulmans,
bazaar scum, united by a common thirst for blood and loot.

After one glance Helen looked only in front of her. She had to drag
Adela along, for panic was passing with exhaustion, and she was thankful
that she herself felt neither.

Instead there was an excitement—almost elation—that urged her on, and
gave her strength. She found herself noticing everything,—the blazing
heat of the sun, the fact that the sky was hazy and showed no blue. She
wondered if that were because of the dust of their flight, and a strange
and terrible verse came into her mind and stayed there, “And the sun
shall be turned into darkness and the moon to blood.” Only which of them
would live to see the moon?

There seemed no end to the path. There were bright indigo shadows on it,
odd crisscross shadows, that changed the colour of the grass, and
flickered on the women’s gowns. Suddenly the grass at Helen’s feet was
ripped up. A puff of dust rose from it, and her foot felt a little
roughness as she passed. Adela screamed, and hung back, and a loud
crackling noise came from the direction of the gate. Helen’s mind,
working quite clearly and, as it seemed to her, quite slowly, informed
her that they were being fired upon, but that they must keep on—because
that was what Dick had told them to do.

She dragged Adela forward, and just in front of them she saw some one,
Miss Darcy she thought, fall sideways across the path. She made no
sound, but she moved a little, and one of the clear indigo shadows
became blurred with red. Mrs. da Souza, the fat Eurasian woman, called
wildly, and shrilly, upon her Maker, and dropped among the bushes,
covering her head, but Helen stepped across the body, and pulled Adela
after her by main force.

Helen looked down as they passed and saw the woman’s face. It was Miss
Darcy, and she was dead. You must be dead if a bullet goes in at your
temple, and leaves a strange ragged hole like that. Helen felt no
emotion. She was rather glad that Miss Darcy was quite dead, because
otherwise she would have been obliged to wait, and try and pick her up,
and Miss Darcy was heavy.

It would probably have ended in Adela being shot too, and whatever
happened to other people, she must save Adela. Mr. Hill was down now.
Not wounded, but too exhausted to go any farther. He lay on his face and
sobbed, and his wife sat down beside him, and tried to screen the sun
from his head with her small, useless hands. The tears ran down her face
all the time, and spoilt little Jacky tugged at her skirts.

Helen caught the child’s hand as she went past, but a yard or two
farther on he wrenched away from her, and stumbled back to his mother.
Adela noticed nothing, and Helen’s eyes were set on the turn of the path
only just ahead of them now. There was cover there—tall clumps of
oleander and bamboo. To come into the shade of them was like coming into
safety, but as they reached it, and pressed on, Helen heard a scream,
and something seemed to cry out in her, with a loud insistent calling.

She pushed Adela behind the bamboos, and said in a strained whisper:

“Not a child. One can’t. It’s no good; go on, Adie—I’ll come,” and she
turned and ran back.

But when she came to where Mr. Hill had fallen, he had stopped panting
for breath, and Mrs. Hill lay across him with a bullet in her breast,
and a dead child clutched in her arms.

Helen crouched between the roses, and stared at them, but none of the
three moved, or would move again.

She felt neither grief nor horror. They were dead. Now she could go on,
and that clear insistent calling would trouble her no more. She looked
towards the house and saw that it was on fire. The mutineers were
looting it, but it would not occupy them for long. A bullet sang past
her cheek, and another ripped the muslin of her skirt, but she reached
the turn of the path again, and pushed her way into the bamboo clump to
where she could see Adela Morton’s white dress.

“Come, Adie.”

But Adela was leaning against the bamboo stems half sitting, half
kneeling, and her face was white and wet.

“I’m fainting!” she gasped, and Helen’s grasp tightened on her arm.

“If you faint, they will kill you!” she said in a low hard voice; and
Adela clung to her and trembled, and aided by the slope of the ground,
Helen dragged her a few yards, but the weight on her arm grew heavier
and heavier, and it was all she could do to keep from falling.

“I can’t.”

The words were only just audible. They ended in a long shudder and Adela
sank helplessly to the ground. Helen let her go and straightened
herself. Then she unfastened the large brooch at her neck, and ran the
pin very deliberately into Adela’s arm.

The blood spurted, and Adela came out of her half-swoon with a scream.

“Get up, Adie,” commanded Helen. “They’ll hurt you more than that. Being
killed will _hurt_!”

Adela stumbled to her feet sobbing, and again they ran. They were quite
out of sight of the house by now, and every moment the ground sloped
more. It grew very rough too, and seemed damper. Here and there were
high tussocks of grass, and there was a quantity of low, dusty scrub,
and a few tall trees.

Helen proceeded in a definite direction. She had a clear picture in her
mind and kept constantly to the right, calling to Mrs. Elliot to do the
same. Grace Elliot’s long fair hair had come down, and there was a
blood-stain on her shoulder, but she ran steadily, holding her baby, and
keeping beside Helen, until the sound of the noise and the shouting died
away, and their breath failed them.

At last Helen slackened her pace, and stood for a moment listening.

“No one is coming,” she said in a husky voice. “No one is coming,” and
she let go of Adela, and took a deep breath.

Mrs. Elliot had halted too. She came a few paces nearer, panting.

“Is it safe? Ought we to stop?”

And Helen repeated the same words again.

“No one is coming.”

“Are you sure? Is it safe?”

Safe? Nothing was safe any more, but Helen nodded, and Grace Elliot sat
down, and rocked her little silent baby.

Helen stood for a moment longer, still listening. Then she too sat down,
and laid her head in her hands. So often in the last few days she had
wondered what it would be like when it came, what she should feel—and
do. She had wondered whether she would be afraid; whether she would run,
and scream. The idea had terrified her more than the idea of death. She
had had a vision of herself screaming, and running, and a long thin
knife coming nearer and nearer, until it touched the flesh—the warm,
live flesh. The thought of that knife was dreadful. It would be cold,
very cold, and the cold chill of death would slide along the blade, and
pierce between the pulsings of her heart. That was the picture—the
vision.

The reality was quite different. She did not feel afraid, because all
feeling had quite, quite stopped. She did not feel at all. From battle
and murder, and from sudden death, good Lord deliver us. She had seen
all three, and she felt nothing at all. She had seen women killed, and a
little child, and she had felt nothing.

Adela was crying beside her, as if her heart would break, and Helen
lifted her head for a moment, and rebuked her coldly and sternly, and
then felt vaguely sorry. After all it was proper for Adela to weep,
since Adela was a widow now. Widows ought to cry. Dick was dead. Yes,
Dick must certainly be dead, or they two would not be sitting there so
comfortless in the dust.

Sharp on her wandering thoughts came Mrs. Elliot’s voice.

“Helen! Helen Wilmot!”

Helen raised her head.

“What is it?”

“I can’t wake my baby.”

“Why do you want to wake her?”

It was like a conversation in a dream, all about nothing, and yet
instinct with some nightmare quality, which quivered behind the common
words.

“I can’t wake her,” repeated Mrs. Elliot, in a low, hurrying voice.

Helen leaned forward and touched the baby’s hand. It was lax and warm.
Somehow the warmth of it shocked her. She knew as she touched it that
she had expected to find it cold. Dead hands were cold.

“Its hand is quite warm,” she said vaguely, and Mrs. Elliot gave a
sharp, terrified cry.

“Of course her hand is warm,” she said, and then went back to her old
complaint; “but I can’t wake her!”

Adela Morton looked up with the tears running down her face.

“Is the baby dead?” she whispered to Helen, but the mother heard.

“What?” she said, and gave her a fierce look of hatred. Then she turned
away her head, and they could see nothing but the long fair hair that
fell all around her, and the smear of blood on her left shoulder.

“Hush, Adela!” said Helen, and Adela began to cry again, whilst Helen
sat staring, and Mrs. Elliot rocked and rocked with the baby on her
knee.

The heat of the day increased. The sun beat down. The thin shade
overhead seemed to be burning away. Helen leaned her head against the
tree behind her, and shut her eyes.




                              CHAPTER XIII
                   HOW ONE WAS TAKEN AND ANOTHER LEFT


    Why do we gather so slowly the strength that must pass away,
    Wrested in patience from Time and spent in an hour, in a day?
    Month upon month to the birth, and afterwards year upon year,
    Fashioned in labour and pain, nurtured in striving and fear,
    All we have gathered from Time, passes, is gone like a breath
    Into the vast, unknown, unharvested garner of Death.

It might have been an hour later, or it might have been some much
shorter time, when Imam Bux came to them through the bushes, guided by
the sound of Adela’s low persistent sobbing.

For a moment he stood and watched the three women, with the tears
running down his brown and wrinkled cheeks. Then he called, “Mem Sahib!
Mem Sahib!” and Adela’s little scream woke Helen from the doze into
which she had fallen. At first she saw only a dazzle of glittering light
and dusty green. Then her eyes cleared.

“It is Imam Bux,” she said. “Adela, hush! Do you hear?—hush! Be quiet,
don’t cry. It is Imam Bux.”

“Huzoor,” said the old man, salaaming with a shaky hand.

Helen got up, pressing her hands upon her temples. The dreamlike feeling
had faded. She felt clearer, and she was responsible. Dick had made her
responsible. A stab of pain brought her completely to herself.

“Imam Bux, what must we do? The Sahib said ‘Go to Cawnpore—’ How can we
go? Do you know how we can reach the road?”

“Huzoor, I know.”

She drew the old servant aside.

“Where is the Sahib?” she asked. “Is he dead? Do you think he is dead?”
and her voice was steady because her strong will kept it so.

Imam Bux wrung his hands.

“God knows!” he said. “Many sahibs are dead. It is a madness. It is the
devil’s breath. These sons of Satan have killed many sahibs. Perhaps my
Sahib is dead. They say he must be dead. God knows.”

“Who says?” asked Helen sharply.

“It was Purslake Sahib who said it.”

“Where is he? When did you see him?”

“He also is hiding here in the jungle, and with him is Blake Sahib, very
sorely wounded, and the Colonel’s Mem, and one of the Miss Sahibs.”

“Are they far?”

“A half mile, Miss Sahib. Also the child I carried is with them. I
returned to look for my Mem Sahib, and my Miss Sahib——”

“We will go to them,” said Helen, and she went back to Adela and Mrs.
Elliot.

“Imam Bux says that Captain Blake and Mr. Purslake are a little farther
on; Mrs. Crowther is with them, and one of the girls.”

Adela Morton sprang up with a cry of relief. A man—any man—spelled
protection and safety. She had cried until she could cry no more, and
was ready now to be saved and comforted. The idea that this was only the
beginning of troubles had not presented itself to her mind.

But Mrs. Elliot rose slowly. She was shivering although the heat was so
great, and she turned the baby’s face into her bosom, so that Helen
should not see it.

They came upon the other little band of refugees quite suddenly. Carrie
Crowther saw them first, and she came running to meet them, sobbing, and
trembling with excitement. Her eyes were bright, and there was a colour
in her cheeks. She looked very pretty.

“Oh, Miss Wilmot! Oh, Mrs. Elliot!” she panted. “Oh, isn’t it dreadful?
Isn’t it too dreadful? My poor papa and Milly! Do you know they shot
them? They shot poor Milly.” She choked and caught at Helen’s arm.
“Mamma had gone back to fetch the Sergeant’s baby, and they shot poor
Milly whilst we were running together. We were holding hands, and she
fell down, and I couldn’t lift her up, and then mamma came, and she made
me run again. Oh, dear! Oh, dear!”

Adela Morton pushed past her and clutched at Mr. Purslake.

“Oh, I thought every one was dead! Thank God! Thank God!” she cried.

To do her justice it was not the man with whom she had flirted to whom
she clung, but to safety, protection, help, all personified in the one
able-bodied man of the party.

Mrs. Crowther, on the ground beside Captain Blake’s unconscious form,
lifted her head heavily, and stared at the new arrivals. She frowned a
little at Adela, and then looked vaguely towards Helen and Mrs. Elliot.

Oddly enough Helen’s first pang of pity stirred in her at the sight of
this woman whom she had so cordially disliked.

Mrs. Crowther’s brick-coloured face was now of a uniform streaming
crimson. Her brilliant hair hung in wet wisps across her forehead and
down upon her shoulders. There were horrible stains, not yet dry, upon
the front of the light dress she wore. Her harsh features twitched, and
she made two attempts to speak before any words would come.

Then she said in a dull, strained voice:

“It is very hot. It is very, very hot.”

She turned her head away, and the effort with which she moved it was
pitiable to see. Then she went on fanning George Blake with a wide,
dusty leaf.

Helen came up to her, and knelt down.

“Is he dead?” she asked in a whisper, looking at the half-closed eyes
and deadly pallor.

“Not yet,” said Mrs. Crowther. Then she lifted her own eyes, and Helen
saw that they were rimmed with red, and bloodshot—dreadfully bloodshot.

“My poor Colonel is dead, and Milly, and they say Captain Elliot too.
No, I don’t know who told me.”

“And Dick?”

Helen spoke very quickly because she knew that if she waited for a
moment, she would not dare to ask.

“Dick—where is Dick?”

Mrs. Crowther shook her head, and went on fanning.

“Mr. Purslake.” Helen’s eyes compelled him, and it was at her, and not
at Adela, that he looked as he replied:

“I don’t know. I really don’t know. It all happened so quickly.”

“Tell me what happened, please.”

He passed his hand over his brow.

“My orderly ran in and said that the barracks were on fire, and that
Captain Elliot had been shot.” He lowered his voice. “Then we heard
firing and ran out. Our lines were on fire. There was great confusion.
Noise. Blake caught hold of a bugler and told him to sound the assembly,
and then some one rushed up and said the Colonel was shot. I don’t
really know how it all happened. My head—I don’t seem able to think.
But some one called out Morton’s name, and I saw him jump his horse over
the ditch and ride towards us with a revolver in his hand. Then Blake
was shot, and his orderly was holding him on his horse, so I got up
behind him. One of the native officers helped; and I galloped off, and
got across the nullah, and found Mrs. and Miss Crowther. That is really
all I can tell you, Miss Wilmot.”

He passed his hand over his forehead again, and looked vaguely from her
to Adela. His hazel eyes had the look of shallow shifting water.

“But Richard. Oh, I don’t understand.”

This time it was Adela who asked:

“Where is Richard?”

Mr. Purslake looked dreadfully uncomfortable. He was not formed for
tragedy. He felt bewildered and confused, like an actor who has learned
his trivial part, and finds himself suddenly set to play the hero in
some strange unknown drama.

Carrie Crowther broke the silence with a sob, and Adela cried out: “Why
did he leave us? It was very wicked of him to leave us. What shall we do
now!”

Helen Wilmot took a grip of herself. If this were a dream, an awful,
awful dream, she would wake soon, because to every dream there comes the
moment of awaking, and if it were not a dream, if it were real, then
there was work to do, and a high part to play. By and by this too would
end. Life’s dream would break, and there would be a new awakening.

Meanwhile she must not let her reason go—must keep at bay the impulse
that prompted her to sit down, there in the dust, and let the mists
close in upon her brain.

Helen drew a little away from Mrs. Crowther, whose loud, slow breathing
was more distressing to listen to than any sound of weeping. She was
trying to think. Some one must think, arrange, direct; she was wondering
to whom they could look. George Blake—so near that her hand touched his
soiled uniform. He would have been their helper, but unconsciousness
buried him now, as deeply almost as any grave of earth. She looked
around her at the little band of forlorn creatures. Carrie with her high
flush, fever-bright eyes, and lips that were never still for one moment.
Adela, wearied out, her head against the rough bark of a tree, and a
strand of her shining hair all in a tangle across her breast, which
heaved with a continual sobbing. Beyond them, just where the shade
began, Mrs. Elliot standing quite still, a tense, unmoving figure, with
her head bent above the unmoving child. Farther off again, under a clump
of bushes, Imam Bux, sitting on his heels, and swaying distressfully to
an accompaniment of low whimpers from Johnny da Souza who squatted
beside him.

Here was no help, only great helplessness. Helen’s eyes and thoughts
travelled back, and rested upon Charles Purslake. One shall be taken and
another left. The words passed through her mind. It seemed very strange
that he should be left when so many were taken. If only it were he who
lay here unconscious, and George Blake were in his place. Or Dick. No,
she must not think of Dick—only of what Dick had left her to do.

She looked again at Mr. Purslake—at the dejected droop of his
shoulders, and the nervous movement of his hands. One of them hung down,
and the fingers beat upon the ground as if spelling out a tune.
Continually he cleared his throat, and every now and then he put his
hand to it, and coughed, and then fell to drumming on the ground again.

Helen got up, and went over to him. Touching him on the shoulder, she
beckoned him a little away from Adela.

“Mr. Purslake, what are we to do?” she asked in a low voice.

He threw out his hands.

“We must wait here till nightfall.”

“Yes, and then?”

“Heaven knows!”

“I think we must know too. Dick”—her voice was quite steady, “Dick said
to make for Cawnpore, but it is thirty miles by the road. We can’t walk.
That is, you and I might perhaps, but not the others.”

Mr. Purslake began to pull himself together. Helen was looking him very
straight in the face. He did not admire her composure, but it had a
stimulating effect upon him.

“If you could get a cart—one of those big bullock carts,” she was
saying, and the consciousness that it was she and not he who was taking
the initiative stung him into making a suggestion of his own.

“Too slow. Why, a bullock cart only goes three miles an hour.”

“Yes, but it keeps on; and I’ve been thinking, it will attract less
notice than anything else. If we start as soon as it is dark, we should
reach Cawnpore in the morning.”

Purslake made an impatient movement.

“My dear Miss Wilmot, how are we to get a bullock cart, or any other
cart, for the matter of that? There is Blake’s horse, and that is all we
can count on in the way of transport.”

He laughed feebly.

Helen put up her hand.

“Imam Bux must get us a cart.”

“And bring those rascals down on us?”

“Nothing is safe, but we can’t stay here. Wait a moment and I’ll speak
to him. He will do what he can.”

Imam Bux was terribly shaken, and a sickly pallor showed beneath the
brown of his skin. He put piteous hands together when Helen made it
clear what she required.

He was a poor man. He was an old man. Whence could he obtain a bullock
cart? The sons of Satan would kill him. Certainly they would kill him,
and then there would be nobody to protect his Mem Sahib and his Miss
Sahib.

Helen listened to the wavering excuses, and met each one with comfort,
encouragement, and praise. Her heart sank, but she looked kindly at the
old man, and by and by when he had talked his fill, he shuffled away
through the bushes, and Helen took the little Da Souza boy by the hand,
and went back to Mr. Purslake.

“He will do it,” she said. “And he will come back here, and let us know.
He is very frightened, poor old man, but he will do his best. Now,
Johnny, you sit down here by this lady, and no one will hurt you.
There’s a good boy.”

Adela drew away her soiled white skirts as Johnny squatted down. She
gave a little sob, and looked round for sympathy. She thought Mr.
Purslake might fan her, instead of talking to Helen. Johnny sobbed too,
and Adela pulled at Helen’s dress.

“I am so thirsty,” she said in a complaining voice. “Helen, I am so
dreadfully thirsty.”

“Yes, we all are. Perhaps we shall get some water before long. Could you
sleep a little?”

“In this heat?”

“Try, Adie. Shut your eyes and try. I must go to Mrs. Elliot now.”

“Why can’t she sit down?” fretted Adela. “It gets on my nerves to see
her standing like that. She hasn’t moved once.”

“Nor has the child,” said Mr. Purslake. His eyes went from Mrs. Elliot
to Helen, and she saw the shrinking look in them.

“That baby—Miss Wilmot, what is wrong with it? It doesn’t seem to be
asleep.”

“It is dead,” said Helen, with a catch in her voice.

“How?”

“I don’t know. It hasn’t moved at all. Adie, do you think if you went to
her—you lost your baby—do you think——”

“Oh, _no_!” said Adela. “Oh, I couldn’t—Helen, I couldn’t; how unkind
you are!”

She began to cry again, and Helen without a word left her and went to
where Mrs. Elliot stood, like a woman turned to stone.

Helen touched her lightly.

“My poor dear, do sit down. You’ll want all your strength,” she said,
and then stopped, the other woman’s eyes were so terrible.

Yesterday—was it yesterday or all the ages ago?—Mrs. Crowther had said
that, for all she pretended to be so girlish, Mrs. Elliot must be close
on thirty. Every feature of the worn face confessed to more than thirty
now, and the eyes stared out of a strained network of lines.

“Gilbert?” she said in a whisper.

“They say so,” said Helen, crying. The tears which she could not shed
for Dick came hot and fast for Gilbert Elliot, whom she had scarcely
known. “Oh, my dear, God comfort you—they say so. Give me the little
baby, you poor, poor dear, and sit down, and cry if you can, for it
helps, it does indeed.”

Helen felt a long shudder pass through the arm which was next her own.

“Gilbert too,” said Grace Elliot, in a strained, choking breath.
“Gilbert too”; and with that she moved forward a halting step or two and
sat down, letting the child fall across her knees, and clutching with
both hands at the rough, prickly stem of a little tree.

She turned her head aside, and rested it upon her hands. The long hair
covered them, and covered her face too.

Then like a flood came the tears. Helen Wilmot sat down beside her with
her hands folded in her lap. Her own tears were dry again. There was a
passion of pity and trouble at her heart, but it was a frozen passion
that could find no outlet.

She sat quite still and waited until a dull silence followed rending
sobs. Then again she waited for what the endless day might yet bring
forth.

The sun was at its full strength, the heat of it like a weight suspended
overhead. And this weight seemed to come lower and lower, compressing
the air as it came, making it dense and heavy, so that the lungs
laboured and the blood beat against the temples and the drum of the ear.

The tree beneath which they were gathered gave a thin and ineffective
shade, shot with blinding, dusty sunshafts, and beyond it was a glaring
belt of dry, uncovered ground, which gave back the fierce sunlight with
an unendurable fidelity. Heat and light struck upwards from it, and the
air above it trembled with a faint incessant tremor that troubled the
senses.

A dreary, pain-haunted sleep came to some of them. When they roused from
it, it was like waking into some phantasy which the mind could not
accept.

Carrie Crowther lay with her head upon her mother’s stained dress. Her
eyes were only half shut, her hand twitched, and her lips kept
moving—moving, even in her sleep.

Adela slept too, and the little boy had crept up close beside her. Helen
watched them, struggling to realise that only yesterday they had laughed
and flirted, chattered and gossiped at the Club—and now? What new
existence did these awful birthpangs herald? The old life was gone as
entirely as if they too were dead. They were lost in a new world, a
world of flaring light and pitiless cruelty. What were they to do in it?
and what would be the end?

Helen slipped into a dream of heat and terror, in which Dick called to
her, and she could not reach him. He kept on calling, and calling, and
she woke gasping, with George Blake’s voice in her ears.

As the day wore on his unconsciousness had become less complete. Now and
then he stirred, and once flung round upon his side, with so sharp a cry
of pain that a thrill of sheer terror ran through all the little
company. It was this cry that woke Helen Wilmot. It startled them all.
They had been drifting among shadows, looking into the past, suffering
with a suffering of the mind, and this sharp cry of bodily pain was like
the voice of reality crying aloud in the wilderness of the unreal.

Mrs. Crowther stopped her mechanical fanning and a slow shudder ran over
her heavy form. Carrie muttered in her sleep, and little Johnny
whimpered, but there was only that one cry, and after it the sick man
slid into a deeper unconsciousness than before.

After what seemed like a week of days, Imam Bux returned. He was
shivering with the strain of the day’s work, and a little fever burned
in his blood and made his hand shake as it went up to make the salaam,
but he was full of pride. He had found a man, and the man would not
fail. He would bring a cart—a cart with a cover to it. In the face of
death he had arranged everything. As soon as it was too dark to tell a
white thread from a black one, the man would bring the cart and wait in
the shadow beyond the old bridge. Blake Sahib they must carry. He had
brought a sheet. Thus he could be carried without danger. Also he had
brought—this, and out of the folds of the sheet Imam Bux proudly
produced two bottles of soda-water.

“More I could not hide; I was in fear of my life,” he said, and stood to
be applauded, like a child that knows it has been good and wise. A
murmur went up from all the parched lips, and Johnny da Souza put out
both hands and wailed:

“Pani! Pani!”

Helen spoke quickly in the old servant’s ear:

“And the Sahib?”

The pleased look disappeared.

“Ai—my Sahib,” he said; “God knows. In the bazaar they say that all the
sahibs are dead.”

Two bottles of soda-water do not go very far amongst eight persons who
have had nothing to drink all day, but each had a couple of mouthfuls;
and then again they waited, whilst the shadows lengthened, and the
sun-glare waned.

In this time of waiting a strange experience came to Helen Wilmot. She
was looking out from the shady patch, where she sat beside Mrs. Elliot.
She saw the dusty scrub, and the dark scrawled shadows that lengthened
as the sun went down—and then quite suddenly she heard a cuckoo call.
She heard it quite plainly. It was very far away, but sweet—so sweet,
like a low laugh heard through a thin clear sheet of water, falling.
Cuckoo—and the notes fell nearer. And at the third cry the dust was
gone, and the dry jungle scrub, and instead she saw a pale sweet
sunlight falling between fresh burgeoning trees, upon a sheeted mist of
bluebells. A hyacinth splendour, like sea-water in a bloomy
transmigration. A breeze rippled it into waves, and the waves lapped
nearer, nearer, trembling under the breath of that invisible sound,
nearer and nearer, till with the final laughing cuckoo note, the flower
spray beat against Helen’s outstretched hands. She felt it cool and
exquisite, like a touch of the visible blue of heaven, and then, with a
quick-drawn breath, she shut her eyes, and broke the vision midway. When
she looked again, the light had fallen suddenly, and the dusk was about
their feet.

That night as they jolted over the dry road, packed in the hot covered
bullock cart, with the sick man laid full length and the rest crouched
about him, Helen dwelt on this strange seeing of hers.

Adela leaned on her shoulder and slept, but Helen waked. Once only she
dropped into a half sleep, and dreamed that she stood barefoot in the
midst of that hyacinth sea. Her feet were wet with the rainbow dew of
it, and she plunged bare arms amongst the flowers, and gathered them to
her bosom. Then as she straightened herself, and breathed divine cool
air, she saw that Richard Morton stood beside her.

He laid his hand upon her shoulder, and looked into her eyes. Something
broke in her heart for very gladness, and she awoke into the close heat
of darkness of the covered cart, with a strange parched laughter in her
throat.

Through the opening in the front of the cart, she could see the driver
swaying sleepily, a white sheet covering him from head to foot. There
was a glare of moonlight that turned each little shadow to a pool of
indigo with an orange-coloured edge. Helen looked out with dazzled eyes,
and heard the galloping of a horse, very far away. It came nearer, and
as the rider shouted a masterful “Hut, byle-wallah—hut!” the drowsy
driver started awake, and pulled the cart with a jerk to the side of the
road.

Adela wakened whimpering. Mrs. Crowther fell heavily against her
daughter, who uttered a protesting murmur. Captain Blake groaned once,
and drew a long shuddering breath, and the horseman went by with a
clatter, leaving the moonlight heavy with the dust he stirred.

Helen, her trembling hand upon George Blake’s silent pulse, saw his face
as he passed, and recognised it.

Fatehshah Khan was out of the burning house. Oude flared in the mutiny
behind him, and his face was set towards Cawnpore.




                              CHAPTER XIV
                HOW THE NANA SAHIB SWORE BY THE GODAVERY


   Would’st thou be Master of Men, then learn to govern thy Will,
   For if thou rule not thyself, another will master thee still.

On the morning of the fifth of June, a small group of men were gathered
in one of the inner rooms of a house opposite the Civil Court at
Cawnpore. The room was high and dark, for it had no outside door, and
was lighted only by two very small windows, set twenty feet up in the
stained and dirty wall. The untidy matted floor was only half covered by
a priceless Persian carpet, whose dim, lovely tints could scarcely be
distinguished in the dusk.

In one corner on a native string bed a young man lay tossing and
muttering; his half-closed eyes were bloodshot, and his face was drawn
and thin. A richly embroidered scarf lay across his feet, and a
brilliant silken cushion supported his head, which turned continually
from side to side. Other cushions lay upon the floor, their bright
colours emerging from the shadows with a curious and rather startling
effect. Half a dozen common Mora chairs, made of yellow cane, and bound
with scarlet cotton stuff, were grouped about a table upon which stood a
golden inkstand studded with jewels, a brandy bottle with the top
knocked off, and a high cut-glass tumbler.

In one of the chairs sat a very stout man, dressed all in white. His
thin muslin shirt was fastened at the neck by a great red jewel, but it
opened below, exposing two handbreadths of the fat unwholesome flesh
upon his chest. His small white turban was almost entirely covered with
gold lace, and a thick gold chain hung down into his lap. Between the
gold lace and the gold chain his face had a yellowish look, for the skin
was fair, and tightly stretched across the fat cheeks and heavy, sensual
chin. He was clean shaven, and there were lines about the mouth and eyes
which should not have been on any human face, but in spite of these the
general effect was one of good-natured self-indulgence. Only the dark
glancing eyes were wild, brilliant, and restless, like the eyes of the
young man upon the bed. Emerald peacocks perched upon golden pinnacles
ornamented the hookah from which he smoked, and as he smoked, his eyes
went to and fro continually, and showed a bloodshot rim.

Every now and then he leaned sideways and spat into a golden bowl which
stood on the floor beside him. Then again he smoked, and again his eyes
looked every way. For this was his day of fate. This day he must decide
whether he would remain the Nana Sahib of Bithoor, a mere native
gentleman, denied the honour of a salute, mulcted of the princely rank
and pension of his adopted father, Bajee Rao, last of the Mahratta line,
or whether he would make a bold bid for power and a kingdom. On the one
side there was sovereignty, the title of Peishwa, wealth, power; on the
other, what was there to tempt him? An extra slice of land, a little
favour from the lord Sahib, some trifling indulgence in the Courts—the
hushing-up, perhaps, of that business of his adopted sister’s death.
Nothing more. Nothing further. Only on the one side and the other there
was danger, there was ruin, there was death, and who could say upon
which side the menace was strongest?

To be Peishwa—perhaps the most powerful of all the Peishwas—there was
the lure. Up to now he stood uncommitted. He had proffered help to the
English, whilst sending his emissaries amongst the native soldiery to
fan their growing discontent. He had set a guard upon the Treasury, and
the English Magistrate leaned upon him. Yet that same night he had
listened for an hour to the counsels and ambitions of Teeka Singh, the
ringleader of the Mutineers.

Now he had come to the dividing of the ways, for smouldering Cawnpore
had sent up its first tongue of flame in answer to the challenging
beacons of Oude, and the roar and the smell of burning blew all abroad
on the breath of the rising storm.

Already the sky leaned red and lowering above the city that was to wear
for ever such a brand of blood. Already there was a prophetic tinge upon
that sacred river, of which the peasant folk were soon to say
shuddering, “We cannot look upon it—it is red—all red——”

Dhundoo Punth drew the delicate mouthpiece of his hookah from between
his lips, and drank a long draught from the carved glass at his side,
whilst about him his followers talked incessantly, and their
voices—fierce, arguing voices—echoed high up amongst the dusty rafters
overhead.

Tantia Topee, the soldier of fortune; Baba Bhut and Bala, the Nana’s
brothers; Azimullah, the ex-khitmutghar, the late lion of a London
season—they all talked, separately and all together, urging,
flattering, cajoling, whilst the Nana swayed, and smoked, drank, and
smoked again, with those restless eyes of his glancing from one to
another, and seeing now Tantia’s fierce eyes, now the heavy stare of
Baba Bhut, now the fever-stricken boy on the bed, and now
nothing—nothing at all but his own burning, wavering dreams.

Suddenly he spoke, in the slow, mellow voice of a fat man:

“Who broke out first?”

“It was Teeka Singh, Teeka Singh and the 2d Cavalry,” said Tantia,
leaning on the table between Bala and Baba Bhut. His eyes flashed, his
voice was low and harsh.

“They cut down the Subadar Major because he would not give them the
colours, and they went away shouting, ‘Join us, brothers; join us,
heroes!’ until the Gillis regiment came out too. To-morrow the rest will
come. There is doubt in their hearts to-day, but to-morrow they will
come. Then we can kill all these accursed English, and make a kingdom
here.”

His dark lips lifted a little as he spoke, and showed the white teeth
behind them. They were as white and sharp as an animal’s.

“There are many of them,” said the Nana, “very many. They are a very
strong people.”

Azimullah, the Mohammedan, leaned his elbow on the table, stroking his
handsome chin, with the dark curled beard upon it.

“They were strong, but they have become weak,” he said deliberately.
“Their war with Russia has used up all their men. With my own eyes I saw
their weakness. With my own ears I heard the tales that were told of it,
when I was in Roum. They died in that war, as the wasps die when the
cold weather comes. They were full of disease and weary to their bones
of the fighting. They will not send more men to Hindustan now. They are
weary. This is the time to strike. There is no other time. A wise man
who finds his enemy weak and wounded, kills him quickly, and goes to his
house rejoicing. Our enemy was weak, and we held our hands. Now he is
wounded, he is in our hands to kill. If we are wise, we will kill now.
Then we shall be in safety, and you will be Peishwa, and we, your
servants, will come to honour. That is my counsel. These words are true
words. The Rao Sahib also knows if I have spoken the truth.”

Azimullah ceased speaking, and looked across at the sick man, who had
flung round upon his side, and was listening with a half-dazed
expression, his pale face ghastly against the cushion of flaring orange
silk.

A strong man’s anger finds vent in action, but the resentment of the
weak turns inward, stagnating and breeding the creatures of stagnation.
Francis Manners, whom they called the Rao Sahib, was full of the fruits
of three years’ aimless, brooding hatred. When he had fever, and when he
was drunk, he dreamed dreams of vengeance. When he was sane and sober
his incompetence pressed upon him, and his thoughts were the more
bitter.

Sometimes in those dreams of his he saw Adela Lauriston’s face. It was
mocking, scornful, lovely with the unearthly loveliness of vision, and
then it changed. The eyes wept—the bitter tears rolled down—the head
bent, and bent to him. Imploring hands rose up from the night of sleep
and caught at his. Then his own hands burned, and he awoke to the
throbbing pulses of fever.

Out of such a dream as this he awoke now, and looked at Azimullah with
his restless, brilliant eyes. He was full of opium, and his own voice
sounded to him as if it came from some great height. He had a vision of
the words, falling like knives—like bright flashing knives. They came
swiftly, swiftly from very far away, and they fell into the dark room
with a ringing sound.

“Curse them! Curse the English! What have I to do with them?” Bala, his
fierce uncle, turned an angry look upon him, and he fell again into a
muttering silence.

“Yet they are a strong people,” said Dhundoo Punth doubtfully. He put
his hands together upon his stomach and looked down at the great ruby on
the uppermost finger. It caught the light, and sent out gleams like
blood.

“They are a very strong people,” he repeated, “and if they send many
troops, many regiments——”

“Where will they get them from?” said Bala, in his quick, toneless
voice.

He drew the fine line of his brows together, and spread out his small,
strong hands. He was much darker than his brother, and of a thin, tough
make—a small man, very fierce, and pitted with small-pox.

“Where will they get them from? They are gone. They are poured out like
ghee, and like ghee the sun has melted them, and the earth has swallowed
them up. Be bold, my brother!”

Azimullah had risen. He came near and spoke low, whilst Tantia broke
into an argument with Baba Bhut, a fat man with a stupid face.

“The Mussulman folk talk of the Nunna Nawab for their king, if you draw
back, Maharaja,” he said, his handsome eyes narrowed to a watching look.

The Nana frowned, putting out his hand to the tall tumbler. Suddenly his
assumption of calm was broken up by an outburst of uncontrolled anger.
With the gesture of a furious child, he flung the glass against the
wall, and as Baba Bhut exclaimed, and the splinters flew, he spoke with
a kind of enraged vehemence.

“What can I do? How do I know what I should do? Every one says something
different! You say that they are not strong, but I know that they are
strong, and if we go against them, and they prevail, they will blow us
from guns, and what will it then avail us that I have been called the
Peishwa for a month,—two months—who knows?”

Bala had risen too. He came softly behind his brother, and plucked
Azimullah by the sleeve.

“What is this talk of the Nunna Nawab?” he said, and his eyes were small
and intent.

Azimullah moved a little to meet him, and spread out his hands.

“The talk is as I have said. There are many of the Mussulmans who desire
a Mussulman to be their ruler. They talk of the Nunna Nawab. If the Nana
Sahib does not speak quickly, they will talk more. In the end they will
act also.”

The Nana went on speaking:

“Who is the Nunna Nawab that I should fear him? If I fight for the
English, I will tell them that he is disloyal. I will tell them that he
sought to lead away the Mussulman folk, that he sought to make himself a
king! They will listen to me, and he will be blown from a gun—I will
swear it on the burning oil, and they will listen.”

“Why should we fight for them?” muttered Francis Manners from the bed.

A sweat came out on his face, and he flung out his hand, and cursed his
father’s people in a wild, shaking voice. He was the Rao Sahib now, and
not Colonel Manners’s son.

Bala drew Azimullah a little farther off.

“Presently, when he has talked, he will say, ‘Do as you please, then’;
is not that his custom? And afterwards he will be angry, but his anger
will pass. He has taken brandy and opium. In the night did he sleep? Now
he will desire to sleep, to be in peace, to go to Oula and let her fan
him”; and Bala’s face contracted scornfully.

“That is true talk,” nodded Azimullah.

“But what of the Nunna Nawab?” asked Bala quickly. “What is best? There
must be a proclamation. Send and fetch Moulvie Salamutullah—he shall
raise the Jhunda, and proclaim Jehad. That will bring the Mussulmans to
us. They will come to the holy flag, and they will fight in a holy war.”

Azimullah looked doubtful.

“I have seen him already. We spoke for an hour in the dusk last night,
after I came from Teeka Singh. He will not proclaim Jehad.”

A fierce exclamation broke from Bala.

“Will not!”

The Mohammedan shrugged his shoulders.

“He is a priest. This is a priest’s matter. He says there is no Jehad.
Also what he says is true. There can be no Jehad, no holy war against
people of the Book—the Christians and the Jews. The Jehad is against
the infidel. The Moulvie speaks the truth.” There was a pause. Then he
added with his eyes on Bala’s face: “The Moulvie is instructed, but the
people are ignorant. They know nothing. And the Kazi——”

Bala looked up eagerly, and the Mussulman went on:

“If the Kazi were to raise the green flag, and the Moulvie stood below
it and prayed? Prayer is always good. If he stood with his rosary in his
hands, and prayed—doubtless all who beheld would cry ‘Jehad! Jehad!’
Also they would feel their hatred towards the English much strengthened.
Yet the Moulvie need say nothing.”

Azimullah smiled a little as he finished speaking. He drew his hand down
over his beard, as was his custom. Then he said, “I will send Fatehshah
Khan to the Kazi. He is a useful man. Also he is related to Moulvie
Salamutullah.”

“Fatehshah Khan?”

“He came in from Urzeepore yesterday. I sent him a message to come away.
The regiments there have killed their officers. They will come here and
help us, if the Nana Sahib declares against the English.”

Francis Manners started up upon his elbow; his voice shook. “Urzeepore?”
he said. “What do you say of Urzeepore? Who was killed?”

“Many, they say,” said Azimullah carelessly. “But some of the women
escaped. They came into the entrenchment yesterday. Fatehshah Khan
passed them upon the road. He should have made an end of them then, and
saved us a little trouble”; and Azimullah smiled again.

Francis Manners put his hand to his throat—not like this—oh, no, it
could not end like this. In his dream—in the dream of this very
night—she had wept, but she was alive.

“Who escaped?” he stammered.

And Azimullah shrugged his shoulders, and said:

“How do I know? The Deputy Commissioner’s wife for one—Fatehshah Khan
said it—perhaps he knew.”

Bala played impatiently with the dagger in his belt. He turned from
Azimullah and looked at where the Nana Sahib sat swaying his great bulk,
and talking all the time, though only Baba Bhut took any heed of what he
said.

Baba Bhut, stout as his brother, swayed a little too, as if in sympathy.
Sometimes he said, “True words, brother.” Sometimes he merely nodded his
heavy head. Bala watched them both with a hard look of contempt.

Suddenly there were sounds from the outside world. There was a distant
shouting, the clatter of horses’ feet, and a hum of voices. The smell of
stirred-up dust came into the room, and the smell of burning with it.

The air was full of it, and full of a clamour of confused noises, out of
which came a cry of “Maharaja! Maharaja! Maharaja!” that mounted and
mounted still.

With feet that slipped on the rough matting, a barefoot servant ran in,
too frightened to salaam, and close on his heels there pressed two men
with reddened hands, stained clothes, and fierce, excited faces. Without
ceremony they pushed the servant aside, and Teeka Singh, the foremost,
raised his cavalry sabre in the salute. It was his moment of triumph.
Behind him in the verandah clustered his comrades of yesterday, his
followers of to-day. He spoke loudly, insolently, without deference:

“Here I am, Maharaja, and the Army waits for my word. When I give it,
they will kill the English, and all who hold by the English. Say now,
Maharaja, will you join us and take a kingdom, or will you join our
enemies and take death?”

Dhundoo Punth ceased his swaying; here was decision clamouring at the
doors red-handed. The sabre with which Teeka Singh had saluted was red
too. Half-way up the blade the dull stain showed, and Dhundoo Punth,
beholding it, let this insistent menace outweigh all fear of the white
man’s possible vengeance. Fate and his own ambition beckoned, fear
pricked him, and he took Fate’s way. Who was he to fight against Fate,
that real, unchanging deity of the East?

As the man finished, he spoke, straightening himself, seeking a more
kingly pose.

“What have I to do with the English? I am altogether yours!” Tantia and
Bala came forward. They stood one on either side of the Nana.

Teeka Singh spoke again.

“Will you swear it, Maharaja?” he said.

“By the holy Godavery, I will swear it.”

“Swear it on our heads,” said Teeka Singh.

Dhundoo Punth hesitated no more. The two men bent before him, and he put
his right hand on the head of Teeka Singh, and his left hand on the head
of Gopal Singh, Brahmins both, and took the oath which a Brahmin cannot
break.

“I swear that I am yours. On your heads I swear it,” he said, and a
murmur of approval broke from his followers.

Teeka Singh rose, and fell back a step. His manner became more
respectful.

“We go to Delhi,” he said briefly; and, saluting, he passed out on to
the verandah, and called aloud to his men. A burst of cheering and
shouting came in through the doors which he had left standing wide.

Azimullah bent quickly to the Nana’s ear.

“What are you in Delhi?” he whispered. “Here you would be Peishwa—at
Delhi nothing. This is your kingdom. What have we to do with Delhi?”

The vehemence of the low words disturbed the new look of satisfaction
upon the Nana’s heavy face.

“What can I say?” he demanded. “If I say I will not go, they will be
angry. They will go all the same. And what am I without them?”

“Bid them sack the Treasury here,” said Tantia Topee. He was the soldier
of fortune—alert, resourceful. “I will see that we get our share”; and
he smiled, remembering the elephants brought from Bithoor, the carts and
the waggons stored near at hand. He and Azimullah had made their plans
well.

Bala touched his brother’s arm.

“When their hands are full of rupees, they will think less of Delhi,” he
said. “There are English to be killed here too. You shall tell them that
their faces will be blackened before all Hindustan, if they leave these
accursed people in their entrenchments. Let them slay these first, and
then we will think of Delhi.”

The others nodded, breaking into voluble assent.

The Nana rose from his seat.

“I will go with them. We will go to the Treasury,” he said. “We will go
on elephants. I and my brothers will go. We will open the Treasury and
take what is in it. I will fill their laps with rupees. We will make a
proclamation also. Bid Jowala Pershad see to it. Bid him draw out a
proclamation in the name of the Emperor of Delhi, and in my name;
Azimullah, see to it.”

A thunderous shouting broke upon his speech. For a moment he turned
pale, then as he caught the sound of words amongst the tumult, he passed
with his brother Bala at his side into the outer room, where a long open
door showed the empty verandah, and beyond a wild, disordered crowd, all
leaping, waving their arms, and shouting vigorously. Some one had fired
the Courthouse, and a dense cloud of smoke hung over it, shadowing the
strip of road and the fierce, angry crowd which filled the compound of
the Nana’s temporary abode. The sun slanted beneath the smoke with a
lurid effect. It glittered on the gold in the Nana’s turban as he came
out on to the raised verandah, and looked down on his new followers.
When they saw him they shouted louder still.

“Victory to the Maharaja! Victory to the Nana Sahib! Victory to the
Maharaja!”




                               CHAPTER XV
                        THE FANNING OF THE FLAME


  O Love, if you were dead, would you not come to me
  In breath, and change, and sleep, in dream and mystery,
  Close as the blood of the heart, and dear as the heart’s desire,
  Vision, and Essence, and Flame, till we met and mingled in fire?
  Yet if I find you at all it is only in memory,—
  If you were dead, O Love, would you not come to me?

The mid-June sun beat down on the light haze of heat and dust which hung
above Sir Hugh Wheeler’s entrenchment. The Christian population of
Cawnpore—to the number of about one thousand—was collected within an
irregular space some two hundred and fifty yards square. A four-foot mud
wall enclosed the entrenchment, and within its bounds were two barracks,
built of bricks, the one thatched, and the other roofed with masonry. To
the left, at rather more than a mile’s distance, lay the city of
Cawnpore. To the right, eight partly finished barracks of hot red brick
ran in a slanting line down towards the road that led from the city to
the Grand Trunk road. All round the entrenchment lay the enemy. Their
guns commanded every point of the low-lying camp. Their pickets were
drawn about it in so close a ring that it was fast becoming impossible
for even a native spy to pass between the besieged and the outer world.

With the blindness of the fated, General Wheeler had made his stand in a
place where defence meant exposure, where no supplies from friendly
natives could reach him, whence no retreat was possible. It is said that
he staked all on his expectation that the Mutineers would immediately
proceed to Delhi.

Doubtless his spies had informed him of their intention of so doing; but
he reckoned without the factor of the Nana Sahib’s ambition, and his
desire to found a kingdom of his own, rather than to swell the train of
a Mohammedan Emperor.

The mutinous troops, their pockets full of rupees from the looted
Treasury, were easily worked upon to remain at a spot which had already
rewarded them so richly. They had pleasing visions of looting the city
and of squeezing the bankers. Delhi was far. They would first sweep
their own house clean, purge it with blood and fire from the foreign
taint, and then with something to show for their time, they could move
Delhiwards, and continue their conquering career.

So the Nana held his state in Cawnpore, his batteries rained a dreadful
hail upon the doomed entrenchment, and his chief ally, the terrible June
sun, poured down his maddening floods of light and heat, killing the
weakly, and weakening the strong.

On the afternoon of June 14th, Helen Wilmot came out of the thatched
barrack, which served as a hospital, and ran quickly across the angle
between it and the second building. She drew a breath of relief as she
slipped in at the open space from which the door had been shot away, and
stood for a moment accustoming her eyes to the dim light.

The long barrack room, which she reached by a second open door,
presented a very curious appearance. It resembled the deck of an
emigrant ship, for the whole of the available floor space was taken up
by groups of women and children, sitting, lying, or standing. One or two
had fastened a sheet, or a shawl, across some corner, in order to obtain
a little privacy, but for the most part they remained in full view, the
women reading, writing, or attending to their children. Smaller rooms
opened from the main room, at intervals; the roof of these only rose to
half the height of the main building, and above its level were the
windows that had lighted the long room. They were wide, gaping holes
now, with the framework almost entirely shot away. Sometimes a brick
fell down amongst the little groups below. Sometimes a glancing bullet
followed it. Sometimes a round shot crashed its way through the masonry,
and brought a quick, terrible death to man, or woman, or child.

There was a continual crackle of musketry, a continual sharp rattle of
bullets against the heated brick of the walls. Some of the women still
winced at each fresh impact, but the children took no notice at all.
After the first day no one cried out or made a noise.

Even when the torn air whistled overhead, and shell or round shot went
screaming past, there were perhaps clasped hands, pale lips, and beating
hearts, but no spoken tribute to terror. So soon do terrible things
become a custom.

The children took no notice. The boys played marbles with the spent
bullets, and the little girls arranged a mimic hospital, and nursed poor
wounded soldiers made out of scraps of rag or splinters of bamboo.

Helen heard two of them talking as she picked her way across the crowded
floor.

“Your man’s dead, Nellie”; and Nellie whimpered:

“He isn’t, then; I say he isn’t.”

“’Course he is. He’s got a bullet right frough and frough of his head.
Just like my daddy had; he had a bullet right frough and frough of his
head, and he died, so ’course your man is dead.”

“He’s got a new head. A new mended head,” said Nellie with the immovable
obstinacy of the weak, and Helen patted the child on the shoulder as she
passed on.

She found Adela Morton sitting in a corner, fanning herself. Helen sat
down, too, and leaned against the wall. A level beam of dusty light
traversed the darkening room, very high overhead. A cloud of flies hung
floating in it. They made a slow continual buzzing sound. Helen watched
them for a moment with uplifted face. She looked very tired.

“Helen, you will kill yourself,” said Adela fretfully. “Every time you
go over to that hospital, I think you are going to be shot. You don’t
know what I go through. And even if you don’t get killed that way, you
will wear yourself out with this dreadful nursing.”

“Some one has to do it,” said Helen with a gleam of humour.

“I should let it be some one else.”

Helen sighed.

“Oh, it is easier to be doing something,” she said. “Adie, I came to ask
if you would come over for five minutes when the sun is down. Mr.
Purslake was hit last night. He is very bad, and he keeps on asking for
you.”

“Oh, I couldn’t.” Adela stopped fanning, and turned terrified eyes upon
her cousin. “I couldn’t really, Helen.”

“Adie, I think he is dying.”

“People would think it so curious,” faltered Adela, and humour and anger
together flashed from Helen’s eyes.

“I don’t think it will compromise you irretrievably,” she observed.

Adela hung her head a little.

“Helen, don’t. Some one might hear you. I don’t think you ought to say
things like that. One has to be so careful. People do talk so, and you
know it is different now—now I am a widow. Richard might——”

Helen lifted a perfectly colourless face, and looked at Adela with an
anger which she herself did not understand.

“Hush!” she said imperiously, and Adela fell on a plaintive note.

“How unkind you are! I am sure, Helen, you might think how dreadful it
all is for me. To be a widow at three-and-twenty, and not even proper
mourning to put on, and no one to look after me or do anything. You are
most unfeeling, I do think”; and she began to weep a little, silently.

“Richard wouldn’t ask me to go out to that horrible hospital and see a
lot of dreadful wounded people and be shot dead,” she sobbed; “and you
know he never liked poor Mr. Purslake—you know that quite well.”

That new anger shook Helen again. She pressed her lips together, forcing
them to be silent. But she could not silence her thoughts. Dick? What
right had Adela to speak of him at all—Adela who had never loved him,
who had troubled him so—had hurt him so. Now he could not be hurt any
more, or comforted any more, and Helen’s heart was like a thing in
torment because there was nothing that she could do for him now, and she
began to know how much she could have done. A fortnight ago—that
fortnight that was like an age—it would have shocked her to look into
her heart and find it full of the image of another woman’s husband. Now
she had come past that. Dick was in her heart, but if there was passion
there, it was like the passion of thwarted motherhood. It ached only to
be spent, to give, and to console—and Dick was dead. With each ebb and
flow of her breath the thought ebbed and flowed. With each beat of her
pulses, it beat upon her brain and upon her heart.

Adela had said that she was killing herself with work, but it was not
the work which weighed so heavily upon her strength. Work was salvation,
but whenever she tended any wounded man, her old enemy, the imagination,
showed her Dick so torn, so hurt, and alone, with no one to ease the
pain and bring him water, or take the hand that had once grasped life so
strongly, and now relaxing—letting it go for ever—yet groped for one
human touch before the utter darkness closed.

Adela dried her eyes and looked curiously at Helen.

“You _do_ look tired,” she repeated. “Oh, dear, won’t it be nice to
sleep in a proper bed again, and have a bath. How long do you think we
shall be in this dreadful place, Nellie?”

“I hope not very long.”

“Yes, you hope, but why doesn’t some one do something to get us out of
it? That is what I want to know. I am sure I should do something if I
were a man. I suppose anyhow we should have to wait till September
before sailing for home, though I am sure I don’t know what I shall do
when I get there, now that I haven’t got poor mamma to go to. Of course
I shall have to keep very quiet for a year, and I don’t know what money
there is. I suppose poor Richard’s life was insured. Mamma is sure to
have insisted on that.”

“Adela, I can’t bear it,” said Helen suddenly.

“Really, Helen, what did I say? And as to bearing it, I don’t know what
you mean. You haven’t lost your husband, and I shall have to wear black,
which never suits me, and a frightful widow’s bonnet, and those bonnets
make every one look forty; I’ve often noticed it. And I shall be burnt
to a cinder in this dreadful heat. I try to be cheerful for the sake of
other people; but I am sure it is enough to depress any one.”

“Of course it is,” said Helen in a curious voice. “Poor Adie, a lost
complexion would be the last straw, wouldn’t it?”

It was almost dark in the long room now, and almost silent too. Helen
got up, wearily.

“The firing has stopped. I must go back,” she said. “Will you come?”

“Helen, I told you I couldn’t, and oh, I wish you would stay here. It is
so lonely, and I know you will be killed, and I shall have no one left.”

“Poor Adie,” said Helen again.

Her voice was quite gentle now.

“I will try not to get killed, my dear. It would be rather like
deserting, wouldn’t it?”

She moved away, retracing her steps amongst the fanning women and the
pale, fretful children.

The shaft of sunshine was gone, for the sun had dropped, and the thick,
hot darkness was coming down upon the room like a suffocating blanket.
Beneath it some of the children were already beginning to fall into a
restless sleep.

The firing had ceased at sundown, and the room was full of small fretful
noises. Here and there a baby wailed, here and there a mother crooned
some little cradle-song.

Helen stopped just by the door, and spoke to a small cross child of
four, who was being undressed by a tired little lady in a soiled green
gown.

“Good-night, Jenny,” she said.

“Not good-night, welly bad night,” said Miss Jenny with conviction. The
mother gave a sad half-laugh.

“She does so hate not having her bath,” she explained. “But I’ve got a
lovely plan. I am going to undress her, and take everything off, and we
will pretend a beautiful bath, and rub, and scrub, and go to bed ever so
clean and comfy.”

“Jenny wants real bath—Jenny hates pertence bath!” wailed Jenny.

Helen stooped again.

“This is a very special sort of pretence bath,” she whispered. “Just for
Jenny. When Jenny has had it, she will go ever so fast asleep, and dream
she is swimming in a lovely silvery sea, with pink fishes, and blue
fishes, and sparkly goldy fishes, and to-morrow Helen will tell her a
story all about real mermaids.”

“Now! Tell Jenny now.”

“To-morrow,” said Helen, nodding wisely. “First Jenny will have the
pretence bath, and then she will have the lovely swimming dream, and
to-morrow Helen will tell her the mermaid story; and she must have a
kiss or else the dream will stay away.”

The child put up her face. Only the eyes were visible in the half-light,
and they were full of pleased anticipation. Helen kissed the little damp
chin, and passed on.

A very young girl with her fair hair in a loose plait was waiting by the
door. She caught timidly at Helen’s dress, and then drew back colouring.

“Oh, Miss Wilmot,” she breathed; and Helen smiled and said:

“What is it, Lizzie?”

“Oh, Miss Wilmot, don’t you think I might come and help in the hospital?
Do ask them to let me.”

“My dear, you are too young.”

Lizzie Carthew made a hesitating and yet impulsive movement.

“I am _nearly_ eighteen,” she said. Her voice was the voice of a child
who has always had all that it wanted.

“I shall be eighteen in September, and I am engaged to be married, you
know, and mamma always said I was a good nurse.”

Helen laughed.

“Wait till you are married,” she said teasingly.

Lizzie pouted.

“Papa said I must wait till I was eighteen to be married. Mamma was
married when she was seventeen. Oh, Miss Wilmot dear, do you think they
are being very unhappy about me? I do wish I could write and say I was
safe. Perhaps they have heard that poor Aunt Martin was killed, and
don’t know that I am safe. And John, perhaps he thinks I am dead. Oh,
Miss Wilmot dear!”

“Poor little Lizzie,” said Helen.

“Dear Miss Wilmot, if you could get them to let me go to the hospital
and help; if I might be doing something, I shouldn’t fret so. You don’t
know how terrible it is to sit here all day long and think about poor
Aunt Martin. I had only been staying with her for a week when it
happened, and we were going to the hills a week later. I do want
something to do so badly.”

“Why don’t you help with the children?” said Helen. “They are such
dears, and some of the mothers have more than they can manage.”

Lizzie pouted again.

“Oh—children,” she said. “No, I want to be like you. I do think you are
so splendid. I want to nurse the wounded, and be useful, and for John
and mamma to know I was quite grown-up and sensible. They do treat me
like a child, really they do, and if I were like you, they couldn’t.”

Helen laughed, and kissed her.

“I sha’n’t be splendid if I am late,” she said. “Don’t be in too great a
hurry to be grown up, Lizzie,” and she passed out through the shattered
doorway.

It was a relief to come out of the close, unwholesome room, even though
it was almost hotter outside. The trampled mud underfoot, the piles of
rubble, the brick walls of the barracks, radiated the day’s heat to an
almost unbearable degree.

Helen had left the hospital thermometer standing at 126 degrees, and the
air had not yet grown perceptibly cooler, though the absence of the
sun’s glaring light was a relief to eye and brain. She stood for a
moment in the angle between the two buildings, and looked at the sunset.
A belt of dull, yet glowing orange lay along the horizon. The black mass
of one of the unfinished barracks rose against it and the trees on the
road beyond. Above, the dusty air was all full of a crimson glow which
deepened into great streaks and blotches, like smears of new-spilled
blood. One narrow purple cloud lay like a menacing bolt between west and
south, but all the rest of the sky was cloudless, hazy, and penetrated
with soft dying shades of blue and green, that failed as the eye rested
upon them, and darkened into shadowy grey.

Helen stood and looked. She remembered the crimson light behind the
tamarisk trees at Urzeepore, and how she had watched it with Dick. It
was the same sun—the same light—the same glow, but everything else was
changed. Of the little party of eight who had escaped the massacre at
Urzeepore, three were gone already: George Blake, who had died in the
cart, with her hand in his; Mrs. Crowther, dead of heat apoplexy; and
Grace Elliot, struck by a flying bullet. Carrie Crowther’s reason was
gone, and Charles Purslake was dying.

Helen felt a weary reluctance to return to the crowded hospital, where
the tainted air was full of groans and the breath of dying men. To
suffer oneself was not much—at least, it occupied the mind—but to see
children suffer, and brave men who had been strong once—from these
things her flesh shrank.

Some one came to the hospital door and opened it. A confused murmur of
sound came out, a sound of muttering, a sound of groaning—a man’s voice
singing.

Helen caught the words as she lifted her stained skirt out of the dust,
and moved across the open space.

It was Charles Purslake, who sang in a voice high with delirium:

            “Dey try for to sleep, but it ain’t no use;
             Sing song Kitty, can’t you ki me oh,
             Dere legs hang out for de chickens to roost,
             Keemo, kimo, dar oh whar,
             Wid my hi, my ho——”

The voice strangled on a groan, and as Helen came to the doorway she
heard the man in the next bed to Mr. Purslake praying aloud in a harsh
and melancholy voice. He was the runaway son of a Methodist minister,
and the unheeded prayers of his wild boyhood thronged his clouded mind.
He, too, was dying.

Helen turned for a last breath of air before she went in. As she did so,
one of the lights that marked the enemy’s lines seemed to rise swiftly
into the air. It travelled towards her with an inconceivable rapidity
that paralysed her reasoning faculties. As it came she heard a loud
whistling, hissing noise. Then it passed overhead, so close that she
thought she could feel the heat of it. A man came behind Helen and
pulled her through the door.

“You shouldn’t stand there with the lights behind you,” he said.

“What was it?” asked Helen.

“That? They are trying to set us on fire. That’s all. I should like to
wring the neck of the man who roofed this old death-trap with thatch! It
will burn down as sure as fate some day.”

It was burned down that night, and with the burning of the hospital,
horror rose to its height.

Helen never forgot the roar of the flames, as they lifted in a pillar of
fire and smoke to the arch of the midnight sky. It was like the roar of
all the waters of the world falling over some high and dizzy precipice.
They fell thundering, and sent up a continual blinding spray, that
shone, and showered, and burned the living flesh of any creature upon
whom it came down. And it came down on many.

Heroism had become part of the daily round. The men who all day long
endured the sun, that they might defend the low mud wall, and braved a
drift of bullets to draw water for the women, were trained to a courage
beyond the common. They met the furious heat of the fire, as they met
the tropic heat of the day, and all the time, as they went to and fro,
dragging out the wounded, and struggling with the flames, the enemy’s
fire poured in on them, and man after man went down, with a shattered
limb or some wound more mercifully mortal.

Some of the wounded perished in the fire, and all the medical stores,
all the surgical instruments were destroyed. To be wounded meant an
almost certain death henceforward, since it was impossible to extract a
bullet, perform an operation, or dress wounds.

At the very height of the fire, the enemy attacked in force; the crackle
of musketry and the roar of the guns were added to the tumult, and
children woke screaming to see their mothers upon their knees. The
slate-roofed barrack stood, but it was soon overcrowded, and many women
and children and wounded men were driven into the open, where they
cowered down in any angle of the wall which could afford a temporary
protection from the stinging drift of bullets, and the gusts of
scorching air which blew from the blazing hospital.

Helen found herself on the south side of the barrack, with two wounded
privates, one of them in agony from a broken thigh, and the other the
man whose bed had been next to Charles Purslake’s; Charles Purslake
himself was dead. It seemed to Helen that he had been dead a long time,
but this man was not dead yet, and whilst he lived he raved wildly about
the burning lake of torment, and the worm that dieth not, the fire that
is not quenched.

Jenny and her mother crouched beside Helen, and Lizzie Carthew was with
them. They had moved from their place near the door, and had been unable
to get back to it. There were also two other women whom Helen did not
know, one of whom had a baby in her arms, and two trembling children at
her skirts. The baby fretted, and Jenny cried all the time, but the
other children did not cry. Only they shook all over, and in the lurid
light that failed and flared, and flared and failed again, Helen saw
their eyes wide with a dreadful unchildlike terror, and their faces
fixed in a dreadful unchildlike self-control.

“Hell—burning, burning hell,” whispered the delirious man, and the
intense horror in his voice made the words audible through all the din.
“Burning, burning hell, and the smoke of their torment going up for ever
and ever and ever. Amen, so be it.”

Jenny gave a loud, terrified scream.

“I daren’t move,” said the mother. “But this is so dreadful. Will he die
soon, Miss Wilmot?”

Then she broke off with a quick “God have mercy!” as a cluster of
drifting sparks showered down not a couple of yards away, and with a
loud and terrifying concussion which shook the ground upon which they
sat, the guns of Ash’s battery broke upon the assault.

At once there was a loud, wild outcry and a shrill, screaming sound that
sank away again into the common clamour of battle, as the men in the
trenches poured out successive volleys of musketry. Helen was past being
afraid, but her heart ached for the children. She crawled a little
nearer to the two who sat and trembled, and slipped an arm about each.

“I am going to tell Jenny a story,” she said, “such a nice story. Come
and listen.”

The children shook a little more when she touched them, and the mother
said under her breath:

“Don’t take them away. Don’t take them away.”

“Oh, no. I will sit just here. Jenny, don’t you want to listen? It’s a
story about a palace made of fire, a beautiful golden palace.”

There was less noise now, and here in the angle of the building they
could hear themselves speak.

“Don’t like fire,” fretted Jenny, who had almost cried herself to a
standstill.

“Oh, but it is ever so beautiful,” said Helen cheerfully. She pulled the
strange little boy and girl close down on either side of her, and this
time they yielded, and pressed against her like silent, frightened
animals.

“It is ever so beautiful, you know. Let us count the colours in the sky.
I have counted eight already. That is one more than the rainbow has, and
the eighth colour is the fire colour—the beautiful rosy pink
colour—there, see, Jenny, up there. And just look at the golden, golden
birds flying up there in the sky. Look, quick. I saw a whole cloud of
them go by, and there comes a swarm of shining bees. I wonder what hive
they belong to; I expect they will fly right on, and on, and on, till
they come to the golden sun, and then they will hang down all in a
cluster on the sun tree’s topmost branch, till the Angel of the Sun
throws them one by one out into the dark sky, to shine in the night, and
be beautiful golden stars.”

Helen had a very full, soft voice. It filled the children’s ears, and
their terror of the flying sparks was changed into interest.

“They are sparks, not bees,” said the little boy doubtfully. “And they
hurt. One hurt my hand. It fell on it, and hurt it.”

“He doesn’t ever cry, because he is a boy, and boys don’t cry, but it
did hurt. It hurted dreadful,” said the little girl.

“Bees sting,” said Helen wisely. “All bees sting if they are touched;
but we forgive them, because of the honey they make, and these bees made
star honey for the baby angels.”

“Is there baby angels?” demanded Jenny.

“Oh, yes! Little darling baby ones, with baby wings, and baby hymns to
sing.”

“And do they eat the star honey?”

“They do. And then they grow up big and strong, and able to take care of
the little earth babies, and sing them to sleep at night if they are
frightened.”

“Sing a baby angel’s song,” said Jenny imperiously. “Jenny’s sleepy,
sing to Jenny.”

The sick man in his delirium threw out his hands and groaned lamentably.

“Water!” he cried. “Across the great gulf—one drop to cool my tongue,
one single drop—Lazarus, Lazarus——”

Helen crawled to him on her hands and knees, and when she came near he
snatched at her dress, and she felt the burning fever in him strike
through its tattered folds. She put her hand on his forehead, and he
gave a sort of gasp, and said in an altered voice:

“Mary—is it Mary? I have had such a dream. But it is all—right—now.”

The words came slowly and sleepily. With the last he turned his head.
There was only a strip of sacking between it and the trodden ground, but
he lay still and slept Death’s sleep. The man beside him was drawing the
long breaths of endurance. He never spoke nor moaned, only lay staring
at the sky, and drawing those deep breaths.

Helen stayed for a moment longer, bending her head, and praying. Then
she came back to the children and sat down.

“Has the noisy man gone to sleep again?” said Jenny. “Jenny wants to go
to sleep. Sing to Jenny.”

Helen’s own throat was burning, but the sleepy little voice was
insistent. She put an arm about each of the stranger children, and sang:

                “I dreamed a dream the other night,
                  And long before the dream was done
                I had seen the Angel of the Moon
                  And the Angel of the Sun.

                “The Angel of the Moon was white,
                  He had the strangest, kindest eyes;
                I looked at him, and all at once
                  I too was very wise.

                “There came a golden, singing wind,
                  It blew so long, it blew so loud,
                It hid the Angel of the Sun,
                  All in a golden cloud.

                “I could not hear the Angel’s voice,
                  It blew so loud, it blew so long,
                And yet I know that Angel sings
                  A holy, burning song.

                “Because the Angel of the Moon,
                  He looked so deep into my eyes
                That I could hear the echoes fall
                  Far off in Paradise.”

Jenny’s mother put her hand softly on Helen’s arm as she finished. The
children were asleep, Jenny with her head upon her mother’s lap, and the
other two children cuddled up against Helen. Lizzie Carthew was crying
to herself.

Helen leaned against the hot brick wall at her back, and the noise and
the clamour of the attack died away. The glare of the burning barrack
fell lower and lower. The thick smoke drifted away northwards on a light
breeze, and the stars looked down again out of the hush of illimitable
space.




                              CHAPTER XVI
                              THE WAITING


             It’s look your last on the Sun, my Heart,
               And look your last on the Moon,
             And look your last on the Stars of Heaven,
               For the dark will be coming soon.

             The Sun, and the Moon, and the Stars are far,
               And only the dark is near,
             And the dark may be full of the dream we crave
               Or full of the dream we fear.

When Richard Morton had fired the last shot in his revolver, he backed
his horse against a high mud wall, and got out his sword. He saw Colonel
Crowther fall, and he saw a Naik cut down Major Marsh, and go on cutting
and cutting at him as he lay on the ground. Then a shot struck his
horse, and it reared up, and fell over with him, and he became
unconscious.

When he opened his eyes he was in a small room with mud walls and a mud
floor. He lay on a string bed, and one of the native officers was
bending over and looking at him.

Richard Morton sat up and recognised the man. There were two other men
in the little room, and he recognised them both. One was his old
orderly, Issuree Singh, and the other two were Durga Ram, subadar, and
Jowahir Lal, two of the four native officers who had come to see him
upon his arrival at Urzeepore.

The man by the bed saluted and stepped back. Richard Morton looked at
him in silence, and he put up a protesting hand.

“It is a madness, Sahib,” he said.

“And are you mad too?” asked Richard Morton.

“God forbid,” said the man. “We are your servants. Am I a dog that I
should forget? When the river carried away my son, did you not save
him?”

“And your son?” asked Richard Morton.

The man hung his head and fell back.

“He is young,” he muttered.

In that hut Richard Morton remained three days and nights. Neither
threats, persuasions, nor promises would induce the men to let him go.
They had saved him at their own risk, and were determined to keep him
from destroying himself and them. When he heard that some of the ladies
had escaped, and were believed to have reached Cawnpore, he gave up
attempting to persuade them, and waited quietly for the next move. After
three days they sent him by night to Aunut Singh, the grateful zemindar,
and the whole body of Mutineers flocked into Cawnpore to join the Nana’s
standard.

At Cawnpore things went badly enough. After the burning of the hospital,
there was no longer sufficient shelter for all the women and children.
The one barrack which still remained standing was riddled with shot, but
at least its battered walls gave some slight protection from the flying
bullets and the blaze of the midday sun. But only a limited number could
be accommodated under its roof, and if the wounded had not died almost
as quickly as they were brought in, still more of the women and children
would have had to seek the shelter of the trenches. Shelter is the word
one uses, but the facts make a mockery of it. What shelter does a
four-foot wall afford? At first the men put up frail canvas structures,
so that the women might have a little decent privacy, a little shade
from the sun; but as fast as they were reared up, the enemy marked them,
and shot them down again with deadly fire, that tore the ruined canvas
into shreds, and brought it fluttering down upon the crouching forms
beneath. Only too often a glancing bullet would tear its way through
more than the canvas, and the tattered cloth would be stained red as it
lay.

When the firing slackened at nightfall, some of the men dug holes and
trenches, and here the women spent the hot, dreadful days. Some died of
apoplexy, and some of their wounds. One, at least, found that death came
too slowly, and ran with her children into the open, waiting there for a
quick end.

A day or two after the fire Helen Wilmot was sitting in the trench
beneath the eastern wall. For about five yards the earth had been dug
away to a depth of three feet, and in the hollow thus formed, she and
others were crouching. The sun was directly overhead, so that the wall
no longer afforded any shade. A narrow strip of canvas stretched between
two low sticks was their only protection, and as it barely cleared their
heads, the heat of the sun struck through it with torturing intensity.

The two grave-faced children whose acquaintance Helen had first made
upon the night of the fire sat beside her. Their mother and her infant
were dead, and they had attached themselves to Helen in a
matter-of-course way, which at once amused and touched her. Little Jenny
was dead too—of dysentery. Her mother sat by Helen. She had not shed a
tear—no, not one, and every now and then she smiled.

Helen pressed her hand, and looked at her with brimming eyes, and the
mother said in a low voice:

“I am so thankful—so thankful.”

After a moment she spoke again:

“They can’t hurt her now. No one can. My little lamb. She’s with her
father. Oh, Helen, I have been so terribly afraid of dying and leaving
her all alone to be hurt and frightened. She is so little to be
frightened—my Jenny. Now I am only thankful.”

Helen could only turn away her head.

Lizzie Carthew, crouching behind the other woman, met her eyes with a
tired little smile. She looked very white and thin, and her fair hair
was rough and dusty.

“I’ve been counting up,” she whispered, “and I do believe my wedding
dress will be coming out next week. All my other things were being made
out here, but mamma would send home for that. My godmother was giving me
a Brussels flounce to put on it, and mamma had saved her own wedding
veil for me to wear. Papa said I was to wait till September, when I
shall be eighteen, but mamma sent for the dress a long while ago, and if
John could have got his leave the wedding would have been early in
August. Mamma doesn’t ever argue, but things are generally done her way.
She just lets papa talk, you know, and when he has finished talking, he
gets tired of the whole thing, and says, ‘Oh, do as you like, Bessie.’
Mamma’s name is Bessie. I am Elizabeth after her. So, you see, I think
it _would_ have been August, but now”—her lips quivered
childishly—“now I think it won’t be ever at all.”

She stopped suddenly, pressing her hands tightly together and struggling
for self-control.

The woman beyond her made a weary movement.

“It’s terrible hot,” she said, “terrible hot it is. I heard a man swear
at the heat a while ago.”

She spoke in a hoarse, gentle voice with a strong West Country accent.

Mrs. McNeil, a Scotch sergeant’s widow, looked up with reproof in her
wild eyes.

“Is this a time for swearin’, an’ for takin’ the Lord’s name in vain?”
she said. “The heat is the Lord’s judgment, an’ we should a’ be thinkin’
o’ our sins.”

The other woman sighed in a depressed manner.

“I don’t hold with swearing,” she said. “And I don’t swear myself,
though I’ve known pious folk that did.”

“This is no’ the time for swearin’,” repeated Mrs. McNeil. Her face was
deeply flushed, and she stammered a little in her speech. “Seek ye the
Lord, whiles He may be found. Call ye upon Him whiles He is near. Let
the wicked forsake his ways, an’ the unrighteous man his thoughts, for
the hour is at hand, an’ the great an’ terrible day of the Lord is at
hand.”

Helen leaned across Lizzie Carthew, and laid her hand on the woman’s
arm.

“Please,” she said. “Oh, please. You are frightening the little girl.”

Mrs. McNeil turned her eyes upon Helen. They were so wide open that the
iris could be seen as an unbroken circle, with a rim of white around it.
And the white was all bloodshot.

She shook her head, and went on in a rapid, yet halting fashion. “I had
a dream last night—an’ I saw a great wall, a great high wall, an’ there
came out as it were three fingers o’ a man’s hand, an’ wrote upon the
wall. An’ the writin’ was red, an’ the hand—was a’ bluidy.”

She fell back against the side of the trench muttering to herself, and
the West Country woman shivered and drew away.

“She’s a terrible frightening woman,” she whispered to Helen. “There was
one like her in our village, and my mother never would let us go by her
cottage. There was a young man, she said, would live to be hanged, and
hanged he was, in Exeter gaol, on the day that I was born. Edward Carey
his name was, and that gave my mother a fear of her, though there were
some that thought she was a wise woman, and maybe if she had told me
what was to come, I’d have stayed to home with mother.”

She paused, sighing deeply.

“It’s terrible hot,” she said. “My father he was a miller, and there was
a stream ran by our house. I never thought anything of water then, but
oh, my dear soul, if I had a drink of it now! Many’s the time I’ve drunk
out of my hand, and splashed the water about, and been punished for it.
It was very cold water, and there was rats in it. We had a cat used to
catch them. There’s not many cats can. But the rats they used to come up
by the mill, after the grain, and the cat she used to sit and watch, and
there was a little hole so big as a tea-cup, and when the rats came out
through it, she’d catch ’em. Oh, my dear soul!”

The woman’s face worked pitifully.

“Don’t,” said Lizzie Carthew. “Oh, don’t, don’t!” and she put her head
down on her knees. The children stared at her, round-eyed and
interested. They saw her thin shoulders heave.

“Oh, I shall never see John and mamma again, I know I sha’n’t,” she said
in a thin little voice.

Helen whispered in her ear, but the poor child pushed her away.

“I sha’n’t, I sha’n’t,” she gasped.

“Oh, John! Oh, mamma!” and the exceeding bitterness of the last word
brought the tears to the Devon woman’s tired eyes. She began to pat the
girl’s shoulder timidly, and after a while Lizzie’s sobs grew fainter,
and Helen became aware of a low-voiced conversation at her elbow.

“She could,” the boy was saying. “She could, Lucy.”

And the little girl said gravely:

“You ask her, then.”

They both fixed solemn eyes on Helen’s face, and she smiled at them.

“What is it, Ernest?” she demanded.

“Lucy says you can’t, but you can, can’t you?” responded Ernest in the
voice which so exactly suited his name.

“What can’t I do?”

The little boy threw a reproachful glance at his sister.

“I say you can,” he exclaimed.

“Well, what can I do?”

The children looked at each other, and then again at Helen.

“It is so hot,” said Lucy piteously, “and we are so very dreadfully
thirsty, and he says”—with an accusing glance, “he says you could magic
it away, like you magicked away the being frightened when the fire
roared so loud, and we thought we should be all burnt up. But I said if
you could magic it away, then why didn’t you?”

Helen felt the most absurd inclination to burst into tears. If she
could, why didn’t she? She felt as if she had been weighed and found
wanting.

“It has to be a very strong magic,” she began, and Ernest’s face fell.

“Can’t you make the strong sort?” he asked, and Helen knitted her brows
and said:

“Yes, if I try very hard.”

Lucy edged nearer.

“Oh, please try,” she whispered. Her lips trembled. “I don’t want to
cry, because it makes you so much more thirsty, but if there isn’t a
magic soon, I’m afraid I shall cry, I’m really ’fraid I shall.”

“There’s going to be magic,” said Helen quickly.

She scrambled on to her knees, and got up very cautiously, stooping so
as to avoid exposing herself. Then with a quick swing of her body, she
stepped on to a big stone, and looked out over the wall. The sun’s heat
struck her like a blow, as her eyes went out to the flat, dusty plain
that reflected so much light and heat. To the left lay an arid space,
bare and blinding in the sunlight, but away on the right there brooded
the strange mirage which she looked for. Almost daily now it mocked
these weary prisoners with its visions of green trees which they might
not reach, and soft dim shade which would never fall on them again.

Helen lifted her head recklessly, and a bullet went past her cheek. The
air which it stirred beat like a wave of fire against the parched skin.

“Get down, what are you doing!” called a man’s voice angrily, and Helen
dropped again to her old place.

“It is there,” she said, nodding.

“Oh, what?”

“I’ll tell you. I thought it would be there.”

“Oh, what, what?”

“The enchanted forest,” said Helen in a thrilling voice.

“Really—truly?”

“Yes, ever so really truly.”

“Where?”

“Right over there.” She waved her hand. “I saw it quite plain. It looked
lovely—all green, with high, high trees and a little blue sparkling
lake, and singing birds in the bushes, and wet blue violets to walk
upon. Oh, they smell so good, and the white May hangs down till it
touches them, the branches are so heavy with flowers.”

“I have seen May, but Lucy hasn’t,” said Ernest in a superior tone, and
the little girl fretted:

“Does it smell good? I’ve forgotten what nice things smell like.”

“Oh, no—just think.” Helen breathed the heavy, tainted air, but her
voice carried conviction with it.

“Just think. All the sweet-smelling things in the whole world live in
the enchanted forest. Lilac, and lilies, and sweetbriar, and myrtle
trees, and down amongst the violets there are balm, and thyme, and very
sweet lavender bushes. And there’s a dew on them like the baby
beginnings of a rainbow. I do think we might take off our shoes and
stockings, so as to feel it all cool and lovely on our feet.”

“Mine’s off,” said Lucy.

“And so are mine.”

The tattered edge of Helen’s dark grey skirt disclosed a bare brown
ankle.

“I made a present of my stockings to Mr. Ash yesterday, and what do you
think he wanted them for? To fill up with bullets and fire at the enemy.
I am sure my stockings never did think they would live to be fired out
of a gun. I hope it won’t make them proud.”

“You can’t be proud if you are in bits,” said Ernest, with the dogmatism
of early youth.

But Helen replied that it all depended upon how you were made.

“Now, my left stocking was quite horribly proud—that was its
disposition—and jealous too. It wanted to be a right-foot stocking.”

“How did you know it wasn’t one?” asked Lucy.

“I didn’t. They got mixed when they were babies, and no one ever, ever
knew the truth, and now they are in bits, and no one ever will know, but
I don’t believe even being in bits will keep the left-hand stocking from
being proud.”

“Oh!” said both the children, and Ernest made a gentle correction:

“Left foot—not left hand.”

“Of course,” said Helen very gravely, “I meant left foot”; and she
continued to talk nonsense whilst the children listened and were
magicked out of three parts of their suffering.

The interminable day passed through an hour of strange sunset splendour
into night, and then the little company crawled out of their trench, and
lay down in the open, where the air stirred a little and sleep might
visit them.

The day’s allowance of food was about half a pint of split peas and
flour, which was served to all alike, and could be made into a sort of
gruel. The day’s allowance of water cost more than one man’s life in
every day. Even the wounded and the children had to endure the extremest
pangs of thirst for hours at a stretch, for the well was the enemy’s
most constant mark, and even at night they fired upon it continually.

Helen never drank her scanty portion without remembering King David and
the water from the well of Bethlehem which is beside the gate, poured
out before the Lord, because, he said, “Is not this the blood of men
that went in jeopardy of their lives?”

One day Helen woke in the hour before the dawn. Every limb ached from
the day’s cramped confinement and the contact with the hard, sunbaked
ground at night. She rose, stretching herself, and began to walk up and
down.

Overhead the stars were still bright against the blue-black arch of the
sky, but gradually they grew dim, and the blue turned slowly to a faint
misty grey.

Helen walked to and fro, moving softly, so as to disturb no one who
could sleep. She felt a new restlessness which she could not explain.

Fifteen days of siege were past, and how many more were to come? She
wondered how long their scanty food would last. Yesterday a rumour had
gone round that a relieving force was close at hand. Helen tried to
realise what it would mean if this were true. Perhaps it was true.
Perhaps to-morrow relief would come. She stared at the eastern sky, and
saw how the darkness thinned and a faint flesh-coloured tinge spread
upwards, whilst all along the horizon, the grey sky turned to a pale,
clear, lily green.

Perhaps relief would come to-day. Perhaps it would come before the
hidden sun had reached its terrible noon. Helen turned away. The fierce
continued courage of the last fortnight, would it outlive relief and a
return to the ordinary conditions of life? She felt as if the natural
terror of death had changed into a sharper terror of living.

Life was a hard matter. She saw hers stretch before her unendurably grey
and desolate, and she had a moment’s passionate envy of the dead who lay
in the well beyond the unfinished barracks. Only yesterday she had heard
an Irishwoman pray in an anguish against the pains of death, but they
ceased and had an end. How long—how long were the pains of life?

A dizziness came upon her as she looked ahead along the unmeasured
years.

Far away a jackal called, and farther still another answered him. Then
they fell silent, and through the silence came a faint sound. Helen
stopped in her walk and listened. She saw a little stir run along the
wall, and the man nearest her reached for his loaded musket. Through the
listening hush came the clatter of hoofs, very sharp and clear, on the
hard, parched ground. The noise of them jarred the stillness of that
hour of truce. They came with a headlong rush, and a smell of stirred-up
dust rose in the heavy air. The dim light yielded the flying vision of a
horse, spurred to his utmost speed by some half-seen rider.

An outcry ran along the wall. The man near Helen fired. Two other shots
rang out.

Then out of the morning dusk came a changing shape that seemed to
scatter the dust and the darkness as it came. An English voice shouted,
and the horse rose at the wall, and came crashing down with a bullet in
its shoulder, whilst the rider flung himself clear, with a laugh and a
cry of:

“Don’t shoot! Don’t shoot!”

There was a clamour then, and a crowding. Helen was pressed up against
the wall. She leaned there, both hands on her heart, shaking from head
to foot.

That shout had first stopped her pulses, and then set them
racing—racing. A spasm of incredulous joy held her. It was a moment
before she could push her way through the questioning men. The dawn was
coming fast. The sunrise flowered in palest rose and amber. All the grey
was gone.

Helen looked and saw Richard Morton’s face cut clear against the sky. It
was very hard and thin and brown, but she could see the blue of his
eyes. His black hair was covered by a native turban, and his black brows
made a thin straight line.

“I’m Morton, Deputy Commissioner of Urzeepore,” he was saying, and a man
took hold of his hand and wrung it.

“You, Dampier? Do you know if my wife—if Miss Wilmot—” said Richard’s
voice, a hard steady voice.

Something in Helen Wilmot answered to the steadiness in that voice. She
took a grip of herself and moved a pace forward. The men who were
between her and Richard Morton fell away, and she came through them, and
rested her hand on Dick’s arm. “Adela is quite safe,” she said, and so
they stood for a moment and each looked the other in the face.




                              CHAPTER XVII
                 HOW THE NANA SAHIB SWORE BY THE GANGES


The Rajput’s word is a rock, but the false Mahratta’s faith
Is the sand that shifts, and the dust that drifts, as the maker of
  Proverbs saith.

On the twenty-fifth of June, at sunset, the Nana Sahib held council. He
had pitched a kingly camp under the trees of the Savada house, and the
soft wavering shadows of their leafage lay slantwise across the white
outer coverings of the many tents. Inside the Nana’s tent, there was a
riot of luxury. There were Persian carpets and wonderful embroidered
silks. There was goldwork from Delhi, and carving from Kashmir. A low
wide native bed with silver legs was heaped with cushions of orange and
vermilion. Amongst the cushions sat the Nana, cross-legged, with a
string of pearls like hazel-nuts about his thick neck. They circled it
three times, with the skin showing yellow between them, and then fell
into his lap, and were lost amongst the folds of the white muslin which
he wore.

The long tube of his hookah lay unheeded beside him, the ivory
mouthpiece resting on a cracked china plate.

Every now and then he reached out his hand to a small silver tray at his
elbow, and took up one of the little packets of leaf-enfolded betel-nut
which were piled upon it. His jaws worked with a slow, continuous
motion, and the bright red juice stained his lips. Every now and then a
drop ran out at the corner of his mouth, and dripped upon his fine white
shirt, for in the past weeks he had taken much opium, and there was a
haze about him.

He stared half sullenly through it. The west was reddening to the sun’s
descent. The air was hot and heavy. The Nana looked towards the sunset
and frowned. There—yes, there had stood the hundred and seventeen
Englishmen from Furruckabad. There they had stood. There they had died.
He had had high words with Bala, his brother, about those Englishmen,
but Bala had had his way. They had all died—some with a groan and some
with a curse, some with a prayer and some quite silently. The dust
covered their blood, and their wives and their little ones sat in
slavery in the Savada house close by. Once in a while the Nana would
send for one of them that she might sit for an hour or so and grind the
corn for his horses’ food. Such was the usage of conquerors; and was he
not a conqueror and a king?

He fell to twisting the ring with the great ruby in it, which he always
wore. The sunlight slanted across the month of the tent, and a faint
breeze just stirred the looped-up curtains that hung there. They had the
colour of spilled wine, and they were covered all over with an
embroidery of silver stars and little golden fish.

Bala, the Nana’s brother, sat by the right-hand curtain, with Tantia
Topee beside him. Bala leaned on a crimson cushion. He had a long dagger
across his knees, and his small, delicate fingers played with it all the
time, following the fine gold tracery that was bitten into the steel.
The sunlight followed it too, and shone on the ruby velvet scabbard,
which lay on the carpet’s edge.

Bala’s look was alert. He sat well in view, and a man who was passing
the tent salaamed to him, bending his whole body in abasement. And the
Nana Sahib’s heavy, sullen face grew heavier and more sullen still. The
look of easy good-nature was gone from it, never to return.

Already the terror which haunts the Oriental despot had touched him with
its finger. It was the sharpest terror of all, the terror of his own
kin, and it watched beside him in the noon and in the midnight, and
walked in all his ways from dawn to sunset. He looked at his brother
Bala, and remembered that once already he had been forced to yield to
him.

The Englishmen had been butchered, and the army—the army had applauded.
Since then they had grown restive. Only two days ago they had been
beaten back from the entrenchment with great loss. Now they murmured
openly. They said they would attack no more. There was talk of going to
Delhi. There were rumours of a mutiny within a mutiny. And Bala smiled,
and sat with his dagger on his knees, whilst all men bowed themselves to
the earth before him.

Dhundoo Punth made an abrupt movement with the hand that wore the ruby,
and spoke in a thick voice:

“They are devils, these English. They will never surrender. Why do we
sit here and wait?”

Azimullah stroked his beard. His keen glances had been going from one
brother to the other. He noted now that Tantia Topee scarcely turned his
head to listen to the Nana’s words. Bala had some plan, he knew that,
and he had begun to wonder whether the time had come to change masters.
He was not sure, and until he was sure he would do nothing.

“Why do we sit and wait?” repeated Dhundoo Punth heavily.

“The army asks that,” said Tantia, and Jowala Pershad, the new commander
of the forces, nodded, and echoed the words. He sat opposite to Tantia,
and they looked at one another. The Nana seemed to rouse himself. He met
Azimullah’s eyes for a moment, and began to say his lesson as he had
learned it.

“Why should we kill our men? Why should we sit here and wait any longer?
Let us offer them terms. Let us say that we will give them boats, that
they may go down to Allahabad. They will accept gladly, since there is
no longer food enough for the half of them.”

“He whom we caught yesterday, Shepherd, the half-caste, he said there
was food enough, and to spare,” said Bala.

“Yes, and he looked like a starved jackal,” returned Azimullah.

“That is true,” said Jowala Pershad. “Also, the women servants who were
taken three days before, they said that there was no food and no water,
and that the women and the children died like the flies die when the
cold comes. It was on that account that they tried to escape. Their
words were true. If they had not been very much afraid, they would not
have dared to come out of the entrenchment. Only a very great fear will
cause a woman to forget a lesser fear.”

“And, therefore,” said the Nana, “therefore I say they will all come out
gladly if we say that we will send them to Allahabad.”

Baba Bhut looked up in his heavy way. He had grown stouter, and his
hands, which were folded before him, rested on roll upon roll of flesh.

“Ai, brother,” he said, “will you then let them go? What profit is there
in letting them go?”

Bala flashed him a glance of contempt, but Azimullah said politely:

“I do not think that the lord’s meaning is such.”

Tantia Topee moved impatiently.

“We will let them go,” he broke in. “Oh, yes, we will let them go to
hell.”

A laugh went round. Baba Bhut looked stupidly from one to the other.
Then he took up the mouthpiece of his hookah, and began to smoke,
swaying a little as he did so, with half-closed eyes. Bala shifted his
position, turning towards his brother. The movement brought his head and
shoulders into strong relief against the glare of the sunset.

“They will not come out,” he said.

“And why do you say that, lord?” asked Azimullah.

Dhundoo Punth leaned forward, spat a mouthful of the red betel juice
into a golden spittoon, and said loudly:

“Why should they not come out? Do they wish to die? Do they wish to stay
until they can count all their ribs, until even the vultures and the
jackals will refuse them? I say they starve, and if they were not
devils, they would have surrendered long ago. Did we not say to the army
that the entrenchment should be theirs in three days? Have not twenty
days gone by? Will the men go to the assault again?”

He looked at Jowala Pershad, who cast down his eyes.

“If the army will not go in and take them, then I say, I will bring them
out, and deliver them to the army. We will order boats. And we will
promise them food and a safe-conduct to Allahabad. They will come out
gladly. Then, when they are come to the boats, we will kill the men and
save the women and children alive. These are good words.”

Bala smiled sneeringly.

“What is this that you say? If any are killed, then all should be
killed; where there is a woman, there are sharp eyes and a long tongue.
Let them all be killed. Then we shall have peace.”

“That is true,” observed Tantia, and Azimullah nodded, and quoted the
poet Sa’adi:

“‘It is not wise to put out the fire and keep alive one spark, or to
crush the serpent and to feed the serpent’s young.’”

The Nana’s eyes flashed.

“Who is the master?” he exclaimed angrily. “If I say I will save the
women, then I will save them. If I give the men into your hands, have I
not done more than the whole army could accomplish?”

“They will not come out. They will not believe,” said Bala, playing with
his unsheathed dagger.

Dhundoo Punth spat again, and waved his hands. Bala had killed a
hundred, he would kill a thousand men. Then the army would see who was
their lord. Then he would go to Bithoor in triumph, and take his seat
upon the throne of the Peishwas. Then the Brahmins would affix the
sacred tilka to his forehead, and the army, drunk with slaughter,
enriched with silver coins and golden armlets, would acclaim him as
their king.

“They will believe,” he said. “I will swear to them upon the Ganges.
Upon the burning oil I will swear that they shall go down to Allahabad
in safety.”

Baba Bhut withdrew the mouthpiece of his hookah and stared into his
brother’s face.

Jowala Pershad stood up, salaaming.

“Maharaja, would you break the oath upon the Ganges?” he said, and
Azimullah covered his mouth with his hand, as he too looked at the Nana
and waited for his reply.

The Nana threw out his hands as if pushing something tangible away.

“What is an oath to an enemy!” he exclaimed.

Jowala Pershad salaamed again.

“Maharaja, if the troopers hear that you have sworn by the Ganges and
afterwards that oath is broken, their minds will be troubled. They will
expect some great misfortune—and when an army expects misfortune,
misfortune will surely come.”

The Nana’s manner became suave.

The smile that had caused generals and commissioners to trust him parted
his stained lips.

“You will tell those whom it may concern that this is a sacred cause,”
he said softly. “To annihilate an enemy, any means are lawful. That is
the creed. At such a time as this, a hundred artifices may be employed
and any oath may be taken. Is it not to save the lives of Brahmins? This
is a lawful expedient. These are true words. Also, when it is finished,
and these insolent English are blotted out, I will give presents. To
every man a rupee and a golden bangle. Tell them that this is my order.
Ask them also what kind of face they will show to God, if they are
guilty of any neglect in this matter. Do they wish to wait idly until
the English send more regiments from England? Do they desire to be made
Christians of? Tell them all these words.”

He gave a sweep of his hand, and said:

“You have my leave to depart.”

Then as Jowala Pershad and Tantia Topee went out, he took another of the
little green folded packets of betel-nut and crushed it between his
strong and even teeth. The red juice ran out and dripped upon his hand.

In the dim and failing light which came all red from the crimson west,
the stains upon hand and dress showed prophetic, like the stains of
half-dried blood.




                             CHAPTER XVIII
                          
