I have broken down in health lately—nothing serious; but a nurse lasts
only so long, and during the last five years I have been under a double
strain. Caring for the sick has been only a part of it. The other?

Well, put it like this: The world’s pretty crowded after all. We are
always touching elbows, and there is never a deviation from the usual,
the normal, that is not felt all the way down the line. Stand a row of
dominoes on edge and knock down the end one. Do you see? And generally
somebody goes down for fair. We do not know much about it among the
poor; they have to manage the best way they can, and maybe they are
blunted—some of them. They have not the time for mental agony. And the
thing works both ways. Their lapses are generally obvious—cause and
result; motive and crime.

In the lower walks of life people are more elemental. But get up higher.
Crime exists there; but, instead of a passion, it is a craft. In its
detection it is brain against brain, not intellect against brute force
or instinct. If anything gives, it is the body.

Illness follows crime—it does not always follow the criminal; but
somebody goes down for fair. There is a breach in the wall. The doctor
and the clergyman come in then. One way and another they get the story.
There is nothing hidden from them. They get it, but they do not want it.
They cannot use it. The clergyman’s vows and the medical man’s legal
status forbid their using their knowledge; but, where a few years ago
there were only two, now each crisis, mental or physical, finds
three—the trained nurse.

Do you see what I mean? The thing is thrust at her. She does not want
the story either. Her business is bodies, doctors’ orders, nourishments;
but unless she’s a fool she ends by holding the family secret in the
hollow of her hand. It worries her. She needs her hands. She gets rid of
it as soon as she can and forgets it. She is safe; the secret is safe.
Without the clergyman’s vows or the doctor’s legal status, she is as
silent as either.

That is the ethical side. That is what the nurse does. There is another
side, which is mine. The criminal uses every means against society. Why
not society against the criminal? And this is my defense. Every trained
nurse plays a game, a sort of sporting proposition—her wits against
wretchedness. I play a double game—the fight against misery and the
fight against crime—like a man running two chessboards at once.

I hated it in the beginning. It has me by the throat now. It is the
criminal I find absorbing. And I have learned some things—not new, of
course: that to be honest because one is untempted is to be strong with
the strength of a child; that the great virtues often link arms with the
great vices; that the big criminal thinks big thoughts.

I have had my chance to learn and I know. A nurse gets under the very
skin of the soul. She finds a mind surrendered, all the crooked little
motives that have fired the guns of life revealed in their pitifulness.
Even now, sometimes, it hurts me to look back.

                 *        *        *        *        *

It is five years since George L. Patton was shot in the leg during a
raid on the Hengst Place, in Cherry Run. He is at the head of one of the
big private agencies now, but he was a county detective then; and Hengst
shot him from a cupboard. Well, that does not matter particularly,
except that Mr. Patton was brought to the hospital that night and I was
given the case.

He took it very calmly—said he guessed he would rest awhile, now he had
the chance, and slept eighteen hours without moving. I made caps, I
remember, and tried to plan what I would do when I left the house. My
time was about up and I dreaded private duty. I had been accustomed to
the excitement of a hospital, and there was something horrible to me in
the idea of spending the rest of my life in darkened rooms, with the
doctor’s daily visit for excitement and a walk round the block for
recreation.

I gave Mr. Patton his dinner that night and we had our first clash. He
looked at the soup and toast, and demanded steak and onions.

“I’m sorry,” I said. “You’re to have light diet for a day or two. We
don’t want any fever from that leg.”

“Leg! What has my leg to do with my stomach? I want a medium steak. I’ll
do without the onions if I have to.”

“Doctor’s orders,” I said firmly. “You may have an egg custard if you
want it, or some cornstarch.”

We had a downright argument and he took the soup. When he had finished,
he looked up at me and smiled.

“I don’t like you,” he said, “but darned if I don’t respect you, young
woman. Absolute obedience to orders is about the hardest thing in the
world to get. And now send for that fool interne and we’ll have a steak
for breakfast.”

Well, he did; and pretty soon he was getting about everything the
hospital could give him. He was a politician, of course, and we depended
on our state appropriation for support; but he got nothing from me
without an order. He always said he did not like me, but I think he did
after a while. I could beat him at chess, for one thing.

“You have a good head, Miss Adams,” he said to me one day when he was
almost well. “Are you going to spend the rest of your life changing
pillowslips and shaking down a thermometer?”

“I’ve thought of institutional work; I dare say I’d be changing nurses
and shaking down internes,” I said with some bitterness.

“How old are you?—not, of course, for publication.”

“Twenty-nine.”

“Any family?”

“The nearest relatives I have are two old aunts, in the country.”

He was silent for a minute or two. Then: “I’ve been thinking of
something; I may take it up with you later. There’s only one
objection—you’re rather too good-looking.”

“I’m not really good-looking at all,” I admitted frankly. “I have too
high a forehead. It’s the cap.”

“Like ’em high!” said Mr. Patton.

I made an eggnog and brought it in to him. He was sitting propped in a
chair, and when I gave him the glass, he smiled up at me. He had never
attempted any sentimentalities with me, which is more than can be said
of the usual convalescent male over forty.

“It isn’t all the cap,” he said.

That afternoon he tried to learn from me something about the other
patients on the floor; but of course I would tell him nothing. He seemed
rather irritated and tried to bully me, but I was firm.

“Don’t be childish, Mr. Patton!” I said at last. “We don’t tell about
other patients. If you want to find out, get one of your men in here.”
To my surprise he laughed.

“Good girl!” he said. “You’ve stood a cracking test and come through A
one. You’ve got silence and obedience to orders, and you have a brain.
I’ve mentioned the forehead. Now I’m going to make my proposition. Has
it ever occurred to you that every crisis, practically, among the better
classes, finds a trained nurse on hand?”

“Cause or result?”

“Result, of course. Upset the ordinary routine of a family, have a
robbery, an elopement or a murder, and somebody goes to bed, with a
trained nurse in attendance. Fact, isn’t it?” I admitted it. “It’s a
fault of the tension people live under,” he went on. “Any extra strain
and something snaps. And who is it who is in the very bosom of the
family? You know and I know. The nurse gets it all—the intimate details
that the police miss; the family disputes, the inner motives; the—you
go to your room and think it over. And when you decide, I have a case
for you.”

I tried to object, but he cut me short; so I put the thermometer in his
mouth and managed to tell him how I felt.

“It just doesn’t seem honest,” I finished. “I’m in a position of
confidence and I violate it. That’s the truth. A nurse is supposed to
work for good; if she has any place, it’s an uplift—if you can see what
I mean. And to go into a house and pry out its secrets——”

He jerked the thermometer out wrathfully.

“Uplift!” he said. “Isn’t it uplifting to place a criminal where he
won’t injure society? If you can’t see it that way, we don’t want you.
Now go away and think about it.”

I went up to my room and stood in front of the mirror, which is where I
do most of my thinking. I talk things over with myself, I suppose. And I
saw the lines beside my ears that said, “Twenty-nine, almost thirty!”
And I thought of institutional work, with its daily round of small
worries, its monotonous years, with my soul gradually shrinking and
shaping itself to fit a set of rules. And over against it all I put Mr.
Patton’s offer.

I recall it all—the color that came to my face at the chance to use my
head instead of only a trained obedience to orders; the prospect of
adventure; the chance to pit my wits against other wits and perhaps win
out. I put on one of the new caps and went down to Mr. Patton’s room.

“I’ll do it!” I said calmly.

                 *        *        *        *        *

My time was up two days later. Mr. Patton was practically well and gave
me my instructions while I helped him pack his bag.

“Do the things the other nurses do,” he advised. “Go to the Nurses’
Home, but don’t register for cases right away. Make an excuse that
you’re tired and need a few days’ rest. When I telephone you, I shall
call myself Doctor Patton—not that I pretend to do any medical work,
but for extra caution.”

“You said you had a case for me.”

“I had, but it isn’t big enough. I want you for something worth while,
and it will be along soon. It’s about due.”

“And—just one thing, Mr. Patton: I will take my first case on trial. If
I find that I am doing harm and not good by revealing the secrets of a
family, I shall give it up. A doctor would be answerable to the law for
doing the things I am about to do.”

“You have no legal status.”

“I have a moral status,” I replied grimly, and he found no answer to
that.

Before he left, however, he said something that rather cheered me.

“You will never be required to tell anything you learn, except what is
directly pertinent to the matter in hand,” he said. “I would not give
such latitude to any other woman I know—but you have brains and you
will know what we want.”

“I cannot work in the dark—I must know what you are after.”

“We will lay all our cards on your table face up. I wouldn’t insult you
by asking you to play blindfolded. And remember this, Miss Adams—it’s
as high a duty to explore and heal the moral sores of a community as it
is to probe and dress, for instance, the wound of a man who has been
shot in the leg.”

Two days later I left the hospital and took a room at the Nurses’ Home
he had recommended. He would arrange with the secretary, he said, that I
should be called for any case on which he wished me placed.

I put in a bad week. One of the staff of the hospital located me and
called me to a case. I got out of it by saying I needed a few days’
rest, and he rang off irritably. Then, on the third day, I had my
handbag cut off my arm in a department store, and went home depressed
and ill-humored.

“You’re a fine detective!” I said to myself in the mirror, “You’re not
so clever as Mr. Patton thinks, and if you’re honest, you’ll go and tell
him so.”

I think I should have done so—I was so abashed; but our arrangement was
that I should not try to see him under any circumstances. There was to
be no suspicion of me in any way. He would see me when necessary. I
still had the strap of my bag, which had been left hanging to my arm;
and, as a constant reminder, I fastened it to the frame of my mirror.
Even now, when the department gives me its best cases, and when I have
been successful enough to justify a little pride, I look at that bit of
leather and become meek and normal again.


                               CHAPTER II

In spite of Mr. Patton’s promise I went on my first case for him without
any preparation. Miss Shinn, the secretary, asked me if I would take a
case that evening.

“For whom?”

She was turning over the pages of her ledger in the parlor-office of the
Home and she did not look up.

“A Doctor Patton telephoned,” she said. “I believe he had spoken to you
of the case.”

My throat tightened, but, after all, this was what I had been waiting
for.

“Do you know what sort of case it is?” I asked. “I’m not doing
obstetrics, you know.”

“It is not an obstetric case. You are to take a taxicab at eight o’clock
tonight.”

Miss Shinn was a heavy, rather bilious brunette, who rarely smiled; but
I caught an amused twinkle as she glanced up. Quite suddenly I liked
her. Clearly she knew what I was about to do and she did not disapprove;
and yet she was a very ethical person. I gathered that she would be very
hard on a nurse who wore frivolous uniforms, or gossiped about her
patients, or went to the theater with a doctor, or cut rates. And yet
she was indulgent to me—she was more than indulgent. I was certain,
somehow, from the very quiver of her wide back as she marked me
“Engaged” on her register, that she was wildly interested and curious.
It gave me confidence.

At eight o’clock that evening I went downstairs with my suitcase and
ordered a taxicab. No word had come from Mr. Patton and I had nothing
but a name and address to go by. The name—we will call it G. W. March.
It was not, of course. You would know the name at once if I told it. The
address was a street fronting one of the parks—a good neighborhood, I
knew—old families, substantial properties, traditions, all that sort of
thing. Certainly not a place to look for crime.

As I waited for the cab, I searched the newspapers for something to
throw light on my new enterprise. There was nothing at all except a
notice that Mr. and Mrs. George W. March had returned from their summer
home on the Maine coast a few days before and had opened their city
home.

It looked like a robbery. I was vaguely disappointed. I had it all
worked out in five minutes—Mrs. March in bed, collapsed; missing
pictures or jewels; house full of trusted servants; and myself trying to
solve the mystery between an alcohol rub and a dose of bromide. I hated
to go on with it, but I was ashamed not to. I said to myself savagely
that I was not a quitter, and got into the taxicab.

The March case was not a robbery, however. It was, strictly speaking,
not a criminal case at all. It concerned the disappearance of a girl,
and in some ways it was a remarkable mystery—particularly baffling
because for so long it seemed to be a result without a cause. How we
found the cause at last; how we located the family in Brickyard Road and
solved the puzzle of the buckled bag; how we learned the identity of the
little old woman with the jet bonnet, and her connection with the garden
door—all this makes up the record of my first case.

The buckled bag is lying on my desk now. It is a shabby, quaint old bag,
about eight inches long, round-bellied, brown with wear. It still
contains what was in it when Mr. Patton found it: a cotton handkerchief,
marked with a J; two keys—one a house-door key, the other a flat one; a
scrawled note in a soiled lavender envelope; a newspaper clipping of a
sale of blankets.

It is one of my most painful memories that for a month I examined that
newspaper cutting frequently and that I failed entirely to grasp the
significance of the reverse side. We all have a mental blind spot. That
was mine.

Clare March was missing. That was my case: to find her, or to help to
find her, was my task at first. Later it grew more complicated. I had
not thought Mr. Patton would violate our agreement about working in the
dark and my confidence was justified. At the first corner he hailed the
machine and got in.

“Fine work!” he said. “You’re a dependable person, Miss Adams.”

“I’m rather a scared person.”

“Nonsense! And don’t take yourself or this affair too seriously. Do your
durnedest—‘Angels could do no more.’”

“Is it something stolen?”

“A small matter of a daughter. It’s a queer thing, Miss Adams. I’ll tell
you about it.” He asked the driver to go slowly. “Time us to get there
at eight thirty,” he said. “Now, Miss Adams, here are the facts: You are
going to the home of George March, the banker—you probably know the
name—Mrs. March is your patient. She’s not ill; she’s hysterical and
frightened—that’s all. It’s not a hard case.”

“It’s the hardest sort of a case.”

“Well, you like work,” he replied cheerfully. “The family has been away
for four months. Until a month ago, Clare, the daughter, was with them.
One month ago, on the third of September, Clare, who is an only child,
twenty years old, left the country place in Maine for home. She traveled
alone, leaving her maid in the country. The city house had not been
closed; a housekeeper and two maids were there through the summer. She
was expected at the house for breakfast on the morning of the fourth.
She did not arrive—or, rather, she did not go home. She reached the
city safely. We have traced her into the railroad station and out
again—and that has been about all. She’s not been seen since.”

“Perhaps she has eloped.”

“Possibly; but the man she is engaged to is in the city, almost frantic.
Besides, there is more than I have told you. We know that she took a
taxicab at the station; that before she got in, she met and accepted a
small parcel from a blond young man, rather shabbily dressed; and that
they seemed to be having an argument, though a quiet one. We have found
the taxicab she took, and a shop where she bought a couple of books—a
Browning and a recent novel. From the bookshop she went to a department
store. There she dismissed the taxicab. We have traced her in the store
to a department where she bought a pair of blankets. They made a large
parcel, but she took it with her. From that time we have lost her
absolutely.”

“The third of September, and this is the fifth of October—almost five
weeks!”

“Exactly,” he said dryly. “That’s why I’ve sent for you. We have tried
all the usual things; we’ve combed the city fine—and we are just where
we started. If we could make a noise about it, we should have some
chance. Set the general public looking—that’s the way to get
information. You get a million clues worth nothing, and out of the lot
one that helps. But you know these people. They won’t listen to any
publicity. They have only one argument—if she is dead, publicity won’t
help her, and if she is alive, it will hurt her.”

I was conscious of a vague disappointment. In the last half hour I had
keyed myself to the highest pitch. I was seeing red, really—nothing but
the bloodiest sort of crime would have come up to my expectation.
Certainly nothing less than a murder had been in my thoughts.

“I don’t see how I can help,” I said, a bit resentfully. “You’ve had
five weeks and got nowhere,” I continued, “and if you are going to ask
me to put myself in her place, and try to imagine what could have
happened, and to follow her mental processes, I can’t do it. I can’t
imagine myself idle and rich and twenty. I can’t imagine taking a
taxicab when a streetcar would do, or having a lady’s maid——”

Mr. Patton laid a hand on my arm.

“Did you ever hear Lincoln’s story of the little Mississippi steamboat
with a whistle so large that every time they blew it the boat stopped?
. . . No? Well, no matter. I don’t want you to put yourself in her
place; I want a little inside help—that’s all. There’s a curious story
behind this case, Miss Adams. We’ve only scratched the top. Get in there
and get their confidence. They won’t talk to me—too much family pride.
Get the mother to talk. That’s part of her trouble—family pride and
bottling up her emotions. I can’t get close to any of them. After five
weeks Mrs. March still calls me Mr. Peyton.” He smiled ruefully.

“She bought blankets! That’s curious, isn’t it?”

“It’s almost ridiculous under the circumstances. You may not be able to
imagine yourself twenty, and so on, but you can certainly get your wits
to work on those blankets. If she had bought a revolver now—but
blankets!”

“She was engaged, you say? Were there any other men who—who liked her?”

“Half a dozen, I believe—all accounted for.”

“Any neurasthenic tendency?”

“In the half dozen? I dare say yes, when she announced her engagement;
in the girl—I think not. She was temperamental rather. The picture I
get of her is of an attractive and indulged young woman, engaged to a
man she seems to have cared about. And yet, with all the gods smiling,
she disappears.”

I sat thoughtful. The cab was moving along beside the park now. We were
almost there.

“She may be dead,” I said at last.

“She may, indeed.”

He asked the driver to stop and got out, with a quick handshake.

“Now go to it!” he said. “Go out for a breath of air between seven and
eight each evening, and—keep your eyes open. I have a hunch that you’ll
get this thing—beginner’s luck.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

The March house was an old-fashioned, rather stately residence. Instead
of a drawing room upstairs, there was a reception room opening into the
lower hall. Behind that was a music room and, still farther back, a
library.

At the very rear of the lower floor was a dining room, quite the largest
room in the house, extending as it did the entire width of the building.
In it was a large bay window looking onto a city garden, and in the bay,
shut off by tall plants, was a small table, where the family breakfasted
and even, when alone, sometimes dined.

A long flight of stairs, uncarpeted, led to the second floor. On that
first evening I got merely the vaguest outlines of the house, of course.
It was silent, immaculate, rather heavy. I had a glimpse of two men in
the library talking—one middle-aged, rather stout; the other much
younger. Over everything hung the hush of suspense—that hush which
accompanies birth and death and great trouble.

A parlor maid admitted me and led me upstairs to my room.

“Mr. March would like to see you in the library when you have taken off
your things,” she said.

I changed quickly into my uniform—all white, of course, with
rubber-soled white shoes. With the familiar garb I was myself again; I
could face anything, do anything. Clothes are queer things.

Mr. March turned when he heard me at the door and rose.

“I am Miss Adams, the nurse,” I said. “Do you wish to see me?”

“Will you come in, Miss Adams? This is Mr. Plummer. Have you seen Mrs.
March?”

“No; I thought it best to see you first.”

“I am glad of that. Perhaps I ought to tell you—we are in great
trouble, Miss Adams. Our—our only daughter has gone away, disappeared.
It is over a month since—” He stopped.

“That is very terrible,” I said. I liked his face.

“We wish absolute secrecy—of course I need hardly say that; but you
understand Mrs. March is highly nervous. I—I hope you can quiet her.
What we want you to do is to be as cheerful and optimistic as possible.
You know what I mean. She will talk to you about Clare—about Miss
March. Reassure her if you can. Be certain that Miss March will be found
soon.”

“I will do what I can. Has the doctor left any orders?”

“Very few. She is to be soothed. There’s a bromide, I believe. Her maid
has the instructions.”

There was nothing for me in that glimpse of the two men most nearly
concerned—two gentlemen unaffectedly distressed and under great strain
in a quiet, well-ordered house. It looked like poor material, from Mr.
Patton’s point of view. Mr. March followed me into the hall. “If you
need anything, let me know, Miss Adams. Or will you speak to the
servants?”

“I can tell better later on. If I am going to be up tonight—and I think
I’d better be, this first night anyhow—I should like a lunch; something
cold on a tray.”

“Do you wish it upstairs?”

I hesitated. There was a picture in a silver frame on the library
table—I thought it probably one of the missing girl. I wanted to see
it. “It will be a change to come down.”

“Very well,” he said. “There will be a supper left in the dining room.
There is a small table there in the bay window. It will be more
comfortable—not quite so lonely.”

“Thank you,” I replied and started upstairs. Opposite the library door I
glanced in. I had been right about the picture. Mr. Plummer had picked
it up and was looking at it. I felt certain that he was the fiancé—a
manly-looking fellow; not very tall, but solid and dependable-looking,
with a good head and earnest eyes.

My patient was in bed—a pretty little woman in a frilly bed jacket,
with a pink light beside her. She held out a nervous hand.

“How big and strong and competent you look!” she said, and quite
unexpectedly fell to crying. I had a difficult evening. She was entirely
unstrung—must have me sit down by the bed at once and listen to the
trouble, as she called it—and as it was, indeed.

“She wouldn’t go away and leave me like this!” she said more than once.
“If you only knew her, Miss Adams—so full of character, so determined,
so gifted! And beautiful—haven’t you seen her picture in the
newspapers?”

I evaded that—I never read society news.

“And happy, too?” I said. “She must have been very happy.”

I saw a change in Mrs. March’s rather childish face.

“We thought she was, of course; but lately—I’ve remembered so many
things while I’ve been lying here. She was very strange all
summer—moody sometimes, and again so gay that she frightened me.”

“Perhaps she was gay when Mr. Plummer was there and moody when he was
away.”

“But he wasn’t there at all. That’s another thing, Miss Adams. She would
not let me ask Walter up. She—she really kept him away all summer. I
don’t believe Mr. March told the detective that—he forgot so many
things.”

She wanted me to telephone this piece of information to the police at
once, but I persuaded her to wait. I gave her an alcohol rub and a cup
of hot milk; and, finding them without effect, I took a massage vibrator
I found on her dressing table and ran it up and down her spine. She
finally relaxed with the treatment and even asked me to use it on her
face.

“I’m an old woman with all the worry,” she said apologetically. “It will
tone up the facial muscles, won’t it? And would you mind putting some
cold cream on first?”

I did not mind; and after a time she fell asleep. I was glad of a
respite. In my two hours over the bed I had accumulated many
ill-assorted bits of information. I wanted time to catalogue them in my
mind. I have the notes I made that night on one of my records:

“C. has been missing since September third; today is October fifth—a
total of thirty-two days.

“Was moody all summer—would not see Mr. Plummer, but wrote him daily.

“She had been engaged once before, to a Wilson Page, but broke
engagement. Cause of trouble not known. C. suffered much at the time.
Note—Have Mr. P. look up Wilson Page.

“C. usually undemonstrative, but rather affected when she said goodbye
to her mother. Was she planning something, unknown to them?

“But if she was planning an elopement, why did she make careful
appointments with her dressmakers and milliners? Is she more crafty than
they think, or was her decision made unexpectedly?

“She forgot her jewel case, which she always carried with her. An
inventory reveals only a part of her jewelry. She wore, when she left,
only the sapphire ring Mr. Plummer gave her. She had less than a hundred
dollars in cash.

“Wilson Page is dark. The man who met her in the station was thin and
fair.

“Her picture is on her mother’s dressing table—an attractive face:
dark-eyed, full of character, but rather wistful. A thoughtful face. Is
she living or dead? Did she go voluntarily or was she lured away? If she
went voluntarily—why?”

I looked round the handsome room where my patient slept calmly, her
petulant features relaxed and peaceful. I glanced across the hall to
Miss Clare’s room, where a light burned every evening; where an ivory
dressing set, with carved monogram, was spread on the toilet table;
where every luxury a young woman could demand had been gathered together
for her use. And I recalled the look in the face of the man downstairs
as he gazed at her picture—the tragedy in the eyes of her father. How
had she gone, and why? How and why?


                              CHAPTER III

My first night at the March house was marked by a disagreeable and
rather mystifying occurrence. I had got my patient quiet and asleep and
had had a telephone talk with the doctor by eleven.

“There is very little to do,” the doctor said. “I’ll come in in the
morning. Just keep her comfortable and cheerful. She needs someone to
talk to. Let her talk all she wants.”

I darkened the room where she lay and placed a screen in the hall
outside the door, with a comfortable chair beside it and a shaded lamp.
I had made up my mind to sit up for that one night at least. I had had
nervous cases before; and I knew that sometime between then and morning
she would waken, and that the sight of someone alert and watchful would
be a comfort.

At midnight I took off my cap, eased my hair and loosened my uniform
collar. With the neck of my dress turned in, I was fairly comfortable.
It was too early to eat. I got a book from the library and read.

At two o’clock Mrs. March was still sleeping quietly and I decided to
get my night supper, I slipped down the stairs as noiselessly as
possible. An English hall lamp was turned on in the lower hall near the
music room door, and far back in the dining room a candle light in a
wall bracket showed me where to go.

My progress in my rubber-soled shoes was practically noiseless. I made
my way along the hall back to the dining room. The room was very large,
as I have said before, paneled in oak, with a heavy fireplace and a
tapestry in an overmantel above. At one corner, beside the deep bay
window, were French doors, hung with casement cloths, evidently leading
out into the garden.

I was deliberate in all my movements, I remember. I went to the
fireplace and stood looking up at the overmantel; I found the switch
that would throw the light over my small table and thus give me a more
cheerful place to eat. The bay, walled off by palms and flowering
oleanders in tubs, was dark and rather uninviting at that hour. I made
no particular attempt to be silent, but I dare say it is a result of my
training that I make no unnecessary noise.

One of the older nurses once said to me, “When you go out on private
duty, you’ll have to fuss about your night supper generally. An orange
and a glass of milk is about what most cooks set out. Keep them up to
the mark. Insist on cold meat or sandwiches; and if there’s an alcohol
coffeepot, have them leave it ready. Coffee is your best friend at three
in the morning, and your next best is a shawl to lay over your knees.”

I was thinking of that and rather smiling when I entered the recess and
sat down at the small table. I was absolutely calm and beginning to be
mightily interested in my case. The tray was ready; and there was a
small alcohol coffeepot ready, with a box of matches beside it.

I lit the lamp and inspected the tray. The cook seemed to have been
trained by some predecessor. There was chicken, a bit of salad, brown
bread and fruit. I ate slowly while my coffee cooked—ate with an ear
toward the staircase for a sound from my patient above, and with an
occasional eye toward the garden below. A late moon showed a brick
terrace under the windows, and three steps lower was a formal design of
flower bed and path, with a small cement circle, evidently a pool in
summer. Somehow the garden looked uncanny—bushes became figures, moving
about, waving arms in the breeze. I was a distinct object from outside
as I sat in my nook; and, having eaten and waiting only for the coffee,
I stood up and extinguished the light over my head.

It was then, still standing, that I saw the hand. It was coming down the
staircase rail, moving slowly and grasping tight. It was near the music
room when I saw it first and therefore going away from me, but
descending. There was something terribly stealthy about it. It must have
been that quality in it which made me shrink back behind an oleander.
Surely there was nothing unusual in people being about in a house where
there was both illness and trouble, and yet . . .

At the foot of the stairs the hand, still on the rail, hesitated,
disappeared. A moment later there rounded the newel post a little old
woman dressed in black. She limped slightly, but for all that she came
swiftly. Every detail is stamped on my mind. I can see her now, bent
forward, something that was probably jet on her old-fashioned bonnet
catching the faint light as she came. She had on a quaint loose black
wrap—a dolman, I think they used to call them—and hanging to her arm a
shabby leather handbag.

Stealthy as her movements were, they were extremely natural. Just inside
the door she stopped, took off her spectacles and put them in a case,
which she put in her bag, and then extracted from it another pair, which
she put on. The bag was a quaint one, fastened with two straps and steel
buckles. The buckles were troublesome and she was in a hurry. More than
once she turned and looked back.

I waited for her to see me. It was an old servant, of course, come to
tell me I was wanted upstairs. I was so sure of it that I bent down and
put out my alcohol lamp. When I straightened up, she had passed the bay
and was at the French door leading to the garden. She opened the door,
went out, closed it noiselessly behind her, and was gone. I tried to see
her in the garden, but if she went that way, she was lost in the
shadows.

Even then I was rather amused than puzzled. I went over to the door and
tried it. There was a lock on it. Unless she had a key, she had locked
herself out.

I drank my coffee and went upstairs. My patient was still asleep. From
Mr. March’s room came heavy, deep breathing, telling that he was
forgetting his anxieties, for a time at least. But my book—the book I
had left on my chair in the hall—was gone!

It seemed rather absurd. I thought I might have taken it with me; and I
searched the dining room, without result. It was not to be found. I
thought of the little old housekeeper, or whatever she was—but that was
ridiculous. Besides, she had carried no book. She had a black leather
handbag over her arm. She might, of course, have put the book—what
idiocy was I thinking! The book must be somewhere about. Everyone has
laid things down and had them disappear. Sometimes they turn up and
sometimes they do not—the fourth dimension, perhaps.

                 *        *        *        *        *

I met Mr. Patton the next evening as he had arranged. He fell into step
beside me.

“How’s it going?” he asked.

“I’m learning to be a first-rate lady’s maid,” I said, rather peevishly
I am afraid. “I massage, manicure and give scalp treatments, and I’ve
got a smirk from trying to look cheerful. The experiment is a failure,
Mr. Patton. I’m not nursing, for there’s no real illness; and I’m not
helping you any. And the dreadful decorum of the house gets me. If I
were twenty, I’d run away, too. Nothing ever gets dusty or out of place.
No door ever slams. When I raise a window for air, I put in a
gauze-filled frame to keep the dirt out!”

“Has the mother talked at all?”

“All the time—about herself. I’ve learned a little, of course. The girl
has been moody—would not let Mr. Plummer, her fiancé, visit her this
summer. Seemed to be in trouble; but confided in no one. The family
relationships seem to have been all right. They adore her.”

“Have you seen many of the people who come and go about the house?
Anyone who could answer the description of the man she met at the
station—the light-haired chap?”

I considered.

“None, I am sure.”

“She and her mother got along well?”

“I think so. They were always together.”

“Is there any trace of another love affair?”

“Yes, she was engaged once before. To a Mr. Wilson Page. She broke the
engagement herself.”

That interested him. He said he would look up Mr. Page.

“And don’t be impatient,” he advised me. We had made our circuit of the
block and were in sight of the house again. “These are long cases
sometimes—but the longer the time the more sure I am that the girl is
alive. Murder will out; it’s self-limiting, like a case of measles. But
take a girl who wants to stay hidden, and if she’s intelligent, there’s
hardly any way to locate her. How many servants in the house?”

“Seven, I believe.”

“Keep an eye on them. If one of them is garrulous, let her talk. They
know more of the family than any member of it.”

This brought to my mind the curious episode of the old woman, and I told
him about it. He listened without interruption.

“When you say old, how old?”

“Seventy, I should say. She was stooped—and rather lame, but very
active.”

“You are sure you saw her? You could not possibly have been dozing?”

“I was making coffee; I don’t customarily do that in my sleep. I think
it must have been the cook. She is the only servant I have not seen.
And, as to dozing, does anybody dream a handbag with straps and
buckles?”

He put a hand on my arm impressively.

“It may interest you to know,” he said, “that the cook is a young woman;
I interviewed her myself. There is no person such as you describe in the
house!”

“But why—at three in the morning——”

“Exactly,” he said dryly. “Why? That’s for us to find out.”

He got a careful description of the old woman from me, and an account of
her exit by the French door from the dining room into the garden. He was
excited, for him, and rather triumphant.

“Now was it a mistake to put you there?” he demanded. “Of course not!
And the next thing is to find the old lady. You can help there. Tell
your story to the family. Set them to wondering and guessing. They may
place her for us at once. In this business, try direct methods whenever
you can. They save time.”

He left me at the corner and I went on alone. Just before I reached the
house, a man ran down the steps and went away rapidly. The parlor maid
was just closing the door.

“Did that gentleman inquire for me, Mimi?” I asked. “I am expecting my
brother.” I was learning!

“No, miss. He asked for Miss March.” Her eyes were wide and excited.
“When I said she was not here, he ran down the steps in a hurry.”

“My brother,” I persisted, “is short and dark. Perhaps you——”

“He asked for Miss March,” she repeated. “And, anyhow, he was thin and
lightish.” She turned to see whether any of the family might overhear.
“He’s been here before, Miss,” she confided, lowering her voice—;
“twice, in the last week. He—he isn’t one of Miss March’s friends—I
know that. And tonight he left this.”

She showed me her tray on the hall table. There was a note on it
addressed: “Miss Clare March. Important.”

“I’ll take this up to Mrs. March, Mimi,” I said. “And if he comes again,
ask him in and call me.”

“Call you, miss?”

“Call me,” I said quietly. “When he asks for Miss March, merely ask him
to come in. Then call me. Mrs. March has requested me to see him.”

I took the letter and went upstairs, but I did not give it to Mrs. March
at once. That night, while I made my coffee, I steamed open the envelope
and read the contents. It was on pale lavender paper and was as follows:

    “I implore you to see me as soon as posible. Come to the old
    place. I am up against it for sure. Don’t let this go any
    longer! It’s life or death with me!”

I made a careful copy of the note, even to the misspelled word, and
sealed it again. Mr. March was out that night—a girl had been found in
a hospital. He was always following some such forlorn hope, returning
each time a little sadder, a little grayer.

Mrs. March was unusually exacting the next morning. She wakened at dawn
with a cry and I went to her. I was sleeping on the couch at the foot of
the bed. She was sitting up, terrified, in the gray dawn. She wailed
that Clare needed her, was calling for her. She had heard her
distinctly.

“Surely you do not believe in dreams!” I said sternly.

“Not in dreams, perhaps,” she replied. She was still pallid. “But don’t
you think, Miss Adams, that people hear things in sleep that waking ears
do not catch? You know what I mean. It’s subconscious, or something.”

“It’s subnormal,” I commented, and brought her back to earth with a cup
of hot tea.

That morning I gave Mr. March the note. We were at breakfast and Mr.
Plummer had dropped in, as he usually did, on his way to his downtown
office. Mr. March read it without comment and passed it to the other
man. He was younger, less poised. I saw him change color.

“Who brought this?” he demanded.

“Mimi got it. It was left by a thin, fair-haired young man.”

They called Mimi, but she knew no more than I had told them, except for
one fact: She said the man had tried to push by her into the house and
that he had insisted that Miss March was at home. They sent the girl
out. They seemed to have no scruple about talking before me.

“It is mystifying enough,” Mr. Plummer said. “Patton ought to see it.
But it doesn’t help much. Whoever wrote that did not know that Clare
was—not at home.”

“Thin and fair-haired!” repeated Mr. March. “That’s what Patton said,
Walter—about the man at the railroad station, isn’t it?”

“Patton is a fool!”

I gathered that the idea of the fair-haired man was extremely
distasteful to him. He was almost surly.

We were sitting at the small breakfast table in the bay. I thought it a
good time to speak about the little old woman. Any lingering doubt I may
have had as to her right to be where I had seen her was dispelled by
their manner. They were abstracted at first, then interested, then
astounded.

“But, my dear young woman,” Mr. March exclaimed, “why did you not rouse
the house? And why did you wait for thirty hours before telling us?”

“It would be necessary for you to have seen her in order to understand.
It never occurred to me that she was not a member of the household—she
was so respectable. Only now, when I have seen all the servants, I begin
to realize . . . She went out through that door.”

“Is anything missing?” Mr. Plummer asked. “Mrs. March’s jewels?”

“Still in the safe-deposit vault. We have had no heart to think of
them.”

Nevertheless a search of the house was made that day. Nothing was
missing. Under Mrs. March’s flushed directions, as she sat up in bed, I
went round with great bunches of keys, verifying lists, looking up
laces, locating furs. Such jewelry as she had about was safe.

As for the old lady with the jet on her bonnet, with the dolman and the
buckled handbag—none of the family had ever known such a person. She
answered no description, fitted into no place. Family and servants alike
disclaimed her.

Life has a curious way of picking up threads and dropping them. The
romantic young man with the blond hair, the little old lady with the
limp, had come and gone; and for two weeks there was nothing more. Clare
March remained missing. Mrs. March spoke of her in the past tense. Mr.
Plummer grew thinner and took to coming into Mrs. March’s room and
sitting for long stretches without speech, his hands hanging listlessly
between his knees.

I had my first real talk with Mr. Plummer late one afternoon while the
invalid dozed in her chair. He was a good-looking man, something over
thirty and already growing gray. He had sat for some time, apparently
busy with his own thoughts—in reality watching me as I put away Mrs.
March’s various pretty trifles. She was always littered—ribbon bows, a
nail file, a magazine, letters.

“Do you never make an unnecessary movement?” he asked at last.

“Frequently, I’m afraid.”

“Must you put all those things away? Or will you sit down and talk for
five minutes?”

I sat down near him. Mrs. March was now sound asleep.

“Do you want me to sit down and talk, or to sit down and listen?”

“To listen, and to answer some questions. Just a minute.” He went
quietly to the dressing table, returning with the photograph of Clare
that stood there.

“You nurses know a lot about people,” he said. “That’s your business.
You’re a psychologist even if you don’t realize it. I’ve watched you
with Mrs. March. Now what do you read in that picture?”

“It is a lovely face,” I replied, doing my best, but feeling utterly
inadequate. Womanlike, I dare say I was anxious to say the thing he
wanted to hear. “A—a pleasant face, I should say, but with character
and temperament.”

“What about the eyes?”

“They are well apart—that’s a good sign, though cows are that way,
aren’t they! They are very direct and honest, too. Really, Mr.
Plummer——”

“Here is a later picture, taken this summer. Now, what do you see?”

I was puzzled and uncomfortable.

“She looks older, more serious.”

“Look at the eyes.”

Well, there was a difference. I could not say where it lay. The effect
was curious. In the early picture she was looking at the camera, and the
eyes were limpid and clear. In the picture he had taken from his
pocketbook she gazed into the camera also; but there was a sort of
elusiveness about the eyes. It gave me a strange feeling of
indirectness, evasion—I hardly know what. They might have been the eyes
of a woman who had lived hard and suffered. And yet this girl of twenty
had hardly lived as yet. It was almost a tragic face. I have seen the
same drooping lines in eye cases, where vision is faulty and seeing an
effort. What was this, then—astigmatism or evasion?

“You see it, don’t you? Miss Adams, she has had some real trouble to
make a change of that sort. I—I thought she was happy in our
engagement; but as I look back, there are things——”

Mrs. March stirred and opened her eyes.

“I hate to waken,” she said querulously. “It is only when I am asleep
that I can forget, and even then I dream. Go out now, please, Walter;
Miss Adams is going to use the vibrator.”

That afternoon at five o’clock Mr. Patton called me on the telephone for
the first time.

“I think we have something,” he said. “When you go out for your walk
tonight, dress for the street. There will be a taxicab at the corner and
I shall be inside.”

“At what time?”

“Seven thirty.”

“Will an hour be enough?”

“Ask for two hours.”

Mrs. March was rather peevish about my going out.

“I dare say you need air,” she said, “but you could get it by opening a
window. And what about my hot milk?”

“I’ll ask Hortense to sit with you and she will heat the milk. I do not
need air, of course. But I do need some exercise.”

She let me go grudgingly. Mr. Patton would not tell me where we were
going, but insisted on talking of indifferent things. As it turned out,
we were headed for a police station; and at last he voiced his errand.

“We are going to show you a lot of handbags,” he said. “A woman
pick-pocket was brought in here yesterday with four in a pocket under a
skirt. I was looking over them today and it occurred to me that you
might recognize one of them.”

“Mine! I hope you send her up for a year!”

“Not yours. And do not jump to conclusions; it is fatal in this
business.”

I knew the bag at once when I saw it. Surely no other bag of that size
in the city had two straps fastened with steel buckles. The handles of
two of the other bags had been cut off, but the heavy leather handle of
this one was entire.

“This is the one you mean, of course. Yes, it looks like the one the old
lady carried; but there may be others. It is foreign, isn’t it?”

“What was she doing that night when you noticed the bag?”

“She opened it and put in a pair of spectacles in a case.”

He unfastened the bag and emptied onto a table a tin spectacle case, as
quaint as the bag; two keys, one for a patent lock, the other an
ordinary house key. Last of all he drew from a pocket inside the bag a
soiled and creased lavender envelope, stamped and ready for mailing. It
was addressed in pencil to Mrs. March and had been opened. Mr. Patton
drew out the communication inside and watched me as I read it. It was
hardly decipherable and was written on a piece of wrapping paper:

“Am all right. Clare.”

I stared at it.

“Interesting, isn’t it?” commented Mr. Patton. “Did she write it or
didn’t she? If she’s all right, why isn’t she home? Why do all our
little communications arrive in lavender envelopes? Who’s the old lady?
What was she doing in the house that night? What’s the answer?”

“That could be the key to the garden door,” I said dully.


                               CHAPTER IV

The doctor made a late call that night and dismissed Mrs. March as a
patient.

“I’ll drop in now and then to learn what the news is,” he said as he
prepared to leave. “You don’t need me professionally. Just keep
cheerful. It will all come out right.”

I followed him into the hall. It seemed to me that if anyone knew the
inside history I had failed to secure, it was he. And up to that time I
had failed with him.

“I hope you will stay on, Miss Adams. I am leaving her in your
hands—remember, no drugs so long as she is normal; at any symptoms of
nervousness again, start them early.”

“It’s a trying case,” I said slowly. “It takes it out of me, doctor. She
asks me for theories, and—of course I didn’t know the girl or her
life—I cannot give her what she wants.”

He hesitated. We were in the lower hall by that time.

“Just what does she want?”

“Encouragement.”

“That Clare is living, of course. Well, tell her this the next time she
is down. It is true enough. Tell her Clare was unhappy in her engagement
and that I believe there is another man; that she has eloped with him;
and that her message to the family has miscarried.”

“Wilson Page?”

He eyed me. For the first time it occurred to me that he suspected my
business in the house and that he was giving me information that
ethically he would have refused.

“No; a blond fellow, rather thin. I have seen her meeting him in the
park, and once I believe she met him in my reception room.”

He seemed to regret this information the moment I had it and left
immediately.

That night, after I had rubbed Mrs. March with cocoanut oil, used the
vibrator, given her hot milk and finally read her to sleep, I slipped
into my room and sat down by the window. The autumn garden lay beneath,
with no moon to bring out its geometrical desolation. And there, elbows
on the sill, the chill air blowing about me, I tried to piece together
the scraps I held: the little old lady, the blond man and his frantic
note, the letter in the buckled bag. And again I recalled the
conversation Mr. Patton and I had had in the taxicab that evening.

“She’s alive,” he had said; “and she is in the city—if that note is
hers, and I think it is. I’ll show it to the father and the other chap
in the morning. Then she is in hiding. Why?”

                 *        *        *        *        *

I lay down on a couch at the foot of Mrs. March’s bed, but did not get
to sleep, for some reason. The slightest movement of my patient found me
wide-eyed and alert. Small sounds were exaggerated. A regular footstep
that seemed to ascend the stairs for hours turned out to be a drip from
a bathroom tap. The slow chiming of the hall clock set me crazy.

At two o’clock I got up and went downstairs. In the waitress’s pantry,
off the dining room, there were beef cubes. It seemed to me that if I
drank a cup of bouillon I might sleep. As usual the light was burning in
the lower hall. The dining room was dark—I no longer required a night
supper—and the little table in the bay window was bare. A street light
beyond the garden showed the window and the longer rectangle of the
garden door. I was not nervous.

I made my way through the unlighted dining room to the pantry, a small
room, painted white, with a butler’s slide to the basement kitchen, and
a small white glass and silver refrigerator built into the wall, where
the waitress kept the dining room butter and cream. The electric light
was out of order there; I pressed the switch, but there was no answering
flood of light. I had matches with me for the alcohol lamp, however, and
found my bouillon cubes easily. Thus I was still in darkness when I
opened the swinging door into the dining room.

Someone was trying the lock of the garden door! I do not mind saying I
was terrified. The door was glass. To cross the room to the lighted hall
would throw my whole figure into relief. I shrank back, breathing with
difficulty, into my corner. Beyond the thin casement cloth of the door I
could see a moving shadow.

The lock did not give. It seemed to me, all at once, that I knew the
silhouette—that here again was the little old lady, but now without her
key. My heart ceased pounding. I was able to think, to calculate. I
wondered whether she would break the glass. I planned to let her get in
if she could and then to cut off her retreat by advancing on her from
behind. I was very calm by that time—rather exalted, I dare say, at my
own bravery. I put the packet of beef cubes into my pocket in order to
have both hands free.

I do not know just when I realized that it was not the little old
lady—I believe it was after one of the panes had been broken and had
fallen with a soft crash onto the rug inside. The figure straightened;
it was much taller than I had expected. I recall that my heart almost
stopped and then raced on at a mad pace; I saw what I knew was a hand
put through the opening; I heard the lock turn and the cautious opening
of the door. The intruder was in the room with me.

Panic possessed me then. I turned wildly and threw myself headlong
against the swinging pantry door. It was madness, of course. There was
no exit from the little room, no way to fasten the door. I was in a
cul-de-sac and in the black dark. I believe I opened a drawer and got a
cake knife; at least, eons after, I found myself clutching one. I do not
remember how I got it.

The swinging door remained undisturbed. When I could hear—above the
pounding in my ears—there was no sound anywhere except the hall clock’s
slow chiming.

Many things I have never recalled clearly about that hideous night. I do
not know, for instance, how long I stood at bay in the pantry; or how my
courage rose from my knees, which ceased trembling, to my spinal cord,
to my pulse, which went down from about a hundred and eighty, thin and
stringy, to what I judged was almost normal, still irregular, but
stronger. When my courage reached my brain, which was in perhaps fifteen
minutes, though I would have sworn it was daylight by that time and I
had stood there most of the night, I put my ear against the door and
listened. There was no sound.

The instinct of my training asserted itself. Whatever was happening, my
patient must not be alone. I must get up to the sickroom. In a few
moments it was an obsession. I must get back. My sense of duty was
stronger than my terror.

I made the break at last, opening the door an inch or so. The room was
quiet. With infinite caution I pushed the door farther open. I could see
the room, solidly handsome, rather heavy, empty! I made my first few
steps of progress with deliberate slowness. I knew that if I ran, panic
would follow at my heels. I dared not look over my shoulder. Even the
lighted hall brought small comfort, with the dark rooms opening off it,
sheltering I knew not what; but I reached the foot of the stairs in
safety. There I stopped.

A woman, dressed in rags, lay huddled on the bottom steps in a faint.
She lay face down. Even when I had turned her over and had recognized
the features of the photographs in the house, I was still incredulous.
Nevertheless it was true. Bruised and torn, clad in rags, gaunt to the
point of emaciation, Clare March had come home again.

It was the end of one mystery—the beginning of another.


                               CHAPTER V

My first feeling was one of horror. Her condition was frankly terrible.
I even feared at first that she was dead. I found a pulse, however. I am
big and strong; I got her down off the staircase and laid her flat on
the floor. All the time I was praying that none of the family or the
servants had been roused. I did not want anyone to see her yet.

I brought down some aromatic ammonia and gave it to her in water. Mrs.
March was sleeping calmly; across the hall Mr. March also slept,
audibly. I had a little time; I wanted an hour—maybe two.

She came to very gradually, throwing an arm over her head, moving a
little, and finally opening her eyes. I talked soothingly to her.

“Now don’t be alarmed,” I said over and over. “You are at home and
everything is all right. I am a nurse. Everything is all right.”

“I want—Julie,” she said at last, feebly.

I had never heard the name.

“Julie is coming. Can you sit up if I hold you?”

She made an effort, and by degrees I got her into the music room, where
she collapsed again; and, there being no couch, I put her down on the
floor with a cushion under her head. Terrible thoughts had been running
through my head. The papers had been full of abduction stories, and I
confess I thought nothing else could explain her condition, her rags.

“I am hungry,” she said when I got her settled. “I am—I am starving! I
don’t know when I have had anything to eat.”

She looked it, too. I had the beef cubes in my pocket and I left her
there while I made some broth. I brought it back, with crackers. She was
sitting in a chair by that time, and she drank the stuff greedily,
blistering hot as it was.

I had my first chance to take an inventory of her appearance. It was
startling. Her hands were abraded and blistered. She held one out to me
pathetically, but without comment. Over one eye was a deep bluish
bruise. Her face was almost colorless, and her forearm, where one sleeve
had been torn away, was thin to emaciation. Every trace of beauty was
eclipsed for the time. She was shocking—that is all.

Her clothing was thin and inadequate: a torn white waist, much soiled; a
short, ragged black skirt; and satin bedroom slippers, frayed and cut.
She had nothing on her head and no wrap, though the night was cold. She
looked up at me when she held out the empty cup.

“How is Mother?”

“She has not been well.”

“Was it worry?”

“Yes. Do you think you can get up the stairs?”

“Is that all I am to have to eat?”

“I’ll get more soon. You mustn’t take too much at once.”

She rose and I put my arm around her. She had taken me for granted,
childishly, but at the foot of the stairs she halted our further
progress to ask me, “Who are you? You are not a servant.”

“I am a trained nurse. I’ve been caring for your mother during her
illness.”

We went up the stairs and into her room.

Mrs. March wakened about the time I had got the girl to her own room.

“Don’t tell Mother yet,” she begged. “Give me a little time. I—I’d
frighten her now.”

I promised.

When I went back, half an hour later, Clare had undressed herself and
put on a negligee from the closet. She was sitting in front of the fire
I had lighted, brushing out her hair. For the first time she was
reminiscent of the girl of the photographs. She was not like them
yet—she was too gaunt.

I tried to coax her to bed, but she would not go. I was puzzled. Her
nervous excitement was extreme; more than once she stopped, with brush
poised, as if she were on the point of asking me some question; but she
never asked it—her courage evidently failed her. It was a horrible
night. I sat inside the door of my patient’s room, in darkness, and
watched the door opposite. I could hear the girl pacing back and forth;
I was almost crazy.

I offered her a bromide, which she refused to take; but about half past
three I heard her lie down on the bed, and some of the tension relaxed.
I had a chance to think, to work out a course of action. Mr. Patton
should be notified at once; and as soon as the girl was really composed,
I would rouse Mr. March. I knew I would be criticized in the family for
not rousing them all at once, but I am always willing to take the
responsibility for what I do—the doctor’s orders first and my own
judgment next is my motto. And there have been times when the doctor’s
orders—but never mind about that.

I looked at my watch. It was almost four o’clock and still black dark. I
went down to the library, where the telephone stood on a stand behind a
teakwood screen, and called up Mr. Patton’s apartment; but I could not
get him.

I hung up the receiver and sat there in the darkness, meaning to try
again in a moment or so. It was while I was still there that I heard
Clare on the stairs.

She came slowly and painfully—a step; a pause for rest, another step.
Once down in the lower hall, she made better progress. She came directly
into the library, through the music room, and turned on the lights.

I was curious. It was easy to watch her through the carved margin of the
screen. It was only curiosity. I had no idea there would be further
mystery to solve. In the morning she would tell her story, the law would
take hold, and that would be all. But I recall distinctly every movement
she made.

First she went to the long table littered with magazines, with the
bronze reading lamp in the center. She glanced over the magazines as
they lay, picked up the framed picture of herself and looked at it for a
long moment, her hands visibly trembling. Then she took a survey of the
room.

There was an English fender about the fireplace, with a tufted leather
top. Mr. Plummer habitually sat there, with his back to the fire. And
just inside, thrown carelessly, lay a newspaper. It was the newspaper
she wanted. It was not easy for her to reach it in her weakened
condition. She stooped, staggered, bent again, and got it.

The wood fire had burnt itself out, but the warm bricks and ashes still
threw out a comforting heat. She curled up on the floor by the fender
and proceeded to go over the pages, running a shaking finger through
paragraph after paragraph. I was most uncomfortable, half ashamed, and
cramped from my position.

When I felt that I could stand no more, she found what she was looking
for. I heard her gasp and then saw her throw herself forward, her face
in her arms, crying silently but fiercely, her shoulders shaking. She
paid no attention when I bent over her, except to draw herself away from
my hand. When I tried to take the newspaper, however, she snatched it
from my hand and sat up.

“Go away!” she said hysterically. “Stop following me and watching me.
Can’t I even cry alone?”

I was rather offended. I drew back, like a fool, and lost a clue that we
did not find until weeks later.

“I’m sorry you feel that way,” I said coldly and went out and up the
stairs.

She burned the paper before she made a laborious and faltering ascent of
the staircase half an hour later—at least, when I went down, there was
no sign of it or of any of the newspapers that had littered the room.
And, though Mr. Patton secured copies of them all later and we went over
them patiently, we could find nothing that seemed to have the remotest
bearing on what we were trying to learn.

                 *        *        *        *        *

She was much better by morning—had slept a little; was calmer; had a
bit of color in her ears, which had been wax-white; but the bruise on
her forehead was blacker.

I broke the news of her return very gently to Mr. March at dawn and left
it to him to tell his wife. I went to her afterward and found her
hysterically impatient to see her daughter. I induced her to wait,
however, until she had had an egg and a piece of toast. I do not believe
in excitement on an entirely empty stomach. We covered the bruise with a
loop of Clare’s heavy hair; and then her father and mother went in and I
closed the door.

Somebody had telephoned for Mr. Plummer; but she sent her father out to
say she would not see him just yet. It was like a blow in the face. He
almost reeled.

“That’s the message, boy,” Mr. March said. “I don’t understand it any
more than you do. She’s in frightful condition; we’ve sent for the
doctor. Tomorrow I am sure——”

“But what does she say?” Mr. Plummer broke in. “Where has she been? I’ll
wait until she wants to see me, of course, but for God’s sake tell me
where she has been!”

“She has told us very little,” Mr. March had to confess. “She is hardly
coherent yet. She says she will talk to the police sometime today. She
has been imprisoned—that is all we know.”

Mrs. March’s sitting room was open and Mr. Plummer went in and sat down
heavily. Sometime later, as I passed the door, he called me in.

“You saw her first, didn’t you?” he asked. “Will you sit down and tell
me all you know about it?”

I was glad to talk—I had been bottled up for so long. I told him
everything—except my reason for being down in the library behind the
screen.

“Did she ask for me at all?” he asked when I had finished.

“I—I think so. Naturally she would.”

He smiled at me wryly.

“You know she did not ask for me,” he said and got up.

I was very sorry for him. He was so earnest, so bewildered. He waited
round all morning, hoping for a message, and about noon she said she
would see him. Her own maid dressed her and together we put a little
rouge on her face and touched up her colorless lips. Except for the
hollows in her cheeks, she looked lovely. I gave her message to him.

“Tell him I want to see him,” she said to me; “but he is not to ask a
lot of questions, and he is to stay only a minute or two—I am so very
tired.”

He was uncertain of his welcome, I think. I took him to the door. She
was on a couch, propped up with pillows, and the bruise was covered. And
when I saw the look in his eyes and the assuring flame in hers, I knew
that, whatever else was wrong, it was nothing that lay between them. The
vision of the blond man as Clare’s lover died at that moment and never
came to life again.

The story of the almost two months of Clare March’s disappearance she
told to Mr. Patton that afternoon. She would not allow her father and
mother to be present, and only Mr. Patton’s insistence that the nurse
should be there to see that she did not overtax her strength secured my
admission. The story was short and was told haltingly. It gave me the
impression of truth, but of being only a part of the truth. Her
descriptions of the people and of the surroundings, for instance, were
undoubtedly drawn from painful memory. They were photographic—raw with
truth. The same was true of her story of the escape.

“It was on the third of September that you started home,” Mr. Patton
said. “We know that, and that you arrived on the morning of the fourth.
We lost you from the time you got into a taxicab at the station. Did you
order the man to drive you home?”

“Not directly. I went to—” She named the department store to which she
had been traced. “I had made my purchase when a young man came up to me
and introduced himself. He said I did not know him, but that he was
living in the same house with an old German teacher of mine, Fräulein
Julie Schlenker. She had taught me at boarding school and I was very
fond of her. He said she was—dying.”

Tears came into her eyes. Mr. Patton caught my eye for the fraction of a
second.

“Was this before you bought the blankets or after?”

She looked startled, but he was smiling pleasantly. If she had to
reassemble her story, she did it well and quickly.

“Before. I was terribly worried about Julie,” she said. “I agreed to go
there at once, and I asked him what I could take her to make her
comfortable. He said she couldn’t eat, but perhaps blankets—or
something like that. I bought blankets and had them put in the taxicab.”

“What address did this blond young man give you?”

“I did not say he was a blond young man,” she objected. “I do not
remember what he looked like. I should not know him again.”

Mr. Patton nodded gravely.

“My mistake,” he said. “Was this the same taxicab?”

“No; I had dismissed the other. I got into the taxicab and the man gave
an address to the driver. I paid no attention to it. I was upset about
Julie. I hardly looked out. We went very fast. All the time I was seeing
Julie lying dead, with her poor old face—” She shuddered. Clearly that
part of the story was true enough and painful. “We drove for a long
time. I was worried about the bill. When the register said four dollars
I was anxious. I had checks, but very little money.”

She stopped herself suddenly and gave Mr. Patton a startled glance, but
he was blandness itself.

“Four dollars!” he said. “Did you know the neighborhood?”

“Not at all. I was angry and accused the driver of taking a roundabout
way. He said he had gone directly and offered to ask a policeman.”

“You were still in the city then?”

“Yes; but it was far out. When the driver drew up, I had just enough
money to pay him. It was almost five dollars.”

“Can you remember exactly?”

“Four dollars and eighty cents. I gave that man five dollars. I had only
a dollar left.”

“The young man was still with you?”

“No, indeed. I was quite alone. I wish you would not interrupt me.”

Mr. Patton sat back good-humoredly and folded his hands. I knew why he
had continually broken in on the story. I thought he had caught
something, by his look.

“I got out. I had the blankets and they were bulky. The man carried them
to the doorstep and drove away. I thought it was a queer neighborhood.
It was a mean little house, off by itself, with only an unoccupied house
near.

“I felt very strange, but Julie was always queer.

“I asked for Julie. A hideous old woman answered the door. The whole
place was filthy. I felt terribly for Julie—she was always so neat. I
went in and up the stairs. The stairs were narrow and steep, and shut
off below with a door. All I could think of was Julie in that horrible
place. There were cobwebs along the stairs. We turned toward the back of
the house and stopped before a door. The old woman did not rap. She
opened it and said, ‘In here, miss.’ I went in. The room was empty. I
said, ‘Why, where is Julie?’ But the old woman had gone. I heard her
outside locking the door.”

That was a strange story we listened to that afternoon—a story of
futile calls for help; of bread and water passed through a broken panel
in the door; of a drugged sleep, from which she wakened to find her
clothing gone and rags substituted; of drunken revels below; and of the
constant, maddening surveillance through the panel by a man with a
squint. She described the room with absolute accuracy and even drew it
roughly for Mr. Patton: a low attic room with two small windows; a
sloping roof; discolored plaster from a leak above, a washstand without
bowl or pitcher; for light a glass lamp with a smoked chimney; and for
furniture a cot under the lowest part of the ceiling, and a chair.

Once a day, she said, the old woman brought her a tin basin for washing,
and a towel, rough-dried. The basin had a red string to hang it up by,
she said. The towels were checked—pink and white.

“Like glass towels,” she said. “There was a grate for coal and a wooden
shelf above it, with an old steel engraving tacked up on the wall. One
corner was loose, and if I left the window open, it flapped all the
time. I had a fire only once; but I did not suffer from cold—the
kitchen was beneath, and the flue was always warm.”

“This steel engraving—do you remember what it was?”

“The Landing of the Pilgrims,” she said promptly. “Someone had colored a
part of it with crayons—a child probably.”

Mr. Patton looked puzzled. She might have invented the panel in the door
or the man with the squint; but parts of her story bore the absolute
imprint of truth: the chimney flue being warm, the flapping picture, the
rough-dried towels, the basin with a red string through its rim.

“In a moment I want you to tell us how you got away,” Mr. Patton said,
“but first—I want a reason for all this. Was it—did they try to force
you to anything?”

“Nothing at all.”

“They were not white slavers then?”

She colored. “No.”

“They never threatened you?”

She hesitated, considered.

“Only when I cried out—and that did no good. There was only an empty
house near.”

“Miss March, this is an almost incredible story. A crime must have a
motive. You are saying that you were imprisoned in an isolated house for
nearly two months, were unharmed and unthreatened, but under constant
surveillance, and finally made your escape. And you can imagine no
reason for it!”

“I haven’t said that at all—I imagined plenty of reasons. Couldn’t they
have wanted a ransom?”

“They made no attempt to secure one.”

She told of her escape rather briefly. If I can give in so many words my
impression of her story, it was that here and there she was on sure
ground, and that the escape was drawn absolutely from memory and was
accurate in every detail.

“Every now and then they all got drunk,” she said. “I—I always thought
they would set the house on fire. The two younger women would sing—and
it was horrible.”

“You did not say there were younger women.”

She was confused.

“There were two. One was married to the man. They called the old woman
Ma. And there was a man with a wooden leg who visited the house. He came
over the field; I saw him often. For two days they’d been drinking, and
the old woman fell down and hurt herself. I could hear her groaning. And
I was hungry—I was terribly hungry.” She looked at me. “You know how
hungry I was. I had not even water.”

“She was starving,” I said.

“Nobody came. I was frightened. I kept thinking that something had
happened.” She checked herself, started again. “All evening I lay in
darkness. I could hear them yelling and singing, and now and then the
old woman groaning. And I was so thirsty I hoped it would rain and the
roof would leak. That’s how thirsty I was. I slept a little—not very
much. Mostly I walked about and worried. The house was so quiet that it
drove me crazy.”

“Quiet! Were they asleep?”

She looked at him quickly.

“They went away—all of them. There was only the old woman, and she was
hurt. When I called, nobody answered.”

“How was your door fastened?”

“On the outside.”

“Couldn’t you have put your arm through the broken panel and unlocked
it?”

“The key was not in the lock. It never was. It was always on a nail at
the top of the staircase. I could see it.”

No one could have doubted her. The key was kept at the top of the stairs
on a nail. It takes a perceptible second to invent such a detail. She
had not invented it.

“All the next day no one came near me. One of the windowpanes was
broken. I called through it for help. Sometimes there were people in the
fields beyond the house. There was nobody that day except some little
boys. They paid no attention; perhaps they did not hear me. I was
getting weaker all the time. I thought that pretty soon I would be too
weak to try to escape. The fire was out below and my room was cold. My
hands were so stiff I could hardly move them. I worked a long time at
the window. They had driven nails in all round it. I worked them loose.”

She held out her hands. They were cut and blistered.

“I got them out at last, but I broke a pane of glass. I hardly cared
whether it was heard or not. I had never been able before to see what
lay below the window. There was a sort of shed there.

“I had to wait until night. The room was freezing, with the window out.
They were still away, except the old woman. She lay and groaned down
below. I lay on the mattress the rest of the day and shivered. As soon
as it was dark, I crawled up on the windowsill. I was frightened—it
looked so far down. I lowered myself by my hands and then dropped; but I
slipped. I thought I had broken my ankle. The loose boards on the shed
made a frightful noise.”

“How did you find your way home?”

“I walked for hours. I do not know anything about the streets. I just
walked toward the glow of the city lights against the sky. When I got
into the city proper, I knew where I was.”

“Where were you when you first recognized your surroundings?”

“I saw the North Market.”

“Do you remember from which direction you approached it?”

“The west side, I believe.” Her tone was reluctant.

Mr. Patton drew a soiled lavender envelope from his pocket and took out
its enclosure.

“‘Am all right. Clare,’” he read. “Now, Miss March, just when and where
did you write this little note?”

Her only answer was to break into hysterical crying. “Julie! Julie!” she
cried. She absolutely refused to explain the note. It was an _impasse_.
She could neither explain it nor ignore it. She took refuge in tears and
silence.

That was the end of Clare March’s story. It sounded like madness; but
there was proof of a sort—her general condition; her hands; her brief
but photographic descriptions. It was true—at least in part. It was not
the whole truth. She had not spoken of the blond man or of the little
old lady in black; and yet I was convinced she knew about them both. Mr.
Patton thought as I did; for when she was quieter, he asked for a
description of the old woman of her story.

“She was very stout,” she said slowly, “and very dirty. She always wore
the same things—a blue calico dress and an apron. She seemed to be
washing all the time; the apron was always wet and soapy. And she had
thin gray hair drawn into a hard knot.”

“Could you tell her nationality by her voice—her accent?”

“I’m afraid not.”

“Did you ever see her dressed for the street?”

“Never.”

“Then you never saw her in a black bonnet trimmed with jet and an
old-fashioned dolman, and carrying a pocketbook fastened with two
buckles?”

She leaned over suddenly and caught Mr. Patton by the wrist.

“I can’t stand it any longer!” she cried. “What do you know? Was the
paper wrong?”

When she saw by his face that he did not understand and could not help
her, she sank back among her pillows. She would not answer any more
questions and lapsed into a watchful silence.


                               CHAPTER VI

Naturally I have never taken any credit for the solution of the Clare
March mystery. Even now, when I am writing under an assumed name, I am
uneasy. To be suspected would be my professional ruin. So far I have
been able to keep my double calling a profound secret. I may have been
in your house. Think it over, those of you who have something to
conceal—are you certain that the soft-walking, starched young woman to
whom in your weakness you talked so freely—are you sure it was not
myself? Under the skin, I said in the beginning—aye, and under the
flesh and its weaknesses. Do you recall that day when you and a visitor
talked at the bedside and I wrote letters in a corner by a window? How
do you know but that your entire conversation, word by word, was at the
Central Office in two hours? Did it ever occur to you before?

I wrote many letters that week. Mrs. March was up and about, bustling
and busy; Clare was my patient. I no longer met Mr. Patton in the
evenings. He was combing the outskirts of the city, I believe, and
interviewing taxicab drivers. I sent a daily report to him by mail:

                 *        *        *        *        *

MONDAY—I notice one curious thing: She will not let me do much for her.
Hortense, her maid, does some things—not much. She gets rid of us both
whenever she can. I feel worse than useless. I have offered to give her
massage, but she refuses. Mr. Plummer only comes to the door—she does
not wish him to come in.

TUESDAY—Still weak and inert. A box of flowers every day from Mr.
Plummer. I had once thought possibly she did not care for him; but today
I saw her eyes again when she looked at the roses—I believe she is
crazy about him. She would like to get rid of me, but her parents insist
she needs me. Her hands are healing. There is one curious thing—her
wrists are abraded. Did she say her hands were tied?

WEDNESDAY—The blond man has been here. I saw him from the stairs and
went down. He is not what we thought at all. He is untidy and shabby. He
was waiting inside the door, turning his hat round in his hands. I told
him Miss March was ill, but he refused to leave. He said, “Tell her it
is Samuels, and this is the last call. She’ll know what I mean.” I said,
“I think she has had a letter from you.” He turned livid. “Then she got
it!” he stormed. “And she paid no attention to it! You tell her, for me,
that she’ll fix things with me now—today—or I’ll tell the whole
story!” He felt in his watch pocket and seemed to remember that his
watch was gone. That added to his rage. “You tell her that. Tell her
she’ll have it at the old place by three this afternoon or I’ll go to
her precious sweetheart and tell him some things he ought to know.” I
tried to follow him when he left, but by the time I’d got my hat and
ulster he was out of sight. If Samuels is his real name, you can
probably find him. He is blond and smooth-shaved, and has a gold
tooth—right side, upper jaw; wears a tan overcoat and a soft green felt
hat.

WEDNESDAY, four P.M.—I have just come back from an errand for Clare. I
have been to the “old place” with a parcel for Samuels. It was money. He
was so greedy that he tore it open while I waited. It seemed to be
considerable—well over a hundred dollars. When he had counted it, he
put it in his pocket. He looked better than in the morning and was
calmer. He looked at me after he had counted it. “Don’t look so damned
virtuous!” he said. “This isn’t blackmail. It’s for value received.”

The “old place” is at the corner of Tenth Street and the Embankment. We
stood in the doorway of a vacant building and talked. Samuels looks
decayed—as if he has seen better days. I tried to get you by telephone
to follow me. You were out.

THURSDAY—A very curious thing happened today: Clare asked for some
chicken cooked in cream. The cook had never done it and I volunteered.
It took some time; I was in the basement more than an hour. When I came
up with the chicken, she had disappeared. We were all terribly
frightened. I called the office twice, but you were out as usual—you
will have to arrange some way for me to get you in emergencies. She had
taken her wraps and gone out by the garden door. The parlor maid had not
seen her. It was two hours later when she came back, exhausted. She
locked herself in her room and it was almost the dinner hour before she
would admit me.

Her father had a talk with her tonight. He said, “You must not do such
unwise things. You will drive your mother frantic.”

“Poor Mother!” she replied. “I’ll tell you before long where I was.
Don’t ask me.”

I thought she had been crying. I believe she has pawned or sold her
sapphire ring; I do not see it.

                 *        *        *        *        *

That last letter, sent special delivery, and unsigned as all of them
were, brought a telephone message from the detective and an appointment
for that evening.

“Ask for an evening off,” he said. “I think I’ve got it. And I want to
talk to you.”

He had a taxi at the corner that night. It was when it was well under
way that he began to talk.

“We’ve got the house,” he said. “The man with the squint did it—but
that’s a long story. In Miss March’s anxiety to tell as much as she
dared of the truth, she went a little too far. Given a
four-dollar-and-eighty-cent taxicab radius, an isolated house with two
young women, an old hag and a man with a squint—put a shed on the back
of the house and a bad reputation all over it—and you have perhaps two
dozen possibilities. Add such graphic touches as a built-in stairway and
a tin basin hung up by a red string as identification marks, and an
empty house and a man with a wooden leg for neighbors, and out of the
two dozen there will be one house that fits. We’ve found it.”

“Is that where we are going?”

“To that neighborhood. I really wanted a chance to go over the whole
thing with you. Now, then, what do you think? You’ve been close to the
case—closer than I have. How much of that story of hers is true?”

“About half of it.”

“Which half?”

“Well, I think she was not a prisoner. I believe she was a voluntary
guest in the house she described and that she was hiding from
something.”

“I see. And not expecting us to find the house, she gave a
circumstantial description. But what was she hiding from? So far as we
can learn, her past has been an open book—she was away at school for
four years, and spent a year abroad with a party of girls and a
chaperone. She came out two years ago—I remember reading about the
coming-out ball, something very elaborate. That first winter she went
about with young Page, became engaged and broke it off. Page has been
away ever since. It can’t have anything to do with Page. Last spring she
took on this Plummer—has been with her family all summer—has never,
except during the year abroad, been away from her mother for any length
of time. That doesn’t look like anything to hide from. What do you think
of the Julie story?”

“I don’t believe it. But there is a Julie.”

“Does the family know the name?”

“No. The girl is paying blackmail, Mr. Patton.”

“The blond chap?”

“Yes.”

“That was rotten luck, my being out of touch that day. If we had him—or
if we had your friend, the little old lady!”

He stopped the taxicab shortly after and we got out. We were well out of
the center of town, in a scattering suburb. I had never seen it. And
before us stretched one of those empty spaces that are left here and
there, without apparent cause, during the growth of the city. House
builders are gregarious—they build in clusters. Perhaps it’s a matter
of sewers or of gas and water. To right and left of us stretched a sort
of field, almost bare of grass, with straggling paths across it. Long
before, a street had been cut through; its edges were still intact—a
pitfall for the unwary.

I did not see all this that night. It was late October and very dark.
Mr. Patton had a pocket flash, and with that and his hand I managed
fairly. Our destination was before us—a little house, faintly lighted.

“I’m afraid this isn’t very pleasant, Miss Adams,” he apologized; “and I
haven’t a good reason for bringing you. But I’m up against it in a way.
I want you to see this place and perhaps your instinct will tell you
what I fail to make out. I’ve been here once today and it stumps me.
They swear they’ve never had a girl there; that the man with the wooden
leg sleeps in the garret sometimes. He’s a watchman at the railroad over
there. By the way, did she speak of a railroad?”

“I think not.”

“It’s a bad place. The police protection doesn’t amount to much, but
over there in the town they say it’s a speakeasy. The cellar’s full of
beer. They say other things, too—that the old woman is a white slaver,
for one thing. That bears out the story partly. And another thing does
also—the hag hurt herself lately. She’s going about with a cane. On the
other hand—well, if they were lying today they did a good piece of
work.”

There was a wagon near the house as we approached. At first we thought
they were moving out. Then Mr. Patton laughed.

“Getting rid of the beer and the empties,” he said. “Got them scared!
Now don’t be nervous. You needn’t speak to them. I want you to keep your
eyes open—that’s all.”

I was nervous. There was something sinister about the very location. I
have even now rather a hazy recollection of Mr. Patton’s rap at the
door, the imperious summons of the law, and of a hideous old woman who
peered out into the darkness.

“Well, Mother,” Mr. Patton said cheerfully, “here I am again. I want to
look round a little.”

The hag made as if to close the door, but a woman spoke from behind.

“Let him in, Ma,” she said. “We ain’t got nothing to hide. Come in,
mister.”

A man came up from a cellarway with a box of bottles. I can still see
his face over the bottles—his sickening pallor, his squint. He thought
it was a raid, clearly. Then he saw me and his color came back.

“I guess a man’s ’ouse is ’is own,” he snarled. “We drink a little beer
ourselves. That ain’t agin’ the law, I reckon.”

“Not at all,” Mr. Patton said good-humoredly. “I’ll have a lamp,
please.”

It appeared to be a four-roomed house. We stood in the front room, an
untidy place with a bed in a corner, and heavy with stale odors. Behind,
there was a kitchen containing a table littered with the remains of the
evening meal. Between the two rooms was a narrow, steep staircase shut
off with a door below and ending above in a small landing. From this
landing two doorways opened—one into a front room, the other into a
half room, or attic, over the kitchen. It was into this room that Mr.
Patton, carrying a smoky lamp, led the way.

“This is the room,” he said. “That is the window with the shed below.
Here is where the flue comes up from the kitchen.”

I looked round. It was a sordid, filthy place. The plaster had broken
away here and there. Where it was intact it was discolored from a
leaking roof. For furniture there was a mattress on the floor, with
soiled bedding, a chair with a broken seat and a washstand. Clare had
said the washstand was unfurnished, but had mentioned a tin basin. Here
was a tin basin with a red string. Mr. Patton was watching me grimly.

“Well, what do you make of it?” he said.

“It looks queer,” I admitted. “Only there are some things—the panel in
the door, for instance. There is no door.”

“I asked about that. They say it came off the hinges a month or so ago
and they chopped it up for firewood.”

I was still looking about. He had stooped and was examining the door
hinges.

“She said she broke the glass. One window is broken, but this one over
the shed is not.”

He came over and ran his hand over the window frame.

“Sash is nailed in, which I believe was also mentioned!” he said. Our
eyes met in the dim light—a friendly clash; he was so sure of the place
and I was so doubtful.

As I stood there peering into the squalid corners of the attic, I
remembered the daintiness of the girl’s room at home—its bright chintz
and shining silver, its soft lamps, its cushions, its white bath beyond.
I remembered the exquisite service of the March household and tried to
picture the hag below climbing that ladder of a staircase with a platter
of greasy food. I tried to forget Clare in her lovely negligee, and to
recall the haggard creature who had dropped in her rags at the foot of
the staircase. And I tried to place the wretched girl of that night in
this wretched place. I could not do it. There was something wrong.

Mr. Patton turned to me, gravely smiling.

“Now, then, your instinct against my training,” he said. “Is this the
place?”

“I do not believe she was ever here,” I said. “Don’t ask me why—I just
don’t believe it.” But a moment later I felt that my instinct had
received a justification. “Do you remember,” I said, “a graphic
description of a steel engraving that flapped in the wind?”

“By George!”

“There is not only no engraving—there are no nail holes in the plaster.
There has never been such an engraving here,” I said in triumph.


                              CHAPTER VII

I have often wondered what would have happened had we taken Clare March
the next day to that untidy house in Brickyard Road. Brickyard Road was
the local name of the street that had been cut through and forgotten.

Would she have told the real story or not? If not, how would she have
explained the discrepancy, for instance, of the missing engraving? Would
she have taken refuge in silence? Had she hoped by the very detail of
her description to throw us off the track? Did she wonder, those
dreadful days, how the bag with the buckles had come into the hands of
the police and yet had not led us further? Did she suspect me at any
time?

Sometimes I thought she did. She would not let me do much for her. I
gave her the medicines that were ordered, saw to her nourishment, read
to her occasionally. Her own maid looked after her personally. It rather
irritated me. More than once I found her watching me. I would glance up
from my book and find her eyes on me with a question in them; but she
never asked it.

Mr. Patton was waiting eagerly to take her out to Brickyard Road; but
she was still very weak and she showed a distaste for the excursion that
was understandable enough under the circumstances. Other things puzzled
me, however—her unwillingness to see Mr. Plummer was one. Yet she sat
for hours looking at his picture. I suspected, too, that her maid was
closely in her confidence. More than once I caught a glance of
understanding between them. Sometimes I wondered if Clare was quite
normal—not insane, of course, but with some queer mental bias.

Outwardly everything was calm. She lay or sat in her fairylike room,
with flowers all about her. Her color was coming back. In her soft
negligees she looked flowerlike herself. The picture was quite complete:
a lovely convalescent, a starched and capped nurse, a maid in black and
white, flowers, order, decorum, with a lover hovering in the background.
But the nurse was making notes on her record that were not of symptoms;
the maid was not clever enough to mask her air of mystery; and the lover
paced back and forth downstairs waiting for a word that never came.

On the day following my excursion with Mr. Patton, going into my own
room unexpectedly, I found Hortense, the maid, in my clothes-closet. She
made profuse apologies and backed out. She had been looking, she said,
for a frock that had been mislaid. I did not believe her.

After she had gone, I made a careful examination of the closet. A row of
my white linen dresses hung there, my street clothes, my mackintosh. In
a far end, where I had placed them the night she arrived, were the
ragged garments in which Clare had come home. I locked my door and,
taking them out, went over them carefully.

There was a worn black skirt, rather short; a ragged and filthy waist of
poor material and carelessly made, put together by hand with large
stitches and coarse thread. The undergarments were similarly sewed. They
might have come from just such a place as the house in Brickyard Road.
The skirt was different. Though ragged, it was well made, and it had
been shortened.

I found something just then. On the inside of the belt was woven the
name of one of the leading tailors in the city. I thought that over
awhile. The skirt could hardly belong to Brickyard Road. It seemed to me
that this was a valuable clue. It seemed to me that Hortense knew this
also, and that there was no time to be lost.

The situation was put up to me that day in an unexpected fashion. Mr.
Patton slipped on the first ice of the season and injured the leg that
had been hurt before. He was almost wild with vexation.

“Just keep wide awake,” he wrote me by special delivery, “and send me
the usual daily bulletins. If anything very important happens, come
round and see me. The people we saw are being watched. If you meet the
blond chap, follow him until you get a chance to telephone. I’ll send
someone to relieve you. We haven’t got it all yet by any means.”

It rather knocked my plans, especially as I could tell by the shaky
writing that he was suffering when he wrote the letter. It seemed to me
that for a day or so I should have to get along alone.

But I could do something—I could perhaps trace the skirt.

I had been in the March house now for eight weeks and had had
practically no time off. When I asked for two hours, Mrs. March offered
me the remainder of the day.

I took it; I was glad to get it.

I took the skirt along, carrying it out quite calmly under Hortense’s
not too friendly eyes. I wanted to identify the skirt. If it had been
made for Clare, her story of having had all her clothing taken away from
her would fall to shreds. If it had not, I meant to trace it. And trace
it I did that autumn afternoon, while the dead leaves in the park made
crackling eddies under the trees, while the wind held me back at every
corner, while fashionable women donned the first furs of the season and
sallied forth to the tailors for their winter garments. I, too, went to
a tailor.

I dare say I was not fashionable enough to be worth while. It was a long
time before I received attention and my few hours were flying. When at
last the manager turned to me, I indicated my bundle.

“I want to trace a skirt that was made here,” I began. “Your name is on
the belt. It is very important.”

“But, madam,” he said, “we cannot give any information that concerns our
customers.”

“This is vitally important.”

“It would be impossible. We turn out a great many costumes. We keep no
record of the styles.”

“There is a number on the belt.”

I believe he suspected me of divorce proclivities. He held out both
hands, palms up.

“Madam surely understands—it is impossible!”

I turned over the lapel of my coat and he saw a badge that Mr. Patton
had given me. He had said, “Don’t use it unless you need to; but when
the time comes, flash it!”

I flashed it. I got my information within ten minutes, but it did not
help at first. He gave me the name of the woman for whom it had been
made. I had never heard of her—a Mrs. Kershaw.

“You are quite positive?”

“Positive, madam. The number is distinct. Also one of the skirtmakers
recalls—it was part of a trousseau a year or so ago.”

A sort of lust of investigation seized me. I had started the thing and I
would see it out. With a new deference the tailor handed me my rewrapped
bundle and saw me to the door.

“No trouble with the Kershaws, I hope?” he said.

“None whatever,” I answered at random. “She gave a skirt away and I am
tracing it.”

That was it, of course. I said it first and believed it afterward. She
had given the skirt away.

It took an hour and a half of my shortening afternoon to locate and
interview Mrs. Kershaw. She was quite affable. I did not show my
badge—it was not necessary. I made up a story about some stolen goods,
with this skirt among them. She was anxious to help, she said, but . . .

“I hardly remember,” she said. “I gave away a lot of my wedding
clothes—the styles changed so quickly. Why, I remember exactly what I
did with that! I gave it to the Fräulein—Fräulein Schlenker. But stolen
goods! She’s the honestest old soul in the world.”

“She is old then?”

“Oh, yes—quite. Such a quaint little figure. She taught me at boarding
school; she seemed old even then. Poor Fräulein Julie!”

My lips were dry. Julie!

“Would you mind describing the Fräulein, Mrs. Kershaw?”

“You do not suspect her of anything?”

“No, indeed; but I should like to find her.”

“Well, she is a little thing, stooped and lame. She hurt her ankle after
I knew her first. She is very saving—we all thought she was rich; but I
believe not. There’s a brother, or someone, that she helps. She wears a
rusty black bonnet with jet on it, and a queer old wrap; and—oh,
yes—she always carries the same bag—a foreign one, with buckles. I
really think the bag was the reason we thought she was wealthy. It
seemed such a secure affair.”

Julie, then, was my little old lady of the dining room and the garden
door! And there was more than that—the school was the school from which
Clare had graduated.

“Have you seen the Fräulein lately?”

“We have been away all summer. She may have called. I’ll ask.”

The little old lady had not called, however. I got her address. It
seemed to me that things were closing up.

It was quite dark when I left the Kershaw house. It was very cold and I
was hungry; but excitement would not let me eat. I was getting my first
zest for this new game I was playing, and I was losing my shrinking
horror of spying into affairs that were not my own. It seemed to me that
my cause was just; for if Clare March had not been incarcerated in the
Brickyard Road house, she might still, out of terror of the truth,
insist that she had been. Hysterical young women had done such things
before. I held no brief for the family in Brickyard Road; but if they
were innocent, they were not to suffer. I was after the truth, and I
felt that I should get it. I had no course of action mapped out. I
wanted to confront the little old lady—I got no further.

It was seven o’clock when I reached the house. I had crossed the city
again. I was hungry and shivering with cold, and I still carried the
parcel under my arm. For the first time that day I was nervous. The fear
of failure assailed me. I used to have the same feeling when I had
charge of the operating room and a strange surgeon was about to operate.
Would he want silk or catgut? What solutions did he use? Would the
assistant get there in time to lay out the instruments? So now with the
Fräulein—would she deny the skirt? If she did, should I accuse her of
the night visit to the March house? Or of the letter in the buckled bag?

The house was a small one on a by-street, a comfortable two-story brick,
with a wooden stoop and a cheerful glow through the curtains of a
vestibule door. The woman who answered my ring was clearly the mistress.
She wore a white apron and there was an agreeable odor of cooking food
in the air.

“Fräulein Schlenker?” she said. “Yes; she made her home here. She is not
here now.”

“Can’t you tell me where I may find her?”

She hesitated.

“I don’t know exactly. We’ve been anxious about her lately. She went
away for a vacation about two months ago. Did you want to see her about
renting the house in Brickyard Road?”

For just a minute I distinctly saw two white aprons and two vestibule
doors!

“Yes,” I said as coolly as I could. “When—when will it be empty?”

“It is empty,” she replied. “I hardly know what to do. She’s been
anxious to rent it; but now that she’s away and no word from her . . .
Would you like the key?”

The empty house in Brickyard Road!

“If I might have it.”

“You’ll return it soon, won’t you?” She went into the hall and got a key
from the drawer of a table, “She’ll do anything that’s reasonable—paper
the lower floor and fix the roof. It’s a nice little house.” I took the
key, still rather dazed. “It’s a growing neighborhood out that way,” she
went on, evidently eager to do her roomer a good turn. “Some of these
days that street will be paved.” She had an air of doubt; she was
clearly divided between eagerness and trepidation. “You’ll be sure to
return the key?”

“I’ll have it back here tomorrow.”

She watched me down the street, still vaguely uneasy. I tried to make my
back honest, to step as one who walks the straight and narrow path. I
had a feeling that she might suddenly change her mind and pursue me,
commanding the return of the key. I hardly breathed until I had turned
the corner.

I got something to eat at the first restaurant I saw. I needed food and
time to think. I meant at first to telephone Mr. Patton. As I grew
warmer and less fatigued I decided to go on alone. It was my first case;
I wanted to make good—frankly I desired Mr. Patton’s approval, and
something he had once said to me came back.

“In this business,” he said, “there are times when two’s a crowd.” I
remembered that.

I ate deliberately. I never hurry with my food—I’ve seen too many
stomachs treated like coal cellars on the first cold day of fall. And as
I ate, the key lay before me on the cloth. It had a yellow tag tied to
it, endorsed in a small, neat script, very German.

“Key to the house in Brickyard Road,” it said. “Kitchen door.”

I had, at the best, about two hours and a half when I left the
restaurant. That meant a taxicab. I counted my money. I had thirteen
dollars. It would surely be enough.

Brickyard Road lay a square or two away from where I alighted. I
retained the cab—out there in that potter’s field of dead-and-gone
real-estate hopes it was a tie with the living world. Its lamps made a
comfortable glow. The driver was broad-shouldered. I borrowed a box of
matches from him. I have often wondered since what he thought.

The house Mr. Patton and I had examined was dimly lighted, as before. I
passed it at a safe distance. The empty house, that was the only other
building in Brickyard Road, was my destination. The two houses were
alike—clearly built by the same builder. Only the courage of an idea
took me on. In the lighted house the crone was singing—a maudlin voice.
Someone was walking along the rickety boardwalk round the place—a step
and a tap, a step and a tap—the one-legged man, of course.

There is something horrible about an empty house at night. A house is an
intimate place; its every emanation is human. Life has begun and ended
in it. Thoughts are things, I have always believed—things that leave
their mark.

I had such a feeling about the little house in Brickyard Road. I was
very nervous. The other house was near enough to be dangerous—too far
away to be company. I felt terribly alone. There was not even starlight.
I stumbled and fumbled along, feeling my way by the side of the house to
the rear. There was a dispute going on next door. The crone had ceased
singing. Someone broke a bottle with a crash.

I found the kitchen door at last. To reach it I had to go through a
wooden shed. In the safety of the shed I struck a match and found the
keyhole. The key turned easily. As I opened the door, a breath of musty
air greeted me and blew out my match. The thick darkness closed down on
me like a veil; I was frightened.

It was a moment or two before I could light a fresh match, and it took
more than that for me to survey the kitchen. It had been in use not very
long before. There was a kettle on the stove and a few odds and ends of
dishes in orderly stacks on an upturned box. And there was a loaf of
bread, covered with gray-green mold. There was no table, no chair—but
in a corner, there was a cot bed, neatly made up. I remember distinctly
the comfort of discovering that orderly bed, with a log-cabin quilt
spread over it.

My match went out, but the box was almost full. I was not uneasy now.
The peace of the log-cabin quilt was on my soul. I found a smoky lamp
with very little oil in it, and lighted it. My nerves are pretty good.
I’ve laid out more than one body in the mortuary at night and alone. I
was not going to be daunted by an empty house. Nevertheless the glow of
the lamp was comforting. I put down my bundle and went into the front
room.

I had a real fright there. Something shadowy stood in the center of the
room, moving very slightly. I almost dropped the lamp. I had a patient
once who used to say her heart “dropped a stitch.” Mine did. Then I saw
that it was a woman’s black dress hanging on a gas fixture and moving in
the air from the open kitchen door.

I began to feel uneasy. What if the house were inhabited? Certainly it
had been occupied recently. I dare say I move softly by habit, but I
doubled my ordinary caution. I wanted to get away, but I wanted more
than that. I wanted desperately to see whether there was a steel
engraving of the Landing of the Pilgrims in the attic room over the
kitchen. If I was right—if in this house Clare March had been
imprisoned—if her detail of the house next door was merely what she had
gained from a window—what was the meaning of it all? Where was Julie?
If I knew anything, this old black silk swaying in the air belonged to
her.

Not, of course, that I reasoned all this out. I felt it partly; for the
next moment I heard a door open at the top of the stairs. I blew out the
lamp instantly, but a sort of paralysis of fright kept me from flight. I
could have made it. The stairs, as in the house next door, were closed
off with a door—a dash past this door and I should have been in the
kitchen; but I hesitated, and it was too late. The steps were at the
lower door.

Now and then since that evening I have a nightmare, and it is always the
same. I am standing in a dark room and there are stealthy steps drawing
nearer and nearer. At last the thing comes toward me; I can hear it; but
there is nothing to see. And then it touches me with ice-cold hands—and
I waken with a scream. I frightened a nervous patient almost into
convulsions once because of that dream of mine.

The darkness was terrible. Behind me the dress swayed, touched me. I
almost fainted. The staircase door did not open immediately. I wondered
frantically what was standing and waiting there. It showed my abnormal
mental condition when it occurred to me that perhaps the old woman,
Julie—perhaps she was dead, and that this on the staircase was she
again, come back. I almost dropped the lamp.

I braced myself against I knew not what when I heard the door opening.
Whoever it was, was listening, I felt sure. Through the open kitchen
door came the sound of singing from next door and of someone hammering
on a table in time. It covered my gasping breaths, I dare say. The stair
door opened wider and someone stepped down into the tiny passage. We
were perhaps eight feet apart.

I lived a century, waiting to hear which way the footsteps turned. They
went toward the kitchen, still stealthily, with a caution that was more
terrible than curses. I had a moment’s respite then, and I felt my way
toward the front door. If the key was there, I might yet escape. I found
the door. The key was gone. Even in that moment of frenzy I knew where
the key was—in the buckled bag at the police station. I was trapped!

There were various sounds now from the kitchen: a match struck, and a
wavering search, probably for the lamp I held; then a dim but steady
light, as though from a candle, followed by the cautious lifting of
stovelids and much rustling of paper. The paper reminded me of
something—my bundle lay on the cot!

I knew the exact moment when it was discovered. I heard it torn open and
I shivered in the silence that followed. Then the candle went out and
there was complete silence again; but this time it was the quiet of
strained ears and quickened senses. I dream of that, too, sometimes—of
a silence that is a horror.

I dared not move a muscle. I felt that if I relaxed I should stagger. I
breathed with only the upper part of my lungs. Then, very slowly, there
was movement in the next room—a step and then another. It was coming.
While the light was burning I had been terrified by something desperate,
but at least quick with life. Now, in the darkness, it became
disembodied horror again! It came slowly but inevitably, and directly
toward me. I tried to move, but I could not. The black dress moved in
the air; a chill breath blew on me. Then, out of the black void all
round, a cold hand touched my cheek. I must have collapsed without a
sound.


                              CHAPTER VIII

When I came to, I was lying on the floor of the empty room, with the
black dress swaying above me. There was a faint light in the room. By
turning my head, I saw that it came from the kitchen. Someone was moving
quickly there; there was a rattle of china. A moment later a figure
appeared in the doorway and peered in.

“Are you awake, Miss Adams?”

It was Clare! I struggled to a sitting position and stared at her.

“Was it—you—before?” I asked.

“Yes. Don’t talk about it just now. I have a fire going and soon we can
have some tea. I think you are almost frozen—and I know I am.”

It was curious to see how our positions had been reversed. And there was
a change in Clare—she was almost cheerful. She helped me out into the
kitchen and onto the cot, and then busied herself about the room.

“I am sure there is tea somewhere,” she said, “Julie was always making
tea.”

She was dressed for the street—suit and hat and furs. She tried to make
talk as she moved about the room, but the really vital things of the
evening she avoided. She fussed with the fire, filled the kettle afresh
from a hydrant outside, rinsed out two cups, found tea, searched for
sugar. And still her eyes had not met mine.

She found me staring at an engraving that lay on the floor, however, and
she dropped her artificial manner.

“The Landing of the Pilgrims!” she said gravely. “I was going to burn
it.”

The sounds in the next house died away. The kettle on the stove began to
boil cheerfully. The little room grew bright with firelight. Clare drew
the box before the cot and poured two steaming cups of tea.

“We will drink our tea,” she said, “and then I shall tell you, Miss
Adams. I am very happy tonight—I have only one grief.”

What that was she did not say. She had found a box of biscuits and
opened it. She took very little herself. She was plainly intent on
making up to me for my fright. She seemed to bear me no malice for being
there. It was not until I had drained my cup that she put hers down.

“Now we’ll begin,” she said, and took off her jacket. Next she drew up
the sleeve of the soft blouse she wore beneath and held out her arm for
me to see. I gave a shocked exclamation.

“Cocaine!” she said briefly. “The other arm is also scarred. I got it
first at school for toothache.” I could not say anything; I only stared.
“But that’s all over now,” she went on briskly. “Today I have—but I’ll
tell you about that later. I knew there was only one way out, Miss
Adams—to do it myself. Father and Mother would have helped me, of
course; but it would have been their will, not mine. I had to educate my
own will to be strong enough. Oh, I’d thought it all out. And then—I
did not want them to know. Even now, when I know it’s over, I’m afraid
to have them know. I’ve lied to keep it from them; but the detective
knew it wasn’t true.”

She told me the whole story eagerly, frankly. It was clearly a relief.
She had made her plans that summer and made them thoroughly. She had
tried before and failed. This time there was the great incentive—she
wished to marry.

“I wanted to bring children into the world, Miss Adams,” she said. “I
should not have dared—the way things were. All summer I tried and broke
over. I was almost crazy. Then I got a letter from Julie—she had been
my German teacher at school and I was fond of her. She had been taking
care of an insane brother, who had died. She wanted to work again. Poor
Julie!

“I thought she could help me. I knew it would be hard, though I didn’t
know—well, I wrote her the whole story and told her my plan. I had been
here to see the brother with her; I knew the house. I asked her to send
out after dark for just enough to keep us going for a time. I did not
want the house opened. I thought there would be a hue and cry and they
might trace me to Julie.”

“Your father and mother said they knew of no one named Julie.”

“They would have known of her as Fräulein Schlenker. They had never seen
her. I came to the city, bought some blankets and a book or two, and
came out here. She was here and partly settled. She was against the plan
even then; but I showed her my arms and she knew I was desperate. I had
a supply of cocaine—I had got it in town. I was to have it—I should
have died without—but she was to reduce the quantity. I locked myself
in and gave her the key.”

“You had been getting the cocaine from the man with the blond hair?”

“Yes. He was in a pharmacy at first—where I got the prescription
filled. He suspected me after a time. After he lost his position, he
still got it for me. I met him wherever I could—on the street, in the
park, anywhere; but generally we met by the Embankment. He robbed me, I
think. I owed him a great deal finally. He took to bothering me about
it. I used up all my allowance and more.

“I gave Julie the cocaine; and she was to reduce it—a little at a time.
I suffered the tortures of the lost, Miss Adams—but perhaps you know.
There were many days when I wanted to kill myself; and once Julie tied
my hands behind my back. She was wonderful—wonderful! I owe it all to
her. I was lost, Miss Adams—I would lie, steal, almost murder, to get
the cocaine. I lived for it.”

“All this was here in this house?”

“Upstairs—in the back room one window looked out over a field and could
be kept unshuttered. I chose it. Besides, the fire from below heated it.
We had only a little coal left in the cellar, and we could get none.
Julie went out after dark and did our buying. It—it all took longer
than I had thought. I planned for a month. It was more than that. We
were running out of money. At the end of five weeks we were
desperate—and I sent Julie to the house.”

I remembered that well enough! But I did not interrupt.

“Father always gave me the fees from directors’ meetings; and, as they
were in gold, I dropped them under the cushion of a silver box on my
dressing table. Sometimes there would be several; most of them went
eventually to—to the man I spoke of. Before we went away in the summer,
I had put some there; I could not remember how many—my mind was
hazy—but I was sure there was perhaps fifty dollars. I had my own house
keys with me and I gave Julie the key to the garden door. She was
terribly frightened, but we were desperate. She got in without any
trouble and got it. There was forty dollars.”

I remembered something. “Forty dollars and a book,” I said, smiling.

“Forty dollars and a book—was it yours? The day came when she told me I
had had no cocaine for a week. I was faint and dizzy, but I wrote a line
to Father and Mother. I shouldn’t have written it. It could never be
reconciled with anything but the truth, and I was morbid about that.
They were never to know. I did not want Mr. Plummer to know—I thought
he would never trust me again. But I wrote it and Julie took it out. She
never came back—and I was locked in, upstairs!”

“She never came back!”

“She was killed—struck by an automobile. I thought—didn’t the
detective know that? He had her bag.”

So my little old lady was dead after all! I was sorry. What a spirit she
had!

“I was locked in,” Clare was saying. “I waited—and she did not come. I
had not eaten for a day or so before, and there were two days and a
night without even water. I was so desperate that I tried to call the
other house; but the old woman had hurt herself, and there was no one
about outside. I tried to break down the door. There was a panel in
it—for the brother who was crazy. I could almost reach the key on the
nail outside. The last day I think I was delirious. The key made faces
at me through the panel. I told you, didn’t I, about getting out of the
window?”

“Yes. When did you learn about Julie?”

“The night I went home. As you know, I went down to the library and
searched the newspapers. I felt that she had been hurt. As soon as I was
strong enough, I slipped away from the house; and—they were going to
give her a pauper’s burial. I pawned a ring and, at least, she did not
have that.”

She broke down, after keeping up bravely for so long. I gathered from
broken sentences her terrible fear of having the facts known; her
despair over the tissue of falsehood and truth that she had told Mr.
Patton; her fear of seeing her lover again until she was sure of
herself; her grief for Julie’s death and her self-accusation of it; her
terror that day when Hortense had told her that I had taken her skirt
from my closet. But after a time she looked up, smiling through her
tears.

“I am really only crying over Julie,” she said. “The rest is—all gone,
Miss Adams. I am cured—really cured! Today I sat for an hour with a
bottle of cocaine beside me, and—I did not touch it!”

                 *        *        *        *        *

That was my first case for Mr. Patton; and, though I really discovered
nothing that Clare would not have told eventually herself, he was kind
enough to say some very pleasant things.

“Though,” he said, wincing as he tried to move his leg, “courage carried
to the _n_th power is often foolishness! What possessed you to go to
that house alone?”

“I wanted to locate the Landing of the Pilgrims.”

He leaned back and looked up at me, smiling.

“Curiosity!” he said. “That was the only quality I was afraid you
lacked.” He took an envelope from the stand at his elbow and held it
out.

“Your check, as per agreement.”

“I don’t want money, Mr. Patton. I—don’t think I am silly; but I had my
reward—if I deserve one, which, of course, I don’t—when I saw Mr.
Plummer’s eyes last night. She went straight into his arms.”

“You won’t take the check?”

“No, thank you.”

“Then I’ll bank it for you. We are going to have some interesting cases
together, Miss Adams, but I wish you were back here to look after me.
There’s a spineless creature here who lets me bully her. Do you
know—you’re a queer woman! Taking as remuneration the sight of a young
girl going into her lover’s arms!”

“I’ve taken most of my pleasures and all of my sentiment vicariously for
a number of years,” I retorted. “And, even if it’s the other person’s,
sentiment one has to have!”

“Yes,” said Mr. Patton, looking at me curiously. “Sentiment one has to
have!”



The bag is before me as I write. There are two keys—one to the house in
Brickyard Road; the other to the garden door at the March home. The
lavender envelope is there and its scrawled note from Clare—simply
explained, as are all confusing things when one has a key. The envelope
had contained the vial of cocaine that Clare took with her on her
flight, and had come, of course, from the pharmacy clerk. I never
examined the clipping carefully until today. It is curious to locate
one’s mental blind spot. I had read it many times.

The reverse is an advertisement for the cure of the drug habit.

