Mr Packer dangled the heavy bunch of keys for a moment before laying it
on the table.

‘Four years is a long time to be away,’ he said.

His voice was so drily polite that Charles Moray could not fail to be
aware that in the eyes of his solicitor four years’ absence, and a
consequent neglect of all the business arising out of his father’s death
and his own succession, was a dereliction. An only son who succeeded to
a large estate had no business to walk the uttermost parts of the earth.
He should step into his place as a citizen, stand for Parliament in the
constituency represented by three generations of his family, and—settle
down.

Charles picked up the bunch of keys, looked at them with an odd fleeting
frown, and put them in his pocket.

‘You won’t be going to the house tonight, I suppose,’ said Mr Packer.

‘No. I’m staying at The Luxe. I just thought I’d look in and get the
keys.’

‘I asked because I believe—in fact I know—that the caretaker Lattery,
is out. He is always out on Thursday evening. I am aware of the fact,
because it is his practice to call at this office for his wages; he
comes very punctually at five o’clock. And I thought that if you had any
intention of calling at the house, his absence might surprise you.’

‘No, I shan’t go round there tonight,’ said Charles. He glanced at his
watch. ‘Haven’t time—Millar’s dining with me. I expect you remember
him.’

Mr Packer remembered Mr Millar; not, apparently, with enthusiasm.

Charles got up.

‘Well. I’ll be round in the morning I can sign anything you want me to
then. I hope I haven’t kept you. I’d no idea it was so late.’

He walked back to The Luxe in the dusk of the October evening—dampish,
coldish—a gloomy, depressing sort of climate to welcome a man who has
had four years of tropical sunshine.

Charles sniffed the cold wet air and found it good. It was surprisingly
good to be at home again. The rage and pain which had driven him out of
England four years ago were gone, burnt to the ash of forgetfulness by
the very fierceness of their own flame. He could think of Margaret
Langton now without either pain or anger. She was married of course; a
girl doesn’t turn a man down like that on the very eve of their wedding
unless there’s another man. No, Margaret must be married. Very likely
they would meet. He told himself that it would be quite an interesting
meeting for them both.

At The Luxe a telegram from Archie Millar—‘Awfully sorry. My Aunt
Elizabeth has wired for me. She does it once a month or so. Hard luck
she hit on tonight. Cheerio. Archie.’

Charles ate his dinner alone. During the soup he regretted Archie
Millar, but with the fish the regret passed. He did not want Archie or
Archie’s company; he did not want to go to a theatre or do a show; he
wanted vehemently and insistently to go to the house which was now his
own house, and to go to it whilst it stood empty of everything except
its memories. He didn’t want to hear Lattery’s account of his
stewardship, or to listen to Mrs Lattery deploring the way that the damp
got into things. ‘No matter what you do, sir, or how much you air—and
I’m sure I’m such a one for airing as never was.’ Her high-pitched,
querulous voice rang sharply in his ears. No, he didn’t want to talk to
Mrs Lattery. But he wanted to see the house.

His impatience grew as he walked westward facing a soft wind that was
full of rain. The house drew him. And why not? His great-grandfather had
built it; his grandfather and his father had been born there; he himself
had been born there—four generations of them—four generations of
memories. And the house stood empty, waiting for him to come to it.

A hundred years ago Thorney Lane was a real lane, whose hedgerows were
thick with thorn that blossomed white as milk in May and set its dark
red haws for birds to peck at in October. It was a paved walk now,
running from one busy thoroughfare to another, with wooden posts set
across it at either end to show that it was for the use of foot
passengers only. When Mr Archibald Moray built his big house the
thoroughfares were country roads.

Half-way up Thorney Lane a narrow alley separated the houses which
looked on to Thornhill Square from the houses of the more modern George
Street. The old lane had wandered pleasantly between high banks where
the alley ran straight between high brick walls. No. 1 Thornhill Square
was the corner house.

Charles Moray, walking up Thorney Lane turned to the right and proceeded
for about a dozen yards along the alley-way. He stopped in front of the
door in the brick wall and took out the bunch of keys which Mr Packer
had given him. This key, at least, he thought he could find in the dark.
How many times had he and Margaret walked the narrow alley in the
twilight, in the dusk, in the dark?

He wondered if the Pelhams were still at 12 George Street, and if Freddy
Pelham had learned any new stories in the last four years—Freddy and
his interminable pointless tales about nothing! Even when he had been at
the height of his love for Margaret it had been hard work to put up with
Margaret’s stepfather. Well, he wouldn’t have to laugh at Freddy’s
stories now.

He ran his fingers over the keys until they touched the one he wanted;
it had a nick in it half-way down the shaft. He let the other keys fall
away from it and put out his left hand to feel for the keyhole. His
fingers touched the cold, wet wood and slid down on to colder iron.
Under the pressure of his hand the door moved. He pushed, and it swung.
There was no need for him to use his key on a door that had stood not
only unlocked but unlatched. Lattery had grown slack indeed if he made a
practice of going out by the back way and leaving the door ajar.

It was very dark in the garden. The high brick wall cut off the last
glimmer of the lamp which was supposed to light Thorney Lane and the
alley that ran into it.

Charles walked down the flagged path with as much assurance as if he had
had daylight to show him what only his mind was showing him now. Here
the thorn tree, a seedling eighty years ago, dropped from some survivor
of the old hedge. Next, lavender bushes, sweet in the dark as he brushed
them by. The garden was of a good size, and had been larger before his
grandfather built out a ballroom upon what had once been a formal
terrace.

Charles passed the long dark windows with slender fluted columns between
them. It was inevitable that he should think of the June night which had
seen every window brilliant, open to the soft summer dusk. The dancers
had only to step out from between the pillars and descend two marble
steps to find themselves amongst flowers.

He frowned and walked on; then threw up his head and stopped. What was
that June evening to him now, that he should shirk the remembrance of
it? If the past had any ghosts, it was better to look them in the face
and bid them begone for ever. The June night rose vividly. The last
hours of his engagement to Margaret rose; he saw himself and her; her
father, proud and pleased; Margaret in white and silver, radiant and for
once beautiful. He could have sworn that the radiance and the beauty
flowed from some lamp of joy within; and, with their wedding day only a
week ahead, he had not doubted what flame burned high in that lamp of
joy. Yet next day she had sent him back his ring.

Charles stared at the dark windows. What a fool he had been! His
incredulity was the measure of his folly. He could not believe
Margaret’s own words in her own writing—not till the telephone had
failed him; not till he had forced an entrance into the Pelhams’ house,
only to hear that Margaret had left town; not till he read in every
newspaper the cold announcement that ‘the marriage arranged between Mr
Charles Moray and Miss Margaret Langton will not take place’.

Did he accept the facts? It is not a pleasant thing to be jilted.
Charles Moray flung out of England in as bitter a rage as the galling
humiliation warranted. He had never had to think of money in his life:
if he wanted to travel he could travel. His father made no demur. India
first, and Tibet; then China—the hidden, difficult, dangerous China
which only a few Europeans know. Then in Peking he fell in with Justin
Parr, and Parr persuaded him into an enthusiasm for the unexplored
tracts of South America.

He was still hesitating, when his father died suddenly; and there being
nothing to come home for, he set off with Parr on a voyage of adventure
with a secret unacknowledged lure, the hope of forgetting Margaret.

Charles looked steadily at these ghosts of his and saw them vanish into
the dark, thin air. He was immensely pleased with himself for having
faced them, and it was with a glow of self-approbation that he came to
the end of the flagged path and groped for the handle of the garden
door.

The glow changed to one of anger. This door was open too. He began to
have serious thoughts of celebrating his return by sacking Lattery. He
stepped into a passage. It ran a few feet and ended in a swing door
which gave upon the hall. There was a light here; not one of the hanging
lamps which could flood the whole place, but a small, discreet shaded
affair set away in a corner.

There is something very melancholy about a big empty house. Charles
looked at the light and wondered if this house was really empty. It
ought to have felt empty. But it didn’t. And he ought, perhaps, to have
felt melancholy. Instead, he was experiencing a certain elated feeling
which was partly expectancy, and partly the instinct that scents
adventure. He went up the stairs and turned into the right-hand
corridor. This floor was in darkness. A faint glow came up from the well
of the stairs and made the gloom visible. He had his hand on the switch
which controlled the light, when he paused and after a moment let his
hand fall again.

At the end of the corridor two doors faced each other. The right-hand
door was invisible in the darkness, but across the threshold of the
left-hand door lay a faint pencilling of light.

Charles looked at this pencilling, and told himself that Mrs Lattery was
in the room. All the same he walked softly, and when he reached the door
he stood still, listening. And as he stood, he heard one man speak and
another answer him.

Moving quite noiselessly, he stepped backwards until he could touch the
opposite door; then, putting his hand behind him, he turned the handle,
passed into the dark room, and closed the door again.

The room into which he had come was the one which had been his mother’s
bedroom. The room opposite was her sitting-room, and between the two,
across the end of the corridor, there ran a windowless cupboard—a
delightful place for a child to play in. He could remember his mother’s
dresses hanging there, silken, lavender scented, whispering when you
touched them. She died when he was ten; and then there were no more
dresses hanging there.

Charles opened the door very softly. The seven feet of black emptiness
gave out a cold, musty smell—Mrs Lattery had not done very much of her
boasted airing here. He went forward into the blackness until his
fingers touched the panelling on the far side of it. Long ago there had
been a door here too; but it had been shut up to make more space for Mrs
Moray’s dresses. The keyhole had been filled and the handle removed.

Charles had regretted the keyhole. It had figured in his games, and he
could still remember the thrill with which he had discovered a peep-hole
which replaced it handsomely. Four feet from the floor on the extreme
edge of the panelling a knot hole had been filled with glue and sawdust
stained to match the wood of the door. With infinite patience the little
boy of nine had loosened the filling until it could be withdrawn at will
like a cork. It was the memory of this peep-hole which brought him into
the cupboard now. An unlatched gate, and an open door, and men’s
voices—these things seemed to require an explanation.

He knelt down, felt for the knot-hole, and gently, cautiously, pulled
out the plug that filled it.




                               Chapter II


Charles Moray looked through the hole in the panelling and saw what
surprised him very much. The room beyond was half in shadow and half in
light. There was a lamp with a tilted shade on the rosewood table which
held his mother’s photograph albums. It stood perched on the fattest
album with its green silk shade tipped back so as to throw all the light
towards the door.

Charles drew back instinctively lest he should be seen; but the ray fell
away to the left of his panelling and was focused on the door across
whose threshold he had seen the pencilled line of light.

There were two men sitting at the table. One of them had his back to
Charles, who could see no more than a black overcoat and a felt hat. The
other man was in the shadow facing him. Charles, peering and intrigued,
beheld a white shirt-front framed, as it were, in a sort of loose black
cloak. Above the shirt front a blur, formless and featureless. Certainly
the man had a head; but, as certainly, he seemed to have no face.
However deep the shadow, you ought to be able to see the line where the
hair meets the forehead, and the outline of the jaw.

Charles drew a longish breath. The man didn’t seem to have any hair or
any jaw; he was just a shirt front and a cloak and a greyish blur that
had no form or feature. It was rather beastly.

Then as he felt the short hairs on his neck begin to prickle, the man
with his back to him said,

‘Suppose there’s a certificate?’

The shoulders under the black cloak were shrugged; a deep, soft voice
gave an answer;

‘If there’s a certificate, so much the worse for the girl.’

‘What do you mean?’ The first man hurried over the question.

‘Why, she must go of course. I should think a street accident would be
the safest way.’ The words were spoken with a gentle, indifferent
inflexion. The man in the shadow lifted a paper, looked down at it with
that blur of a face, and inquired, ‘You are sure there was no will?’

‘Oh, quite sure. The lawyer took care of that.’

‘There might have been a second one—millionaires have a curious passion
for making wills.’

‘Twenty-seven was quite sure. Here’s his report. Will you look at it?’

A paper passed. The lamp was turned a little, the shade adjusted.
Charles saw the light touch part of a hand, and saw that the hand wore a
grey rubber glove. His heart gave a jump.

‘By gum! That’s what he’s got on his face too! Beastly! All over his
face and head—grey rubber—a grey rubber mask!’

The lamp was his mother’s reading-lamp. The room, unused since her
death, remained for Charles Moray a place of warmth and shaded light, a
place where he mustn’t make a noise, a fire-lit evening place where he
sat cross-legged on the floor beside a sofa and a soft, tired voice told
him stories. What were these unbelievable people doing in this place? It
made him feel rather sick to see the light slant from the reading-lamp
across that grey, smooth hand on to the pages of Twenty-seven’s report;
it made him very angry too. Of all the infernal cheek—

The pages turned with an even flick; Grey Mask was a quick reader. He
dropped the report in a heap and said, in that deep purring voice,

‘Is Twenty-seven here?’

The other man nodded.

‘Are you ready for him?’

‘Yes.’

Charles jerked back from his peep-hole. Someone had moved so near him
that the recoil was instinctive. Coming cautiously forward again, he
became aware that there was a third man in the room, away on his left,
keeping guard over the door. When he stood close to the door he was out
of sight; but when he opened it he came sufficiently forward to be
visible as a blue serge suit and the sort of khaki muffler which
everybody’s aunts turned out by the gross during the war. The muffler
came up so high that the fellow was really only a suit of clothes and a
scarf.

Through the open door there came a man who looked like a commercial
traveller. He wore a large overcoat and a bowler hat. Charles never got
a glimpse of his face. He walked up to the table with an air of
assurance and looked about him for a chair.

There was no chair within reach, and under Grey Mask’s silent, unmoving
stare some of the assurance seemed to evaporate. The stare was a very
curious one, for the holes in the smooth grey face were not eye-shaped
but square—small square holes like dark dice on a grey ground. They
gave Charles himself an indescribable feeling of being watched.

‘Twenty-seven—’ said Grey Mask.

‘Come to report.’

Grey Mask tapped the sheets of the written report sharply.

‘Your report is too long. It leaves out essentials. There’s too much
about you—not enough about the facts. For instance, you say the lawyer
took care of the will. Did he destroy it?’

Twenty-seven hesitated. Charles suspected him of a desire to hedge.

‘Did he?’

‘Well—yes, he did.’

‘How?’

‘Burnt it.’

‘Witnesses?’

‘One’s dead. The other—’

‘Well?’

‘I don’t know. It’s a woman.’

‘Her name?’

‘Mary Brown—spinster.’

‘Know who she was?’

‘No.’

‘Find out and report again. That’s essential. Then there’s another
point. There was no certificate?’

‘No.’

‘Sure?’

‘I couldn’t find one. The lawyer doesn’t know of one. I don’t believe
there is one—I don’t believe there was a marriage.’

‘Too much “you”,’ said Grey Mask. ‘Find out about that witness. You can
go now.’

The man went, looking over his shoulder as if he were expecting to be
called back.

Charles did not see his face at all. He was cursing himself for a fool.
He ought to have got downstairs before Twenty-seven. He had his plan all
made, and he ought to have been attending to it instead of listening to
the gentleman confessing his criminal activities. Twenty-seven would now
get away, whereas if Charles had cut along the corridor and locked the
door at the end of it, he might very well have had a bag of four waiting
for the police.

At a very early stage of this interview his thoughts had dwelt hopefully
on the fact, so much deplored by Mr Packer, that his telephone
subscription had been kept going during those four years of absence.

Twenty-seven had faded—must fade if the other three were to be bagged.
It was a pity; but perhaps the police would gather him in later.

‘I’ll get along,’ said Charles; and as he said it, he heard the
invisible man on his left move again. He moved and he said, in a
whispering Cockney voice.

‘Twenty-six is ’ere, guvnor.’

Grey Mask nodded. He had pushed Twenty-seven’s report across the table,
and the other man was straightening the sheets and laying them tidily
together.

‘Shall I let ’er in?’ The ‘’er’ brought Charles’s eye back to the
knot-hole again. He had withdrawn it an inch or two preparatory to
getting noiselessly on to his feet; but the Cockney’s ‘Shall I let ’er
in’ intrigued him.

There was the sound of the opening door. The blue serge suit and the
khaki muffler bulged into view again, and, passing them, there came a
straight black back and a close black cap with a long fold of black
gauzy stuff that crossed the cap like a veil and hung down in two
floating ends.

Charles received such a shock that the room went blank for a moment. He
saw, and did not see; heard words, and made no sense of what he heard.
He was within an ace of lurching sideways, and actually thrust out a
hand to save his balance. The hand encountered the panelling against
which his mother’s dresses used to hang. He kept it there pressed out
against the cold wood, whilst with all his might he stared at the
straight black back of Number 26 and told himself with a vehement
iteration that this was not, and could not be, Margaret Langton.

The iteration died; the rushing sound that filled his ears dwindled. His
hand pressed the wall. The blankness passed. He saw the room, with its
familiar furnishings—the blue curtains, dark and shadowy; the faded
carpet with the wreaths of blue flowers on a fawn-coloured ground; the
table with the photograph albums and the lamp with its tilted shade. The
ray of light crossing the room showed him the edge of the closing door.
It passed out of sight and shut without a sound.

Margaret was standing with her back to him. Margaret was standing at the
table with her back to him. The light would miss her face because she
was standing above it. He needed neither the sight of that face nor any
light upon it to be sure that it was Margaret who was standing there.
Her hands were in the light. They were ungloved. She was putting down a
packet of papers; they looked like letters.

Charles saw the hands that were more familiar to him than any of the
familiar things in the room which he had known ever since he had known
anything at all. He looked at Margaret’s hands. He had always thought
them the most beautiful hands that he had ever seen—not small or
slender, but strong white hands, beautifully formed, cool and alive to
the touch. The hands were quite bare. He had made sure that Margaret was
married, but there was no wedding ring on the finger that had worn his
square emerald.

As he saw these things he became aware that Margaret was speaking, her
voice so very low that the sound barely reached him and the words did
not reach him at all. She stood holding the edge of the table and
speaking in that low voice; and then with a quick movement she turned
and came back along the ray of light to the door, which swung open to
pass her through. The light was at her back. The scarf with the floating
ends veiled her face. She moved with her old free step and the little
swing of the shoulders that he knew by heart. She held up her head. The
ends of the scarf moved behind her. She passed through the door and was
gone. The door shut.

Charles drew a very long breath. He had not seen her face.




                              Chapter III


Charles continued to look into the room. The place where Margaret had
stood was just at the edge of where the thick double wreath of fat blue
flowers began to twine itself about a central medallion. There was a
little worn place just to the right of where she had stood. He stared at
the worn place. Margaret had been here and was gone again—_Margaret_.
Well, that put the lid on telephoning to the police. Yes, by gum it did!

A quick spasm of laughter shook him. He had said that it would be
interesting to meet Margaret again—_interesting_.

‘Oh, my hat!’ said Charles to himself.

Interesting enough—yes, and a bit to spare if he and Margaret were to
meet in a crowded police court. A very pretty romantic scene. ‘Do you
recognize this woman?’ ‘Oh yes, I almost married her once.’ Headlines
from the evening paper rose luridly: ‘Parted Lovers meet in Police
Court.’ ‘Jilted Explorer and Lost Bride.’ ‘Should Women become
Criminals?’ No, the police were off.

He came back from the headlines at the sound of a name:

‘Margot.’ It was the man sitting at the table with his back to him who
had spoken.

Charles withdrew his hand from the wall and listened intently. He had
thought for a moment that the fellow was going to say Margaret. Then he
heard the man say,

‘Thirty-two is kicking.’

Grey Mask moved one of the smooth gloved hands; the gesture indicated
that Thirty-two and any possible protest he might make were equally
negligible.

‘He is kicking all the same.’

Grey Mask spoke; the purr was a sneer.

‘Can a jelly-fish kick? What’s it all about?’

The man with his back to Charles shrugged his shoulders.

‘Says ten per cent isn’t worth the risk.’

‘Where’s the risk? He gets the money quite legally.’

‘Says he ought to get more than ten per cent—says he doesn’t want to
marry the girl—says he’ll be hanged if he marries her.’

Grey Mask leaned a little forward.

‘Well, he won’t be _hanged_ if he doesn’t do what he’s told, but he’ll
go down for a seven years’ stretch. Tell him so.’ He scribbled on a
piece of paper and pushed it over. ‘Give him this. If he doesn’t prefer
liberty, ten per cent, and a pretty wife to seven years’ hard, he can
have the seven years. He won’t like it.’

The other man took up the paper.

‘He says he doesn’t know why he should marry the girl. I told him I’d
put that to you. Why should he?’

‘Provides for her—looks well—keeps her quiet—keeps her friends
quiet.’

The other man spoke quickly:

‘Then you think there might be a certificate?’

‘I’m not taking risks. Tell Thirty-two he’s to use the letter as we
arranged.’

‘Then you do think—’

There was no answer. The other man spoke again:

‘There’s nothing at Somerset House. Isn’t that good enough?’

‘Not quite. Everyone doesn’t get married at their parish church or the
nearest registry office—everyone doesn’t even get married in England.’

‘Was he married?’

Grey Mask straightened the shade of the reading-lamp; the lane of light
that had led to the door disappeared.

‘If Forty there had ears, he could answer that question.’

‘Forty—’

‘Perhaps. Forty says he used to walk up and down the deck. He says he
talked. Perhaps he said something; perhaps he talked of things he
wouldn’t have talked about if he hadn’t known that Forty would be none
the wiser. In the end the sea got him and none of us are any the wiser.
Pity Forty there never learned lip-reading.’

He lifted his hand and signalled with it. Forty, then, was the janitor.
And he was stone-deaf—useful in a way of course, but awkward too.
Charles wondered how he knew when there was anyone on the other side of
the door. Of course if he had his hand on the panel and anyone knocked,
he would feel the vibration. Yes, it could be done that way—a code of
signals too.

He had just reached this point, when the light went out. The door had
begun to open, and then Grey Mask put his hand to the switch of the
lamp, and the room went dark, with just one blur of greenish dusk which
faded and was gone in the gloom.

Charles got up. He was rather stiff. He got back into his mother’s room
without making any noise, and before he put his hand on the door, he
stood for an instant listening, and could hear no sound. He would have
liked to rush them from behind, catch them perhaps at the head of the
stairs and send them sprawling, a loud war-whoop and their own bad
consciences to aid. It might have been a very pleasant affair. He liked
to think of Forty’s square bulk coming down with a good resounding thud
upon the wild writhings of the other two.

Hang Margaret! If she hadn’t come butting into heaven knew what of a
dirty criminal conspiracy, he might have been really enjoying himself.
Instead, he must mark time, must tiptoe through his own house after a
pack of scallywags.

Charles tiptoed. He reached the head of the stairs and looked down into
the hall. Someone moved in the twilight; a light went on. Lattery, the
caretaker, crossed the lighted space whistling _Way Down Upon the Swanee
River_. He whistled flat.

Charles charged down the stairs and arrived like an exploding bomb.

‘Where the devil have you been, and what the devil have you been doing?’

Lattery stared, and his knees shook under him; his big stupid face took
on a greenish hue.

Charles ran to the garden door. It was still open. He ran up the garden,
and heard the door in the wall fall to with a slam. By the time he got
it open and burst into the alley, someone was disappearing round the
corner into Thorney Lane. He sprinted to the corner and round it. The
someone was a whistling errand boy with a crop of red hair that showed
pure ginger under the street lamp.

At the bottom of Thorney Lane there was a woman. He ran after her. When
he reached the roaring thoroughfare, there were half a dozen women on
every couple of yards of pavement. The two big cinemas at either end of
the street had just come out.

He went back to the house in a black bad temper.




                               Chapter IV


He interviewed Lattery, and could not determine whether he had to do
with an unfaithful steward or a great stupid oaf who was scared to death
by the sudden apparition of a gentleman whom he believed to be some
thousands of miles away.

‘Where had you been?’

‘Seeing it was Thursday,’ said Lattery in his slow perplexed voice.

‘Where had you been?’

‘Seeing it was Thursday, Mr Charles—I beg your pardon, _sir_—seeing it
was Thursday and the day I take my pay from the lawyer same as he
arranged—and I put it to him fair and square, and so he’ll tell you. I
put it to him, sir, wouldn’t it be convenient for to fix on Thursday for
me to take the evening off like? And the lawyer he says to me—and one
of his clerks was in the room and could tell you the same—he says to me
as how there wasn’t any objection.’

‘Thursday’s your evening off?’

‘Yes, Mr Charles—I beg your pardon—_sir_.’

‘You always go out on Thursday?’

‘Yes, sir.’

Lattery’s face had regained its florid colour, but his round eyes dwelt
anxiously on Charles.

‘Do you always leave the garden door open?’ Charles shot the question at
him suddenly.

‘The garden door, sir?’

‘The door from the little passage into the garden. Do you generally
leave it open?’

‘No, sir.’

‘Why did you leave it open tonight?’

‘Was it open, sir?’

‘Don’t you know it was? Didn’t you come in that way?’

‘I come in through the front door,’ said Lattery, staring.

They were in the study, which opened out of the hall. Charles crossed to
the door, flung it open wide, and looked across.

‘If you came in through the front door, who bolted it and put up the
chain?’

‘Please, sir, I did.’

Charles felt a little ridiculous. He banged the door and came back to
his seat.

‘When I reached this house an hour ago,’ he said, ‘the door on the
alley-way was open. I came in by it. The garden door was open, and I
came into the house by that. I went upstairs, and there was a light in
my mother’s sitting-room.’

‘Someone must have left it on, sir.’

‘The people who left it on were still in the room,’ said Charles drily.
‘They were men—three of them. And they got away down the stair just
before me. Are you going to tell me you didn’t see anything?’

‘I take my oath I didn’t see anything.’

‘Or hear anything?’

Lattery hesitated.

‘I sort of thought I heard a door bang—yes, I certainly thought I heard
a door, for it come into my mind that the missus was early.’




                               Chapter V


Miss Standing sighed, sniffed, dabbed her eyes with rather a
tired-looking handkerchief, and plunged an experienced finger and thumb
into the depths of a large box of Fuller’s chocolates. Having selected a
luscious and melting chocolate cream, she sighed again and continued the
letter which she had just began. She wrote on a pad propped against her
knee, and she addressed the bosom friend whom she left behind only two
days before at Madame Mardon’s very select and expensive Swiss Academy.
The words, ‘My darling angel Stephanie’, were scrawled across the pale
blue page.

Miss Standing sucked at her chocolates and wrote on:

    It’s all too perfectly horrid and beastly for words. All the way
    across M’amselle could only tell me that poor papa had died
    suddenly. She said there was only that in the telegram, and that
    I was to come home. And when I got here last night, there wasn’t
    any Mrs Beauchamp like there always is in the holidays, and the
    servants looked odd. And M’amselle went off this morning, and I
    don’t really know what’s happened, except that Papa was at sea
    in his yacht somewhere in the Mediterranean. So there isn’t any
    funeral or anything, and of course I haven’t got any black—only
    just the things I came away with. And it’s all frightfully
    miserable. If you don’t write to me, I shall die. It’s frightful
    not to have anyone to talk to. The lawyer—Papa’s lawyer—is
    coming to talk to me this morning. He telephoned to say he was
    coming. I suppose I shall be simply frightfully rich. But it’s
    so depressing. It makes me wish I’d got some relations, even
    frightfully dull ones like Sophy Weir’s. _Do_ you remember her
    aunt’s hat? I haven’t any relations at all except my cousin
    Egbert, and I’d rather have no relations than him—so would
    anyone. He’s the most appalling mug you ever saw.

Miss Standing frowned at the word _appalling_, which she had written
with one p and two l’s. It didn’t look quite right. She took another
chocolate, struck out one of the l’s, put in another p, and continued:

    I shan’t come back to school of course. After all, I am
    eighteen, and they can’t make me. I do wonder if I shall have a
    guardian. In books the girl always marries her guardian, which I
    think is too frightfully dull for words. You’ll have to come and
    stay with me, and we’ll have a frightfully good time.

She stopped and heaved a sigh, because of course Stephanie wouldn’t be
able to come till Christmas, and Christmas, to use Miss Standing’s own
simple vocabulary, was a frightfully long way off—nearly three months.

She stared gloomily into the rich and solemn room. It was a very large
room, running from front to back of the big London house, and it had the
ordered richness of a shrine rather than any air of everyday comfort.
There were priceless Persian rugs upon the floor, dim with the exquisite
colouring of a bygone age. The curtains were of historic brocade, woven
at Lyons before Lyons ran blood in the days of the Terror. The panelling
on the walls had come from a house in the Netherlands, a house in which
the great Duke of Alba had lived. On this panelling hung the Standing
Collection; each picture a fortune and a collector’s
prize—Gainsborough; Sir Joshua; Van Dyck; Lely; Franz Hals; Turner. No
moderns.

Miss Standing frowned at the pictures; she thought them hideous and
gloomy and depressing. She hated the whole room. But when she began to
think of what she would do to it to make it look different, she got the
sort of feeling that there would be something almost sacrilegious about
doing anything to it at all. A pink carpet now, and a white wallpaper to
cover up all that dark wood. It was silly to feel as if she had laughed
in church; but that was the sort of feeling she got.

She consoled herself with a very succulent chocolate. It had a nougat
centre. The very sofa on which she was sitting was like a sort of stage
funeral pyre, all purple and gold and silver.

‘I wonder what I shall look like in black. Some people look so frightful
in it. But that silly man who came to the fete with the De Chauvignys
said I ought to wear it—he said it would flatter me very much. And of
course people always do say that fair women look nicer in black than in
anything else. It’s a frightfully dull thing to look nice in.’

Miss Standing opened a little leather vanity case which lay beside the
box of chocolates. She took out a powder puff and a tiny mirror and
began to powder her nose. The powder had a very strong scent of
carnations. A glance in the mirror never failed to have a cheering
effect. It is very difficult to go on being unhappy when you can see
that you have a skin of milk and roses, golden brown hair with a natural
wave, and eyes that are much larger and bluer than those of any other
girl you know.

Margot Standing’s eyes really were rather remarkable. They were of a
very pale blue, and if they had not been surrounded by ridiculously long
black lashes they might have spoilt her looks; as it was the contrast of
dark lashes and pale bright eyes gave her prettiness a touch of exotic
beauty. She was of middle height, with a pretty, rather plump figure,
and a trick of falling from one graceful pose into another. She wore a
pleated skirt of blue serge and a white woollen jumper, both very plain;
but the white wool was the softest Angora, and the serge skirt had come
from a famous house in Paris.

A door at the far end of the room was opened. William, the stupidest of
the footmen, murmured something inarticulate, and Mr James Hale came
slowly across the Persian carpet. Margot had never seen him before. He
was her father’s lawyer and that sounded dull enough; but she thought he
looked even duller than that—so very stiff, so very tall, so narrow in
the shoulder, and so hairless about the brow. She said ‘Ouf!’ to herself
as she got up rather languidly to meet him.

Mr Hale had a limp, cold hand. He said ‘How do you do, Miss Standing?’
and cleared his throat. Then Margot sat down, and he sat down, and there
was a silence, during which Mr Hale laid the dispatch-case he had been
carrying upon a chair at his side and proceeded to open it.

He looked up to find a box of chocolates under his nose.

‘Do have one. The long ones are hard, but the round ones are a dream.’

‘No thank you,’ said Mr Hale.

Margot took one of the round ones herself. She had eaten so many
chocolates already that it was necessary to crunch it quickly in order
to get the flavour. She crunched it, and Mr Hale waited disapprovingly
until she had finished. He wished to offer her his condolences upon her
father’s death, and it appeared to him in the highest degree unseemly
that he should do so whilst she was eating chocolates.

As she immediately replaced the chocolate by another, he abandoned the
condolences altogether and plunged into business.

‘I have come, Miss Standing, to ask you if you have any knowledge of the
whereabouts of Mr Standing’s will.’

Margot shook her head.

‘Why, how on earth should I?’

‘I don’t know. Your father might have spoken to you on the subject.’

‘But I haven’t seem him for three years.’

‘So long as that?’

Miss Standing nodded.

‘He was very seldom here for the holidays, anyhow, and the last three
years he was always in America, or Germany, or Italy or some of those
places.’

‘Not Switzerland? You were at school in Switzerland, I believe.’

‘Never Switzerland,’ declared Miss Standing taking another chocolate.

‘Did he ever write to you about his will?’

Margot’s eyes opened to their fullest extent.

‘Good gracious no! Why, he practically never wrote to me at all.’

‘That,’ said Mr Hale, ‘is unfortunate. You see, Miss Standing, we are in
a difficulty. Your father’s affairs have been in our hands for the last
fifteen years. But it was my father who had full knowledge of them. I
know that he and the late Mr Standing were upon terms of considerable
intimacy; and if my father was still with us, the whole matter would
probably be cleared up in a few minutes.’

‘Isn’t your father with you?’

Mr Hale cleared his throat and fingered a black tie.

‘My father died a month ago.’

‘Oh,’ said Miss Standing. Then she paused, leaned forward with a sudden
graceful change of attitude, and said, ‘Nobody’s told me anything about
Papa. M’amselle said she didn’t know—only what was in the telegram, you
know. You sent it, didn’t you? And so I don’t really know anything at
all.’

‘Mr Standing died very suddenly,’ said Mr Hale. ‘He was in his yacht off
Majorca.’

Margot repeated the name.

‘Where is Majorca?’

Mr Hale informed her. He also put her in possession of what he termed
‘the sad particulars’ of her father’s death. It appeared that the yacht
had been caught in a heavy gale, and that Mr Standing, who refused to
leave the deck, had been washed overboard.

Mr Hale at this point offered his belated condolences, after which he
cleared his throat and added:

‘Unfortunately we are quite unable to trace any will, or to obtain any
evidence that would lead us to suppose that he had ever made one.’

‘Does it matter?’ asked Margot indifferently.

Mr Hale frowned. ‘It matters a good deal to you, Miss Standing.’

‘Does it?’

‘I am afraid that it does.’

‘But I’m his daughter anyway. Why should it matter about a will? There’s
only me, isn’t there?’ Her tone was still indifferent. Mr Hale was an
old fuss-pot. He wasn’t a man at all; he was just a suit of black
clothes and a disapproving frown. She said with sudden irrelevance:
‘Please, I want some money. I haven’t got any. I bought the chocolates
with my last bean. I made M’amselle stop the taxi whilst I rushed in and
got them. Everything was so frightfully dismal I felt I should expire if
I didn’t have chocs—it takes me that way, you know.’

Mr Hale took no notice of this. Instead, he asked, with a gravity that
was almost severe.

‘Do you remember your mother at all?’

‘No—of course not. I was only two.’

‘When she died?’

‘I suppose so.’

‘Miss Standing, can you tell me your mother’s maiden name?’

She shook her head.

‘Come! Surely you must know it!’

‘I don’t.’ She hesitated and then added, ‘I think I was called after
her.’

‘Yes? What are your names?’

‘I’ve only got one. I think I was christened Margaret, and I think
perhaps it was my mother’s name. I’ve always been called Margot.’

‘Miss Standing, did your father never speak about your mother?’

‘No, he didn’t. I keep telling you he practically never spoke to me at
all. He was always frightfully busy. He never _talked_ to me.’

‘Then what makes you think you were called after your mother?’

A slight blush made Miss Standing prettier than before.

‘There was a picture that he kept locked. You know—the sort with doors
and a keyhole, and a miniature inside. I always wanted to know what was
in it.’

‘Well?’

Miss Standing shut her lips tightly.

‘I don’t know that I ought to tell you,’ she said with an air of virtue.

‘I think you _must_ tell me,’ said Mr Hale.

Something in his voice frightened her. She drew back, looked at him out
of startled eyes, and began to tell him in a hurrying, uncertain voice.

‘I wasn’t supposed to go into the study. But one evening I went because
I thought he was out. And he wasn’t. And when I heard him coming I had
only just time to get behind the curtains. It was frightful, because I
thought he was never going to go away, and I thought I should be there
all night.’

‘Yes? Go on.’

‘He wrote letters, and he walked up and down. And then he gave a sort of
groan, and I was so frightened I looked out. And he was opening the
picture. He opened it with a little key off his watch-chain. And when
he’d opened it he went on looking at it for simply ages. And once he
gave another groan, and he said “Margaret” twice in a sort of whisper.’

‘Quite so,’ said Mr Hale.

The colour rushed into Margaret’s cheeks.

‘Why do you say that, just as if I was telling you about the weather,
instead of a frightfully secret, romantic sort of thing like I _was_
telling you about?’

‘My dear Miss Standing!’

‘It was frightfully thrilling.’

‘Did you see the picture?’

‘N-no. Well. I just got a peep at it—when he turned round you know.’

‘Yes?’

‘It was a miniature, and it had little diamonds all round it. They
sparkled like anything, and I could just see that she was fair like me.
And that’s all. I just saw her for a moment. She was awfully pretty.’

Mr Hale cleared his throat.

‘There is, of course, no evidence to show that the miniature was a
portrait of your mother.’

‘Why, of course it was!’

‘It may have been. May I ask if the picture is in the house?’

‘He always took it away with him. Perhaps it’s on the yacht.’

‘I’m afraid it went overboard with him. The steward spoke of a portrait
such as you describe; he said Mr Standing carried it about with him.
Now, Miss Standing, you are quite sure that you have no knowledge of
your mother’s maiden name?’

‘I told you I hadn’t.’

‘Or where your father met her?’

Margot shook her head.

‘You don’t know where they were married?’

‘No. I don’t know anything at all—I told you I didn’t.’

‘Do you know where you were born?’

‘N-no. At least—No, I don’t know.’

‘What were you going to say? You were going to say something.’

‘Only—no, I don’t know anything—only I don’t think I was born in
England.’

‘Ah! Can you tell me why?’

‘He said—it was long ago when I was a little girl—he said, talking
about himself, that he was born in Africa. And I said “Where was I
born?” And he said “A long way from here”. So I thought perhaps I wasn’t
born in England.’

Mr Hale made the clicking noise with his tongue which is generally
written ‘Tut-tut!’ It expressed contempt for this reminiscence. As
evidence it simply didn’t exist. He cleared his throat more portentously
than before.

‘Miss Standing, if no will is found, and no certificate of your mother’s
marriage or of your own birth is forthcoming, your position becomes
extremely serious.’

Margot paused with a chocolate on its way to her mouth.

‘Why does it become serious? I’m Papa’s daughter.’

‘There is no proof even of that,’ said Mr Hale.

Margot burst out laughing.

‘Oh!’ she said. ‘How frightfully funny that sounds! Why everyone knows
I’m his daughter! How frightfully funny you are! Who do you think I am,
if I’m not Margot Standing? Why, it’s too silly!’

Mr Hale frowned.

‘Miss Standing, this is a very serious matter, and I beg that you will
treat it seriously. I do not believe that Mr Standing made a will. I
know that he had not made one six weeks ago, for he paid my father a
visit on the twentieth of August, and after he had gone my father told
me that he had been urging upon Mr Standing the necessity of making his
will. My father then used these words: “It is a very strange thing,” he
said, “that a man in Mr Standing’s circumstances should have deferred
such a simple and necessary action as the making of a will. And in his
daughter’s peculiar circumstances he certainly owes it to her to make
sure of her provision.” Now, Miss Standing, those are the exact words my
father used, and I take them to mean that he was cognizant of some
irregularity in your position.’

Margot opened her eyes very wide indeed.

‘What on earth do you mean?’

‘In the absence of any information about your mother, and in the light
of what my father said—’

‘Good gracious! What _do_ you mean?’

‘I mean,’ said Mr Hale, ‘that it is possible that there was no
marriage.’

‘But good gracious, there’s _me_!’ said Miss Standing.

‘It is possible that you are illegitimate.’

Miss Standing gazed at him in silence. After a moment she repeated the
word illegitimate in a tentative way; it seemed to touch a chord. She
brightened visibly and said in a tone full of interest.

‘Like William the Conqueror—and all those sons of Charles II?’

‘Quite so,’ said Mr Hale.

‘How _frightfully_ thrilling!’ exclaimed Miss Standing.




                               Chapter VI


When Mr Hale had finished explaining the exact legal position of an
illegitimate daughter whose father had died intestate, Miss Standing’s
eyes were round with indignation.

‘I never heard anything so frightfully unjust in all my life,’ she said
firmly.

‘I’m afraid that doesn’t alter the law.’

‘What’s the good of women having the vote then? I thought all those
frightful unjust laws were going to be altered at once when women get
the vote. Miss Clay always said so.’

Mr Hale had never heard of Miss Clay, who was in fact an undermistress
at Mme Mardon’s. He himself had always been opposed to women’s suffrage.

‘Do you mean to say’—Miss Standing sat bolt upright with her plump
hands clasped on her blue serge knee—‘do you actually mean to say that
I don’t get anything?’

‘You are not legally entitled to anything.’

‘How absolutely disgraceful! Do you mean to say that Papa had millions
and millions, and I don’t get any of it at all? Who gets it if I don’t?
I suppose somebody does get it. Or does Government just _steal_ it all?’

‘Your cousin, Mr Egbert Standing, is the heir-at-law. He
will—er—doubtless consider the propriety of making you an allowance.’

Miss Standing sprang to her feet.

‘Egbert! You’re joking—you _must_ be joking!’

Mr Hale looked the offence which he felt.

‘_Really_, Miss Standing!’

Margot stamped her foot.

‘I don’t believe a single word of it. Papa didn’t even like Egbert. He
said he was a parasite. I remember quite well, because I didn’t know
what the word meant, and I asked him, and he made me look it up in the
dictionary. And he said he didn’t know what he’d done to deserve having
Egbert for a nephew. He said it was a great pity someone hadn’t drowned
his brother Robert when he was a baby, because then he couldn’t have had
Egbert. That’s what Papa said, and do you suppose he’d want his money,
and all his things, and his pictures to go to someone he felt like that
about? Papa simply adored those horrible gloomy pictures, and he’d hate
Egbert to have them. Egbert adores them too—I can’t think why—and that
used to make Papa angrier than anything else. Aren’t people funny?’

When Mr Hale had taken his leave, Margot continued her letter to
Stephanie.

    Oh, Stephanie, he’s been! Mr Hale, the lawyer, I mean. He’s the
    most frightful old stiff, with the sort of boring voice that
    makes you go to sleep in church when a parson has it. Only I
    didn’t go to sleep, because he was saying the most frightfully
    devastating sort of things. There are a whole heap of the most
    frightful family secrets, and he says he thinks I’m illegitimate
    like the people in history. And I didn’t know anyone ever was
    except in history books. But he says he thinks I am, because he
    doesn’t think my father was ever married to my mother. And I
    don’t understand about it, but he says there isn’t any
    certificate of their being married, and there isn’t any
    certificate of my being born. And doesn’t that just show how
    stupid the whole thing is? Because if I hadn’t been born, I
    shouldn’t be here. So I can’t see what on earth anyone wants a
    certificate for. And he says I shan’t have any money ...

Mr Hale returned to his office, where he presently interviewed Mr Egbert
Standing. He had not met him before, and he looked at him now with some
disfavour. Mr Hale did not like fat young men: he did not like young men
who lolled; he disapproved of bow ties with loose ends, and of scented
cigarettes. He regarded the curl in Egbert’s hair with well-founded
suspicion. For a short moment he shared a sentiment with Miss Margot
Standing—he did not like Egbert. The young clerk who took notes in the
corner did not like him either.

Everything else apart, Mr Egbert Standing was a most difficult person to
do business with. He lolled and yawned, and ran his fingers through the
artificial waves of his mouse-coloured hair. He had a round featureless
face with light eyes, light lashes, and no eyebrows. Mr Hale disliked
him very much indeed. It seemed impossible to get him to take any
interest either in Miss Standing’s predicament or his own position as
heir-at-law.

Mr Hale repeated Mr Hale senior’s remarks very much as he had repeated
them to Margot.

‘My father left me in no doubt that there was some irregularity in Miss
Standing’s position. He pressed Mr Standing to make a will, but Mr
Standing put the matter aside. I am quite sure that my father knew more
than he told me. I believe that he was in Mr Standing’s confidence. May
I ask whether your uncle ever spoke to you on the matter?’

Egbert lolled and yawned.

‘I believe he did.’

‘You believe he did!’

‘I have some slight recollection—I—er—I’m not a business man.
I—er—don’t take much interest in business.’

‘Can you tell me what your uncle said?’

Egbert ran his hands through his hair.

‘I—er—really I have a very poor memory.’

‘Mr Standing, this is a very important matter. Do you assert that your
uncle spoke to you in such a sense as to lead you to suppose that your
cousin was illegitimate?’

‘Something of that sort.’ Egbert’s voice was languid in the extreme.

‘What did he say?’

‘I—er—really can’t remember. I don’t take much interest in family
matters.’

‘You must have some recollection.’

‘My uncle was, I believe, excited—I seem to remember that. He was, in
fact, annoyed—with me—yes, I think it was with me. And I have some
recollection of his saying—’ Egbert paused and regarded his right
thumb-nail critically.

‘Yes? What did he say?’

‘I really don’t remember exactly. It was something about his will.’

‘Yes? That is important.’

‘I don’t remember really what he said. But he seemed annoyed. And it was
something about making his will, because he’d be hanged if he’d let the
property come to me. But he didn’t make a will after all, did he?’

‘We haven’t been able to find one. Was that all he said, Mr Standing?’

‘Oh no there was a lot more—about my cousin, you know.’

‘What did he say about your cousin?’

Egbert yawned.

‘I didn’t take any interest in her, I’m afraid.’

Mr Hale strove for patience.

‘What did your uncle say about his daughter’s position?’

‘I don’t remember,’ said Egbert vaguely. ‘Something about it’s being
irregular—something like he said before, when he wrote to me.’

Mr Hale sat bolt upright.

‘Your uncle _wrote_ to you about his daughter’s position?’

Egbert shook his head.

‘He wrote to me about the club I was putting up for—said he’d blackball
me.’

Mr Hale tapped on the table.

‘You said he wrote to you about his daughter.’

‘No, he wrote to me about blackballing me for the club. He just
mentioned his daughter.’

‘In a letter of that sort? _Mr Standing!_’

‘Come to think of it, it wasn’t that letter at all. I told you my memory
was awfully bad.’

‘Oh, it was another letter? And what did he say?’

‘I really can’t remember,’ said Egbert in an exhausted voice.

‘Have you got that letter—did you keep it?’

Egbert brightened a little.

‘I might have it, but I don’t know—I’m so awfully careless about
letters. I just leave them about, you know, and sometimes my man throws
them away, and sometimes he doesn’t. I could ask him.’

‘He’d be hardly likely to remember, but perhaps you will have a search
made.’

‘He reads all the letters,’ said Egbert thoughtfully. ‘He _might_
remember.’

Years of self-control do not go for nothing. Mr Hale merely pressed his
lips together for a moment before saying:

‘Will you kindly ask him to make a thorough search? This letter may be a
very important piece of evidence. Indeed, if it contains Mr Standing’s
own admission that his daughter’s birth was irregular, the whole
question would be settled.’ He paused, and added, ‘In your favour.’

‘I suppose it would,’ said Egbert vaguely.

Mr Hale shuffled some papers.

‘It is, perhaps, a little premature to raise the point, but if you
succeed as heir-at-law, you will, I presume, be prepared to consider the
question of some allowance to your cousin. I mention this now, because
if we had your assurance on this point, we should be prepared to make
her a small advance. She appears to be entirely without money.’

‘Does she?’

‘Entirely. She in fact asked me for some money to go on with only this
afternoon.’

‘Did she?’

‘I am telling you that she did, and I should be glad to have your views
on the subject of an allowance.’

Egbert yawned.

‘I don’t go in for having views. Art is what interests me—my little
collections—a bit of china—a miniature a print—_Art_.’

‘Mr Standing, I must really ask you whether you are prepared to
guarantee a small allowance to your cousin.’

‘Why should I?’

Mr Hale explained.

‘If you succeed to the late Mr Standing’s fortune, you will be a very
wealthy man.’

Egbert shook his head again.

‘Not after everybody’s had their pickings,’ he said.

Mr Hale understood him to refer to the death duties.

‘There will be a good deal left,’ he said drily. ‘An allowance to your
cousin—’

For the third time Egbert shook his head.

‘Nothing doing. If there’s a will, or if it turns out that my uncle
really married her mother, would she make me an allowance? _Not much._’

‘The positions are hardly analogous.’

‘There’s nothing doing,’ said Egbert—‘not in the way of an allowance.
Someone—’ he ran his hand through his hair—‘someone suggested we might
get married. What do you think of that?’

‘It is rather a question of what Miss Standing would think of it.’

‘Why? It would put her all right, wouldn’t it? I thought it was rather a
bright suggestion myself—puts us both right, don’t you see? If there’s
a will or a certificate it makes it all right for me. And if there isn’t
a will or a certificate, it makes it all right for her. I thought it was
quite a bright suggestion.’

‘It would certainly be a provision for Miss Standing.’

‘Or for me,’ said Egbert.




                              Chapter VII


That evening Mr Archie Millar fulfilled his deferred dinner engagement.
He and Charles had a small table in a corner of the huge dining-room of
The Luxe. Archie was in very good form—full of virtue, full of
bonhomie, full of real affection for Charles.

‘I am The Virtuous Nephew out of _Tracts for Tiny Tots_. This is the
seventeenth time this year that I have been summoned to my Aunt
Elizabeth’s death-bed. She’s no end bucked because I always come. She
isn’t goin’ to die for the next hundred years or so, but it keeps the
old dear no end amused to go on sendin’ for me, and alterin’ her will,
and givin’ good advice all round. She always tells me about all my
little faults and failin’s, and I say “Righto” and she’s no end bucked.
Her doctor says it’s a splendid tonic. But I wish she didn’t always send
for me when I’m dinin’ with a pal.’

Charles was debating the question of just how much he was going to tell
Archie. Margaret—hang Margaret! She did nothing but get in the way. He
frowned and broke in on Archie’s flow of conversation with an abrupt
question:

‘Tell me about the Pelhams. Are they still at 16 George Street?’

Archie laid down his fish-fork.

‘Haven’t you heard?’

‘Not a word since I left.’

‘Mrs Pelham died six months ago.’

Charles felt shocked. Margaret adored her mother. If he had sometimes
thought she adored her too much, he admitted the temptation. Esther
Pelham, beautiful, emotional, with a charm as potent as it was difficult
to define, and never lacked adorers. Charles himself had bent the knee.
Unfair, therefore, to complain if Margaret did so too. He was shocked,
and showed it.

‘Poor old Freddy was awfully cut up. Bit of a bore Freddy Pelham, but
everyone’s awfully sorry for him now—no end of a facer for him after
takin’ her abroad and all—rotten for him comin’ home alone, poor chap.’

‘Did she die abroad?’

Archie nodded.

‘Freddy took her off for a long voyage. No one thought she was really
ill. Beastly for poor little Freddy comin’ home alone.’

Charles told himself just what he thought of an idiotic reluctance to
speak Margaret’s name. He spoke it now:

‘Wasn’t Margaret with them?’

‘No—it was an awful shock for her.’

Charles prodded himself again.

‘She’s married, I suppose?’

‘Margaret! Who told you that yarn?’

‘No one. I just thought she’d be married.’

‘Well, she isn’t—or she wasn’t last time I saw her, and that was about
ten days ago. She isn’t livin’ with Freddy, you know.’

‘Why isn’t she?’

‘Nobody knows. Girls are so dashed independent nowadays. She went off on
her own when Freddy took her mother abroad—and she’s stayed on her own
ever since—works for her livin’, and doesn’t look as if it agreed with
her. I think it’s a pity myself.’ He looked at Charles apologetically.
‘I always _liked_ Margaret, you know.’

Charles laughed.

‘So did I. What’s she doing?’

‘Job in a shop—low screw, long hours. Rotten show I should call it.
Fancy workin’ when you don’t have to. Girls don’t know when they’re well
off.’

‘Where’s she living?’

‘She told me,’ said Archie, ‘but I’m hanged if I remember. Sort of
minute flat affair. She had a little money from her own father, didn’t
she?’

‘Yes—nothing to speak of.’

‘You’re such a beastly plutocrat!’

‘She couldn’t live on it.’

‘She is livin’ on it, plus a pound a week.’

Charles exclaimed:

‘A pound a week!’

‘That’s her screw.’

‘Impossible!’

‘I told you you were a beastly plutocrat. Pound a week’s her market
value. She told me so herself.’

‘It’s sweating! What’s her job?’

‘Tryin’ on hats for ugly old women who can’t face ’emselves in the
glass. Margaret puts on the hat, the old woman thinks she looks a bit of
a daisy in it, pays five or ten guineas, and goes away as pleased as
Punch. Give you my word that’s how it’s done. Amazin’—isn’t it?’

Charles frowned.

‘What’s the shop?’

‘Place called Sauterelle in Sloane Street—frightfully smart and
exclusive.’

Charles detached himself with a jerk from a vision of Margaret trying on
hats for other people.

‘The Hula-Bula Indians say that a vain woman is like an empty
egg-shell,’ he observed.

‘Women are all vain,’ said Archie. ‘I only once met one that wasn’t, and
I give you my word she was a grim proposition. You should see my Aunt
Elizabeth’s night-caps. By the way she’s just made a will leavin’ every
farthin’ to a home for decayed parrots. She says the lot of parrots who
outlive their devoted mistresses is enough to make a walrus weep. She
says she feels a call to provide for their indigent old age. I shall
have to marry an heiress—I see it loomin’. I think I’d better make the
runnin’ with the Standing girl before there are too many starters.’

‘Who’s the Standing girl?’

Archie very nearly dropped his knife and fork.

‘My dear old bean, don’t you read the evenin’ papers? Old man Standing
was a multi-millionaire who got washed overboard in one of the late
weather spasms in the Mediterranean. Beastly place the
Mediterranean—nasty cold wind, nasty choppy sea—draughty sort of
place. Well, he got washed overboard; and they can’t find any will, and
he’s got an only daughter, who scoops the lot. I’m just hesitatin’ on
the brink as it were, because they haven’t published her photograph, and
that probably means she’s a bit of a nightmare—I mean, think of the
photographs they do publish. And my Aunt Elizabeth might alter her will
again any old day if her parrot bit her, or came out with some of the
swear words she thinks she’s broken him of. She told me with tears in
her eyes what a reformed bird he was. But you can’t ever tell with
parrots.’

Charles had not been attending. He had decided that he would tell Archie
just what had happened the other night; only he would leave Margaret out
of it. He interrupted an ingenious plan for priming the parrot with
something really hair-raising in the way of an expletive.

‘The other night, Archie, when you didn’t come, I walked down to have a
look at the old house.’

‘Did you? Did you go in?’

‘Anyone might have walked in,’ said Charles drily. ‘The door into the
alley-way was open, and the garden door was open too. I walked in, and I
walked upstairs, and I found a cheery sort of criminal conspiracy
carrying on like a house on fire in my mother’s sitting-room.’

‘I say, is this a joke?’

‘No, it isn’t. I saw a light under the door, and I heard voices. You
remember the cupboard where we used to play, across the room of the
passage between the bedroom and sitting-room?’

‘Yes, of course.’

‘I got in there and looked through the hole we used to keep corked up,
and there was a gentleman in a grey rubber mask and gloves giving orders
to a very pretty lot of scoundrels.’

‘Charles, you _are_ jokin’.’

‘I’m not—it happened.’

‘What were they doin’—’

‘Well, I rather gathered they’d destroyed a will, and it wouldn’t very
much surprise me to hear that they’d made away with the man who’d made
it. They seemed to be thinking about murdering his daughter if another
will turned up, or some certificate—I didn’t quite understand about
that.’

‘Charles, you don’t mean to say you’re serious?’

‘Absolutely.’

‘You weren’t drunk, and you weren’t dreamin’?’

‘I was not.’

Archie heaved a sigh.

‘Why on earth wasn’t I there? What did you do?—bound from your place of
concealment hissin’ “All is discovered”, or what?’

‘I went on listening,’ said Charles. He proceeded to give Archie a very
accurate account of the things he had listened to and the things he had
seen. He left Margaret Langton out of the story, and in consequence
found himself making rather a poor figure at the finish.

‘You _didn’t_ bound from your place of concealment!’ Archie’s tone was
incredulous.

‘No, I didn’t.’

‘You let them get away and just trickled round to the police station?’

‘Well—no,’ said Charles, ‘I didn’t go to the police station.’

‘Why didn’t you?’

‘Because I didn’t want to.’ He paused. ‘As a matter of fact I used to
know one of the crowd pretty well, and I thought I’d keep the police out
of it if I could.’

Archie considered this.

‘I say, that’s bad! I mean destroyin’ wills and plannin’ to murder
people isn’t the sort of game you expect to find your pals mixed up
in—is it? Did you know the fellow well?’

‘Fairly well,’ said Charles.

‘Well, d’you know him well enough to put it to him that it isn’t exactly
the sort of show to be mixed up in?’

‘That’s what I was thinking of doing.’

‘I see. Then there’s the girl. They won’t be getting up to any murderin’
games for the moment, I take it.’

‘No,’ said Charles, ‘that was only if this certificate turned up.’

‘And you don’t know what it is? And for all you know it may be turnin’
up any day of the week. Pity you don’t know her name—isn’t it?’

‘Her Christian name is Margot. I heard that.’

Archie upset his coffee.

‘Charles, you’ve been pullin’ my leg.’

‘I haven’t.’

‘Honest Injun?’

‘Honest Injun.’

‘Not about the name? You swear you’re not pullin’ my leg about that?’

‘No, I’m not. Why should you think I am?’

Archie leaned across the table and dropped his voice.

‘You swear the girl was called Margot? You’re sure?’

‘Positive. Why?’

‘Because that’s the name of the girl I was talkin’ about—the Standing
girl—old Standing’s daughter.’

‘Margot?’

‘Margot Standing,’ said Archie in a solemn whisper.




                              Chapter VIII


Mr Hale was considerably annoyed next morning by the arrival of Mr
Egbert Standing and a large leather suitcase full of unsorted papers.
One of Mr Hale’s clerks brought in the suitcase and placed it on the
floor, whereupon Egbert with a wave of the hand commanded him to open
it.

‘It isn’t locked—I never lock things—you just slide back those
what-d’you-call-its.’

The clerk slid back the what-d’you-call-its and lifted the top. A mask
of crumpled paper met the eye.

‘There!’ said Egbert. ‘My man tells me that’s the lot.’

Mr Hale looked at the suitcase, and Mr Hale’s clerk looked at Mr Hale. A
large envelope marked Income Tax lay across a pale blue note. Mr Hale
sniffed. A surprisingly vigorous scent of patchouli arose from the
suitcase. He suspected the pale blue note—income tax officials do not
use patchouli.

‘Go on—sort them,’ said Egbert in a tone of languid encouragement.

‘I should have thought you would prefer to sort them yourself.’

Egbert shook his head.

‘I couldn’t be bothered.’

‘Your private correspondence—’ began Mr Hale. He eyed the pale blue
note.

Egbert yawned.

‘I can’t be bothered. Let him get on with it.’

After receiving a nod from Mr Hale, the clerk proceeded to get on with
it. The contents of the suitcase appeared to consist chiefly of unpaid
bills. There was a sprinkling of other scented notes—pink, mauve, and
brown. There were two sock-suspenders, an artificial flower in a
condition of extreme old age, a green satin slipper with a gold heel,
and several photographs of damsels in brief skirts and a great many
pearls.

‘Put the letters on one side, Cassels,’ said Mr Hale. ‘We’re looking for
a letter in the late Mr Standing’s hand. I don’t know if you remember
it.’

‘I think I do, sir. Isn’t this his writing?’

Mr Hale took it, looked at Egbert, and inquired,

‘Do you wish me to read this? It seems to be part of a letter from your
uncle.’

‘Read away—out loud if you like—I’m sure I don’t mind.’

Mr Hale turned the sheet in his hand, frowning.

‘There is nothing about Miss Standing here. I think I will not—er—read
it aloud.’

‘Is it the one about blackballing me for that club I told you about?’

‘No,’ said Mr Hale.

Egbert looked slightly puzzled.

‘What is it then?’

‘Mr Standing appears to have been refusing a request for a loan.’

‘Oh, _that_ one. He’s got a nasty way of putting it—hasn’t he?’

Mr Cassels unfolded a piece of paper which had been crumpled into a
ball. Still on his knees, he turned and laid it on the edge of the
writing-table.

‘Am I to read this, Mr Standing?’

‘You can read them all—it doesn’t worry me. I can’t be bothered
myself.’

The letter was very badly creased indeed. Mr Hale uttered an exclamation
as his eye lighted upon the address and the date. The paper was stamped
with the name of a hotel in Majorca, and the date was only a fortnight
old. He read the address aloud and repeated the date; then glancing down
the sheet, he spoke to the young clerk still rummaging among bills.

‘That will do, Cassels. This is the letter we were looking for.’

Mr Hale turned sharply upon Egbert.

‘This letter was written the day before your uncle was drowned. It is,
as far as we know, the last letter he ever wrote. It is impossible to
over-rate its importance. How could you fail to realize this?’

‘I don’t take any interest in business,’ said Egbert. ‘I told you I
didn’t. I told you my line was Art.’

Mr Hale rapped the table.

‘You cannot possibly fail to realize the importance of this letter.’

Egbert yawned.

‘I don’t know that I read it very carefully. My uncle’s letters don’t
interest me, you know.’

‘Mr Standing, I will ask you to listen attentively whilst I read you
this letter.’

Egbert sprawled in the big armchair with half-shut eyes. It is possible
that he listened attentively; but he had all the appearance of being
half asleep.

Mr Hale’s voice was sharp as he read from the crumpled page:

    My dear Egbert,

    I will neither lend you any money, nor will I give you any
    money. Your letter serves to remind me, not for the first time,
    that I had better make my will and have done with the chances to
    which Margot’s irregular birth exposes the fortune which I have
    laboured to build up. Even if she were legitimate, I would not
    expose her to the risks involved in the possession of so much
    money. I shall make a will as soon as I return to England, and I
    advise you not to expect too much from me. What you want is a
    good hard bout of honest work.

                                                        E. Standing

‘It’s a rude letter—isn’t it?’ said Egbert sleepily. ‘I remember I
nearly tore it up.’

‘You would have been tearing up about three million pounds if you had,’
said Mr Hale in his most impressive voice.




                               Chapter IX


Charles Moray walked twenty yards up Sloane Street, and then walked
twenty yards down again. He continued to do this. Across the street was
a lighted window with one hat on a stand and a piece of gold brocade
lying carelessly at the foot of a bright green bowl full of golden
fir-cones. Charles was aware that these things were there, because he
had stood in front of the window and peered in; all that he could
actually see from across the road was a blue of light in the fog. He
hoped he would be able to see Margaret when she came out.

He went up close to a street lamp and looked at his watch. It was past
six o’clock and the fog was getting thicker every minute. He crossed the
street and again began to walk up and down.

It was a quarter past six before Margaret came out. He was only a couple
of yards away, and even so, he nearly missed her. There was a shadow
that slipped past him in the fog and was gone.

Charles ran after the shadow. He could not have said how he knew that it
was Margaret who had passed him; he did not stop to think about that at
all. He ran after her, came in sight of the shadow, and kept pace with
it, a little behind.

He was in a strange mood. There came first the quick certainty that this
was Margaret. And then, like a flood, this sense of her and of her
nearness swept over him. She walked before him; but if she had been in
his arms, as she once had been, he could not have felt her more near. If
he looked, he would see her very thoughts. He told himself that all he
had ever seen was a mirage—the real Margaret had never shared a single
thought with him.

He had been quite sure that it was going to be immensely interesting to
meet her again; it had not entered his head that he would be angry. Yet
he had not walked half a dozen yards behind her before he was as angry
as he had ever been in his life. He was angry in a new way—angry with
Margaret for earning her living, angrier because she had mixed herself
up in who knew what ridiculous and criminal conspiracy, and angriest of
all because she had made him angry. Mixed with his anger—curiosity.
What was at the bottom of it? What did it all mean? The explorer in him
was most keenly on the alert. He meant to get to the bottom of the
business.

Perhaps his step quickened a little; he was nearer her than he had meant
to be when they passed under a street lamp. The light hung above it like
a faint white cloud.

He said, ‘How d’you do, Margaret?’ and said it lightly and pleasantly.
To Margaret Langton the voice came out of the fog and out of the past.
There was a step that kept pace with her own. And then Charles Moray
said her name—_Charles_. She turned, a ghost in a nimbus. The quick
movement was Margaret, the rest a blur.

‘_Charles!_’

Her voice was unbelievably familiar; it might have been some voice of
his own speaking to him. It shook him, and a hotter anger than before
leapt in him.

‘_Charles!_ How dare you frighten me like that!’

‘Did I frighten you?’ He spoke smoothly and easily.

Margaret caught her breath.

‘I thought someone was following me. It’s horrible to be followed in a
fog.’

‘I was waiting for you, and I nearly missed you. That ass Archie had
forgotten your address, so I had to try and catch you here.’

They walked on; the lamp receded. Margaret said,

‘Why did you want to—catch me?’

He shrugged his shoulders.

‘I’ve been away. Perhaps you haven’t noticed. One comes back, one sees
one’s friends—’

‘_Friends_—are we friends? I shouldn’t have thought you would ever want
to see me again.’

This was the old Margaret, fiercely untactful. Charles leapt at the
opening. He wanted to hit hard, to hurt her as much as possible. He kept
his indifferent tone very successfully.

‘Why on earth shouldn’t I want to see you? After all, we were friends
for about ten years before we ever thought of getting engaged. Wasn’t it
ten years? We were friends for ten years, and then we were engaged for
six months, and then—we stopped being engaged. Well, the engagement
being only an episode, it can be just wiped out. You see?’

No woman likes to be told that she was only an episode. Charles was
pleasantly aware of this; aware too that he had succeeded in piercing
some armour of defence.

She said, with a hot resentment, in her voice.

‘How can we be friends? How can you possibly want to be friends with
me?’

Charles laughed.

‘My dear girl, why not? Do let us be modern. These things don’t last,
you know. Do you expect me to be tragic after four years? I was
naturally a bit peeved at the time. But one doesn’t go on being peeved.’
He paused, then struck again and struck hard. ‘I’ve been looking forward
immensely to seeing you—but of course I thought you would be married.’

‘_Married! I!_’

‘Well,’ said Charles, ‘I didn’t suppose you turned me down just for the
fun of the thing. Naturally there was someone else.’

Margaret turned on him, her head up.

‘Did you say that just to hurt? Or did you believe it?’

Charles laughed again.

‘A bit of both. I believed it all right.’

She made a sound—not a sigh or a sob, but a quick angry breath.

‘Look here,’ said Charles, ‘I’ll put nearly all my cards on the table if
you like. I propose that we should wash out the _episode_ and revert to
the _status quo ante_. If you won’t do this, I shall naturally conclude
that you mind meeting me, that you find it embarrassing or painful.’

Margaret was certainly very angry.

‘My dear Charles, doesn’t it occur to you that I might simply be bored?’

‘No, it doesn’t. We could fight like fiends, and we could hate each
other like poison; but we could never be bored. When can I come and see
you?’

‘You can’t come and see me.’

‘Too embarrassing? Too painful?’

There was no answer. He thought he heard her catch her breath again. He
continued in a pleasant social manner:

‘I was proposing, you know, to revert to the days before the _episode_.
You were ten, weren’t you, when your people came to George Street? I
seem to remember that you didn’t mince your words in those days. Why
bother to mince them now? Why not revert—say anything you like?’

Margaret said nothing; she walked without turning her head. Charles
walked beside her. He was sorry there was a fog; he would have liked to
see her face. He gave her a moment; then he spoke again.

‘No words bad enough?’

There were no words at all.

‘When can I come and see you?’

Silence—the fog—a black slippery crossing—Basil Street. They crossed,
and passed through another patch of hazy light.

‘You used not to sulk,’ said Charles meditatively.

She flung round on him then like an angry schoolgirl.

‘How _dare_ you?’

Charles was immensely pleased.

‘_Touche!_’ he said to himself; and then aloud, ‘I’m sorry—I haven’t
any manners. I’ve been deprived of the refining influence of woman for
four years, you see. When can I come and see you?’

They had reached the Knightsbridge pavement, and he stopped
instinctively on its dark brink. It was very dark, the lights of the
crawling cars only just discernible, the noise of the traffic a
bewildering dull sound that seemed to come from everywhere at once.

Charles stopped, but Margaret Langton never hesitated; she walked
straight on, and even as he looked round for her she was lost in the
shuffling, whispering, hooting gloom. Charles plunged after her. Someone
swore, a hoarse voice shouted. ‘Where are you gettin’ to?’ The hooter of
a car went off right in his ear, and his shoulder collided violently
with somebody’s driving-mirror. The next half-minute continued to be
like that, only more so.

He fetched up on the island in the middle of the road with feelings of
relief. The island was crowded. Under the powerful light it was possible
to see one’s next door neighbour. Charles annoyed all the rest of the
people on the island by being neighbour to each of them in turn. He trod
on several toes, was prodded in the ribs by a very powerful umbrella,
and a number of people asked him what he thought he was doing. As it was
impossible to explain that he was looking for Margaret, he had to say he
was sorry a good many times.

Margaret was not on the island. He came to a standstill behind a broad
blue serge back. A heavily built man stood just in front of him. He wore
a rough blue coat of the peak-jacket style and had about his neck a
large khaki muffler—the sort of thing that one’s aunts knitted stacks
of during the war. The thought passed through Charles’s mind and then
pricked him so sharply that he very nearly cried out. He had made the
same comparison before, within the last few days; and he had made it
about the same muffler. He had stared at that blue serge back and that
khaki comforter before. He had stared through the knot-hole of his
mother’s cupboard and seen that lump shoulder and that bullet head come
into view as Number Forty, the deaf janitor, opened the door to Grey
Mask’s visitors.

He pushed against the man, hoping to see his face; and as he did so, he
said mechanically,

‘I beg your pardon.’

In a moment his interest was dashed. The man turned half round and said,

‘Granted.’

Charles saw a square fresh-coloured face, clean-shaven, and then the man
turned again and stepped off the island into the road. Charles stepped
off too.

Forty was stone deaf. This man was not stone deaf. He must have heard
Charles say ‘I beg your pardon’, because he immediately turned round and
said ‘Granted’. He might have turned because Charles pushed him; but you
don’t say ‘Granted’ when someone barges into you from behind. No, he
must have heard. Then he wasn’t Forty, because Forty was deaf. Grey Mask
said that Forty was deaf.

Charles considered what he knew of Forty. He was Grey Mask’s janitor—in
other words a villain who was trusted by other villains. And Grey Mask
said he was deaf. To Charles he was merely a bullet head, a blue serge
coat, a pair of broad shoulders, and a khaki muffler.

Charles inclined strongly to the evidence of his own eyes. He followed
the muffler. He followed it to the corner and along twenty yards or so
of pavement. Then he followed it into a Hammersmith bus.




                               Chapter X


The bus went creaking and clanking on its way. It was quite full, and it
smelt very strongly of fog, petrol and wet umbrellas. Charles sat
opposite the man with the muffler and looked at him curiously. He had a
square, fresh face and very blue eyes; he had the look of a man who has
followed the sea. Forty had been with Mr Standing on his yacht. But
Forty was deaf, and this man wasn’t deaf.

Just on the impulse Charles leaned across and addressed him.

‘Bad fog—isn’t it? I’m glad I’m not at sea.’

The man looked at Charles after a pleasant puzzled fashion and shook his
head.

‘Sorry, sir, but I’m deaf.’

Charles raised his voice:

‘I only said it was a bad fog.’

He shook his head again and smiled deprecatingly.

‘It’s no good, sir. Hill 60 going up was the last thing I heard.’

The other people in the bus looked round with interest. A fat woman in a
brown velvet dress and stout laced boots said, ‘What a shime!’

Charles sat back and closed his eyes. Grey Mask had said Forty was
deaf—and that this was Forty, Charles had now no more doubt than that
he himself was Charles Moray; yet Forty, apologized to by a casual
stranger in a fog—no, let’s get it clearer, Forty taken unawares—had
answered a casual stranger’s apology. But Forty in a crowded, lighted
bus not only maintained that he was stone deaf but produced a
picturesque reminiscence to account for it. What did it mean?

Charles thought that he would find out what it meant; and when presently
the man in the muffler got out of the bus, Charles got out too.

‘The one point about this perfectly beastly weather,’ he explained to
Archie over dinner, ‘is that you can follow a fellow without his
spotting you. I followed him very successfully and tracked him to his
lair. He appears to be lodging at No. 5 Gladys Villas, Chiswick. The
house belongs to an old lady and her daughter who’ve been there for
about forty years—I found that out at the grocer’s. But there I’m
stuck. The old lady’s name is Brown, and she’s the widow of a sea
captain. I could have found out lots more of that sort of thing. But how
am I going to find out the things I want to know about Forty?’

‘Get a trained sleuth to do it,’ said Archie firmly. ‘That’s what
they’re for. I can put you on to one if you like.’

‘A good man?’

‘A sleuthess,’ said Archie impressively. ‘A perfect wonder—has old
Sherlock boiled.’

Charles frowned.

‘A _woman_?’

‘Well, a sleuthess. She’s not exactly what you’d call a little bit of
fluff, you know.’

‘What’s her name?’

‘Maud Silver.’

‘Mrs or Miss?’

‘My dear old bean!’

‘Well—which is she?’

‘Single as a Michaelmas daisy,’ said Archie.

‘But who is she? And why drag in a sleuthess when there are lots of
perfectly good sleuths?’

‘Well,’ said Archie, ‘I put my money on Maud. I only saw her once, and
she didn’t make my heart beat any faster. I went to see her because my
cousin Emmeline Foster was in the dickens of a hole. She’d done one of
the silly sort of things women manage to do—can’t imagine how they
think of them myself. I can’t give you the lurid details; but what it
amounted to was that she’d gone and lost the family jewels, and she was
shakin’ in her shoes for fear her mother-in-law would find out. Well,
little Maudie got them back. No fuss, no scandal, no painful family
scene—a _very_ neat piece of work. That’s only one story. I know half a
dozen more, because Emmeline just rushed round with her mouth open
tellin’ all her friends what a wonder Maudie was, and all the friends
who had private scrapes of their own went and bleated to Maudie about
’em, and when Maudie had got ’em all straightened up again, they came
back and told Emmeline, and Emmeline told me.’

Charles took down Miss Maud Silver’s address. If she specialized in
getting silly women out of messes, she would just about suit his book.
He put the address away in his pocket-book, and as he looked up he
caught sight of Freddy Pelham dining at a table with Massiter, the
artist, and a large, dull, respectable couple whom Charles did not know.
Massiter had the air of a man who is bored to the verge of coma. Freddy
looked so forlorn that Charles felt a genuine pang of pity.

Later, when he and Archie were going out, he found himself almost
touching Freddy in the doorway, and in a moment Freddy was shaking him
by the hand.

‘My dear fellow! You’re back—yes, you’re back! Dear me, you’re back
again!’

‘As you see,’ said Charles.

Freddy dropped the hand he had been shaking; his little grey eyes looked
deprecatingly at the young man whom his step-daughter had jilted; his
rather high and plaintive voice became more plaintive still.

‘My dear fellow—you’re back! Pleased to see you—very pleased to see
you!’

‘I’m pleased to be back,’ said Charles cheerfully.

At another time it might have amused him to observe Freddy’s
embarrassment. He plunged straight into the cause of it.

‘By the way, can you give me Margaret’s address?’

Freddy blinked.

‘Margaret’s _address_—er—_Margaret’s_ address?’

‘Yes.’

Freddy blinked again.

‘You’ve heard that she’s deserted me,’ he said. ‘I don’t know why girls
can’t stay at home. But it seems to take them all the same way. Now
there’s Nora Canning—now let me see, was it Nora? Or is Nora the
married one, and am I thinking of Nancy? Or is it Nancy who is the
married one? And who the deuce did she marry? It wasn’t Monty Soames,
and it wasn’t Rex Fossiter. Now who _was_ it she married? I know I was
at the wedding, because I remember they gave us deuced bad
champagne—and Esther couldn’t go, but Margaret and I went—’ He broke
off, and looked down like a shy child. ‘You’ve heard about Esther?’

Charles felt horribly sorry for him.

‘Yes, I—heard. I can’t say how sorry I am. She—there was something
about her.’

Freddy wrung his hand.

‘I know, my boy, I _know_. No one like her—was there? Can’t think what
she ever saw in me. Well, well, I’m glad to see you back, Charles. She
always liked you very much. I’d be sorry to think there was any sort of
feeling now you’ve come back.’

‘Oh, there isn’t.’

‘Bygones be bygones, eh? That’s right! Stupid to keep things up—that’s
what I’ve always said—what’s the sense of keeping things up? I’ve
always said that. I remember now saying that twenty years ago to
Fennicker—no, if it was Fennicker it couldn’t have been twenty years
ago, because that Fennicker was in China until 1914, unless I’m thinking
of the other one—their mothers married cousins you know—deuced pretty
women both of them—lovely shoulders. Women don’t have shoulders now,
eh? Nothing but bones—that’s what I say—_scraggy_, my boy—and it
don’t make them look any younger—’

‘What about Margaret’s address?’ said Charles quickly. If he had to wait
whilst Freddy disentangled the Fennickers for a few generations or so,
he would do so; but there seemed to be just a chance of escape; Archie
was punching him in the ribs. ‘What about Margaret’s address?’

‘I thought she might have stayed with me,’ said Freddy. ‘But I don’t
want you to think we quarrelled—I shouldn’t like anyone to think that.’

‘Can you give me her address?’

It took Charles another ten minutes to get it, and Archie had reached
groaning point before they finally got away.

They walked the short distance to the show Archie had insisted upon. The
fog was still heavy. Charles found himself thinking curiously and
angrily about Margaret. Where was she? What was she thinking? What was
she doing? He had a furious desire to know, to break away from Archie
and to walk to the address which Freddy Pelham had given him.

At intervals during the evening that desire to know what Margaret was
doing swept over him again. If he could have looked into Margaret’s
room, he would have seen nothing, because the room was dark. It was very
dark and very cold, because there was no light and no fire.

Margaret Langton lay face downwards in front of the cold hearth; her
forehead rested upon her crossed arms. The fire had gone out a long time
ago. It was hours since she had moved at all, but the hot, slow tears
went on soaking into the black stuff of her sleeve. Her right arm was
crossed over her left arm; her forehead rested upon it. The stuff of her
sleeve was quite wet through.




                               Chapter XI


Charles sat in Miss Maud Silver’s waiting-room. He was not one of those
who wait patiently. Having arrived at ten o’clock, he was exasperated to
find that he was not the first upon the scene; a murmur of female voices
stimulated his annoyance. ‘Probably talking millinery,’ was his
embittered comment.

Then all of a sudden through the thin partition came a sharp little cry
of ‘_I can’t!_’ The cry had a quality which did not suggest millinery.
There was a silence; and then the murmur of voices went on again.

It was almost half past ten before the inner door opened and a woman
came out. She kept her head turned away and passed quickly out on to the
landing.

Charles entered Miss Silver’s office with a good deal of curiosity, and
found himself in a small, light room, very bare—furnished, to the first
glance at any rate, by a chair, a writing-table and Miss Silver herself.
The writing-table was immense, of the large old-fashioned flat kind with
drawers all round it; the top was piled high with exercise-books of
different colours very neatly stacked.

Miss Silver sat in front of a pad of pink blotting-paper. She was a
little person with no features, no complexion, and a great deal of tidy
mouse-coloured hair done in a large bun at the back of her head. She
inclined her head slightly, but did not offer to shake hands.

Charles introduced himself, mentioned Archie’s name, mentioned Emmeline
Foster’s name, and received no indication that Miss Silver had any
recollection of either of them.

‘What can I do for you, Mr Moray?’ The voice was rather a hesitating
one; a quiet voice without tone.

Charles began to feel sorry he had come.

‘Well—I wanted some information.’

Miss Silver picked up a brown copy-book, wrote Charles’s name at the
head of a page, asked for and added his address, and then inquired what
sort of information he wanted.

Charles did not mean to tell her very much—not at first anyhow. He
said,

‘I want information about a man who is lodging at 5 Gladys Villas,
Chiswick. He’s a middle-aged man with a fresh colour. I don’t know his
name. I want to know anything you can find out about him; and I most
particularly want to know whether he is really deaf.’

Miss Silver wrote in the copy-book. Then she asked,

‘Anything more?’

‘Yes,’ said Charles frowning. ‘I want to know something about Mr
Standing’s family affairs. You know the man I mean—he’s been in all the
papers.’

‘His affairs,’ said Miss Silver, ‘are largely public property. I can
tell you a good deal about them now. He was washed overboard whilst he
was yachting off Majorca, and he didn’t leave any will. His immense
fortune will therefore be inherited by his only child. Her name is
Margot. She is just eighteen, and until a week ago was at school in
Switzerland. Was that what you wanted to know?’

Charles shook his head.

‘Everyone knows that. I want news from day to day of what is happening.
I want to know who is in the house with the girl—what she does—who her
friends are. I want to be told at once if she goes away, or if there is
any sudden development in her affairs. I’m afraid it’s all rather
indefinite; but I expect you can see the sort of thing I want.’

Miss Silver had been using the right-hand page of the brown copy-book;
she now wrote something quickly on the left. Then she said;

‘I see what you want. But you haven’t told me why you want it.’

‘No.’

Miss Silver smiled suddenly. The smile had the most extraordinary effect
upon her face; it was just as if an expressionless mask had been lifted
and a friendly, pleasant face had looked out from behind it.

‘It’s no good, Mr Moray.’

Charles said, ‘I beg your pardon?’

The smile was still there.

‘I can’t take your case unless you’re going to trust me. I can’t work
for a client who only tells me snippets and odds and ends. “Trust me all
in all, or not at all” is my motto. Tennyson is out of fashion, but I
admire him very much, and that is my motto.’

Charles looked at her with the suspicion of a twinkle. What a Victorian
little person! He became aware of a half-knitted stocking on her lap,
still needles bristling. It seemed to him very appropriate. He twinkled,
and replied to her quotation with another:

‘The Taran-Tula Indians say that you may catch a snake by the tail, but
you should never trust a woman.’

Miss Silver looked sorry for the Taran-Tula Indians.

‘Poor ignorant heathens!’ she said; and then, ‘Of course, if one has
been very badly treated, it makes one cautious. But I can’t take your
case unless you are frank with me. Frankness on your part—discretion on
mine.’

She picked up the stocking and began to knit, holding the needles in the
German way. After one round she looked at Charles and smiled again.

‘Well, Mr Moray?’

Charles told her everything that he had told Archie Millar, and came
away wondering whether he had made a fool of himself.




                              Chapter XII


At a quarter to seven that same evening Charles Moray rang the bell of
Miss Langton’s tiny flat. Margaret opened the door and stood facing him
across the threshold.

‘Charles!’ Her voice betrayed no pleasure.

She had left the sitting-room door open behind her. At the first glance
the effect was one of colour—dark red curtains; bright coloured
cushions; Margaret a silhouette, in her black dress with the light
behind her. She kept her hand on the door and did not move to let him
in.

‘Well?’ said Charles. ‘Now that you’re quite sure it’s me, couldn’t we
come in?’

Margaret dropped her hand, turned and walked past the table to the
hearth. A handful of sticks just lighted crackled there. She bent and
put a lump of coal on them.

Charles came in behind her and shut the door. He was in a fever of
impatience to look at her, to see her face. And then she rose suddenly
from the fire and swung round; the light shone on her. She was
pale—clear, and pale, and fine; the only colour was in her eyes—brown
sombre colour with a dark fire behind the brown. She had changed; sorrow
had gone over her and changed her. But under the change there was still
Margaret, a Margaret who was so familiar that his heart jumped.

She spoke quickly:

‘I’m afraid I can’t ask you to stop. I’ve only just got in, and I have
to get my supper.’

‘The soul of hospitality!’ said Charles. ‘As a matter of fact I came to
propose that we should dine somewhere and dance or do a show—whichever
you like best.’

She had changed—he supposed that he himself had changed; but Margaret
ought not to have changed so much as this. The strong lines of cheek and
jaw showed too plainly. Her eyes were too large; they looked darker.
That was because she was so pale, and because of her black dress.
Something welled up through his anger.

‘Freddy told me you were here. Margaret, I want to say I’m so sorry
about—her. Archie told me. I hadn’t heard.’

Margaret moved quickly.

‘Yes—I can’t talk about it. Where did you see Freddy?’

‘He was dining with some people at The Luxe. I haven’t gone down to
Thornhill Square yet. The Luxe is—more sociable. I thought we might
dine there tonight.’

‘No,’ said Margaret.

‘Now look here! Just be a reasonable creature for once in a way. The
change will do you good. I propose that we strew a little decent dust
over the hatchet just for tonight. We needn’t really bury it, you
know—quite without prejudice, as the lawyers say. After all, one must
dine.’

Margaret looked at him out of those big dark eyes. He thought they
mocked him.

‘My dear Charles, I don’t dine—I sup. When I’m very affluent I have an
egg or a sardine. When I’m not—’

‘Revolting!’ said Charles. ‘Come and dine—real dinner.’

‘No,’ said Margaret. Her tone was a little fainter. Last night’s bitter
weeping had left her weary and cold. Now her mood began to change; there
came over her an impatience of all this dreary round into which her life
had fallen. Charles standing there brought back the old days; his voice,
his teasing, smiling eyes, his air of cheerful vigour, all brought with
them a longing for the old life, the old natural enjoyment in a hundred
things which had slipped away from her.

‘Come along,’ said Charles. He let his voice soften and his eyes look
into hers.

She stopped resisting the turn of her mood. Why shouldn’t she go back
for an hour like a ghost, eat, drink and be merry, dance through an
evening, and leave tomorrow to take care of itself?

‘Well?’ said Charles. ‘You’ve just time to dress.’

He looked over her shoulder at the clock on the mantelpiece, a pretty
trifle of bright green china with wreaths of gold and painted flowers.
He and Margaret had bought it together in an old shop in Chelsea; he had
given it to her on her nineteenth birthday, a month before they became
engaged. The hands pointed to a quarter to seven.

He said, ‘Well? You’re coming?’ and saw the colour come into her face.

She laughed unexpectedly and picked up the clock. He watched with
surprise and amusement. What was she going to do?

What she did was to open the clock and turn the hands. They went round
with a little whirr; she was turning them
backwards—once—twice—three—four—five times; and as they turned, she
became the glowing, young, live Margaret of that nineteenth birthday.

‘What are you doing?’ asked Charles smiling.

‘I’m putting back the clock five years,’ said Margaret. There was a
shade of defiance in her tone. Five years took them back to the days
before what Charles had called the ‘episode’; it took them back to the
time they were just neighbours and friends, seeing one another every
day, full of common interest, engagements, diversions, quarrels.

Charles lifted his eyebrows.

‘Five years?’

She nodded.

‘Yes, five. Is it a bargain?’

‘Go and dress,’ he said.

Charles made himself very agreeable over dinner. Incidentally he began
to learn something of Margaret’s life during the past four years. To his
surprise he found that she had been working during the whole of the
time, though she had gone on living in George Street until her mother’s
death.

‘Freddy was very anxious I shouldn’t think you had quarrelled with him.’
He laughed. ‘How would one set about quarrelling with Freddy? Has anyone
ever done it?’

‘I shouldn’t think so.’

‘You didn’t?’

‘My dear Charles!’

‘No—but did you?’

‘Would it be your business if I had?’

Charles considered.

‘You’re not playing the game. This is five years ago and I am thinking
of asking you to marry me. Yes, I think it’s my business, because you
see, if a girl has quarrelled with her stepfather and left home, one
might want to know why before one took the fatal plunge.’

Margaret put down her left hand and clenched it on the sharp edges of
the chair on which she sat. Just for a moment all the lights in the long
room seemed to swing, and the room itself was full of a grey mist. She
looked steadily into the mist until it lifted and showed her Charles
leaning towards her across the table with his charming malicious smile.

‘Are _you_ playing the game? You can’t have it both ways, you know. If
it’s now, it’s not your business; and if it’s five years ago—‘her voice
broke in a sudden laugh—‘why, if it’s five years ago, I haven’t left
home at all.’

‘Your trick!’ said Charles. But he had seen her colour go, and just for
one horrid moment he had thought that she might be going to faint.

After dinner they danced in the famous Gold Room. Margaret was a
beautiful dancer, and for a time they did not talk at all. Perhaps they
were both remembering the last time they had danced together, a week
before the wedding day which had never come.

Charles broke the silence. Memories are too dangerous sometimes.

‘All the old tunes are as dead as door-nails. I don’t know the name of
anything. Do you?’

‘The last one,’ said Margaret, ‘is called _I don’t mind being all alone
when I’m all alone with you_.’

‘And this one?’

They were close to the orchestra, and a young man with a piercing tenor
uplifted his voice and sang through his nose: ‘Oh, baby! Don’t we get
along?’

‘Ripping!’ said Charles. ‘I like the way these fellows burst into song.’

‘I’m happy! You’re happy!’ sang the young man in the band.

‘In fact,’ said Charles, ‘the libretto has been specially written for
us. I must thank the management. You wouldn’t like to come with me, I
suppose?’

Margaret laughed.

‘No, I wouldn’t. And you needn’t think you can get a rise out of me by
saying things like that, because you can’t.’

‘Sure?’

‘Quite sure.’

‘Then let’s talk about swimming the channel, or flying to Tierra del
Fuego, or something nice and safe like that.’

Margaret laughed again; and when she laughed, the dark fire sparkled in
her eyes.

‘My charwoman—I have her once a week when I feel rich enough—doesn’t
think flying at all nice—not for a lady “as calls herself a lady”. She
said to me this morning that days and nights alone with a “pirate” was
what she didn’t call respectable. She’s a priceless treasure, and if I
could afford to have her every day, it would cheer me up quite a lot.’

‘Do you need cheering? And if you do, must it be a charwoman?’

Another dance had begun. They glided into it. Margaret did not perhaps
think that Charles’s last remark called for an answer. The young man in
the band broke forth once more: ‘Can’t we be sweethearts now?’

‘This song and dance business is _very_ amusing,’ said Charles. ‘Not a
dull moment anywhere. What’s that step the fellow over there’s doing? It
looks tricky. Do you know it? You do? Then we’ll practise it together.’

He saw her home, and it was on the dark doorstep that he said,

‘The clock’s turned back again, and I want to ask you a question?’

‘It’s too late—I must go in.’

‘Yes, it’s too late; but I want to ask you all the same. You wouldn’t
give me the chance four years ago, you know. Why did you do it,
Margaret?’

He heard her take her breath; felt, rather than saw, that she stepped
back.

‘I can’t tell you.’

‘Why can’t you?’

‘I can’t. It’s all over and done with, and dead and buried.’ Her rather
deep voice sank deeper. ‘It’s all _over_.’

‘I wonder,’ said Charles.

Margaret pushed her latch-key into the lock with a fierce thrust.

‘It’s _over_,’ she said.

The door shut between them heavily.




                              Chapter XIII


Margot Standing wrote again to her friend Stephanie at the _pension_.

    Oh, Stephanie, I do wish you were here! I haven’t got anyone to
    talk to, and it’s so frightfully dull. You can’t call Mr Hale a
    person to talk to, because he does all the talking himself, and
    everything he says is simply deadly. He says I shan’t have any
    money at all unless there’s a will, or those certificates turn
    up. And he says he’s sure there isn’t a will because of what
    poor Papa said to his father. And yesterday he said he was sure
    there weren’t any certificates, because there was a letter from
    Papa to say so. And he said not to worry, because perhaps Egbert
    and I could come to some arrangement, and that that would be
    much the best thing. But I’ve made up my mind to go out and earn
    my living. I think it’s rather romantic to earn one’s living and
    to be a penniless orphan instead of a great heiress. I think
    it’s frightfully romantic to be a penniless orphan, and in books
    they always have a frightfully exciting time. But great
    heiresses get married for their money, so I think it’s much
    better not to be one. Don’t tell anyone, but I answered an
    advertisement, and I got an answer, and I’m going to someone who
    wants a nice-looking girl for a secretary. I was afraid I might
    be too young, but he wrote and said he liked them young and
    wanted to know what colour my hair was and a lot of things like
    that. So I sent him the little snap-shot Mademoiselle took last
    term, and he said he was sure I should suit him, and I’m going
    there tomorrow. I haven’t told anyone. And—this is the most
    secret part of all, and what you’re most particularly not to
    tell anyone. And _please_ tear this up, because you know you do
    leave letters about, and it’s most frightfully secret. I’m not
    calling myself Margot Standing, because I don’t want anyone to
    know where I am—Egbert, I mean, or Mr Hale, or anyone. So I’m
    calling myself Esther Brandon. Don’t you think it’s a
    frightfully good name and very romantic? I didn’t make it up—I
    _found_ it. I was really looking to see if I could find those
    certificates or anything about my mother. There is a big box
    full of old things in one of the attics. I wanted to use the
    things for dressing-up on holidays, and when I asked Papa, he
    said ‘No’ in a most _frightful_ voice, and Mrs Beauchamp said I
    oughtn’t to have asked, and she expected the things belonged to
    my mother. So I thought I’d look and see if I could find
    anything. But there were only dresses—awfully funny and long,
    with frills and huge sleeves and lots and lots of little bones.
    I _can’t_ think how they breathed. And right at the bottom there
    was an old green desk. It had M.E.B. on the lid in gold letters,
    and I thought it was going to be frightfully exciting. But it
    wasn’t, because it was empty. The only thing that was in it was
    a twisted screw of paper that had got wedged in under a little
    drawer at the side. I got it out, and it had Esther Brandon
    written on it like you sign your name. It looked like a little
    bit torn off the end of a letter. I thought it was a frightfully
    romantic name, and I expect it must have been my mother’s name
    because of E.B. on the lid of the desk. When I wanted a name to
    go and earn my living with, I thought I’d be Esther Brandon. But
    you’re not to tell anyone at all. And mind you tear this letter
    up at once, and _tear it up small_—not like the people in books
    who leave bits about, and the villain puts them together and
    finds out all the things they don’t want him to know.

When Miss Standing had finished her letter, she threw a wistful glance
at the empty chocolate box and wandered into the drawing-room. She was
not prepared to find her cousin Egbert there, and if she had been a
shade less bored, she might have retreated unobserved. As it was, even
Egbert was someone to talk to, and she was perhaps a little curious as
to what he was doing standing on one of the drawing-room chairs and
gazing fixedly at the picture furthest from the door.

He turned round when he heard her, but remained standing on the chair.

‘It’s no more a Turner than I am!’

‘What isn’t?’

‘That picture isn’t.’ He laughed rather rudely. ‘My uncle’s geese were
all swans. He didn’t know enough to pay the prices he did. Of course he
wouldn’t ask me, but I could have told him from the very beginning that
that wasn’t a Turner.’

‘It’s awfully ugly anyway,’ said Margot.

Egbert gave a snort and jumped down from the chair.

‘Ugly? Who cares whether it’s ugly or not? If it was a Turner, it would
be worth thousands of pounds. But it isn’t a Turner, and it isn’t worth
a thousand pence.’

‘Good gracious, Egbert, what does it matter? You’ll have simply piles of
money anyhow.’

‘It’s not a question of money. Besides—’

‘You _will_ have pots—won’t you? I shouldn’t think you’d know what to
do with it.’

Egbert looked annoyed.

‘Nobody ever has too much money,’ he said. ‘Besides there won’t be so
much as you seem to think, by the time the death duties are paid and one
thing and another.’

‘Good gracious!’ said Miss Standing again. ‘You’re frightfully sure
you’re going to get it. Suppose I’ve just found a will, or one of those
certificates Mr Hale keeps bothering about—what would you do then?’

Something just flickered across Egbert’s face—fear, and something
uglier than fear. Margot, without understanding why, felt her breath
come quicker; she wanted to run out of the room and bang the door.
Instead she repeated her question:

‘What would you do?’

‘Have you found anything?’ said Egbert in a different voice; and again
Margot would have liked to run away.

‘I might have found something. There was an old box that belonged to my
mother.’

He came a step nearer.

‘Was there? What was in it? What did you find?’ Margot went back a step.

‘I found some old dresses. They must have been _very_ uncomfortable to
wear.’

‘What else did you find?’

‘I found a desk. Wouldn’t you like to know what was in it?’

‘Papers?’ said Egbert.

Margot laughed. She couldn’t think why she felt frightened.

‘You’re talking nonsense!’ said Egbert pettishly. ‘I don’t believe there
were any papers.’

‘Perhaps there weren’t.’

‘You’d have shown them to Mr Hale fast enough.’

‘Perhaps I should, and perhaps I shouldn’t.’

‘Nonsense! Look here, I want to talk to you.’

‘You are talking to me.’

‘I want to talk to you about something special. You’re only chaffing
about that desk, you know. There’s no chance of a will turning up now,
and your father’s own letter makes it quite clear that it’s no use your
buoying yourself up thinking you’ve got any claim on his money. But, as
I said to Mr Hale, there’s no reason for you to worry, because I’m quite
willing to go shares.’

Margot opened her eyes very wide indeed.

‘_Shares!_’

‘Well, that’s just a way of putting it. It wouldn’t really be shares of
course, but it would come to just the same thing as far as you were
concerned. I mean if a girl’s got plenty of pretty frocks and some
pocket-money, and a good home, and a car—I don’t say it wouldn’t run to
a car—well, she doesn’t want anything more—does she?’

‘She might.’

‘She wouldn’t. Why should she?’

‘I don’t know. I don’t know what you mean.’

‘I mean if we were married,’ said Egbert.

Margot gave a little shriek:

‘If _who_ was married?’

‘We. I said if we were married.’

Margot stared at him.

‘Good gracious, Egbert! What a _frightful_ idea!’

‘It wouldn’t be frightful at all—it would be a very good provision for
you.’

Margot giggled.

‘It would be frightful!’ She giggled again. ‘Are you proposing to me?’

‘Yes, I am.’ There was very little of the ardent lover about his tone.

‘I’ve never been proposed to before. I didn’t know it would be like
this.’

‘You ought to take it seriously. It would be a very good thing for you.’

Margot retreated towards the door. Something was making her feel
frightened all the time.

‘No, it wouldn’t. I should hate it—I should hate it most frightfully.
I’d rather marry anyone—I’d rather marry Mr Hale or old Monsieur Declos
who taught us drawing and took snuff—I would really!’

‘I suppose you’re joking. You won’t have a penny if you don’t marry
me—not a single penny.’

Something came with a rush into Margot’s eyes—hot, wet, smarting.

‘I don’t want a penny, and I’d rather marry an _organ-grinder_!’ she
said.

This time she did run out of the room and bang the door.




                              Chapter XIV


Margot ran out of the drawing-room and down the stairs. Half-way she
stopped running and began to walk quite slowly. Why on earth should she
run away from Egbert? It wasn’t his house yet, though he had begun to
behave as if it were.

She stopped, looked down, and saw her letter to Stephanie sticking out
of the pocket of her white jumper. She thought she would go out and post
it; but it wanted a stamp. There were always stamps in the study—

She stamped her letter and went to the post with it. It wasn’t very nice
out; the fog was coming up again, and it was wet under foot although
there had been no rain.

Margot let herself into the house with the feeling that it was
pleasanter after all to be indoors. If she had only had some chocolates.
But they were all gone, and though Mr Hale had given her ten shillings
‘just to go on with’, she would want that for the great adventure of
going out as a secretary. She would just have to amuse herself with the
rather exciting story which she had left off to go and write to
Stephanie. The bother was, she had left the book in the corner of the
drawing-room sofa, and she had had enough of Egbert for one afternoon.

She stopped at the drawing-room door and listened. Perhaps he had gone
away; there really wasn’t anything for him to stay for. She felt sure
that he had gone away; but all the same she turned the handle very
softly and let the door swing open an inch or two before she looked in.

Egbert was standing on a chair again, but this time it was in front of
another picture. He had his back to Margot and to the sofa on which she
had left her book. She opened the door a little wider. She could see the
book lying there face downwards, half on the back of the sofa and half
on a sprawling purple cushion; and she could see Egbert looking hard at
the picture of a very fat, bulging woman with about a hundred yards of
drapery slipping off her in every direction.

Margot made up her mind to risk it. The sofa was in an angle between the
wall and the window; if she was quick and didn’t make a noise, she could
get her book without Egbert knowing anything about it. She slipped into
the room, reached the sofa, and had her hand on the book, when Egbert
suddenly jumped down.

For once in her life Margot moved quickly. Before Egbert had time to
turn round she had ducked behind the sofa, and when he went to the bell
and stood there with his finger on it, she crawled along inch by inch
until she was sitting on the floor between the sofa and the wall. No one
would find her now unless he leaned right over the back and looked down.
The whole thing was just the outcome of a schoolgirl instinct to hide.

Margot sat in her corner giggling inwardly and wondering if Egbert would
stay there long—it would be a bore if she had to miss her tea. She
wondered why he had rung the bell. It was that stupid William’s business
to answer it. Margot thought he was quite the stupidest footman they had
ever had.

Someone came through the door and shut it. Margot couldn’t see anything,
but she heard Egbert say, ‘Come here—I want to talk to you’; and then,
‘Where is she?’

‘She went out to post a letter.’

It ought to have been William who answered the bell. But this was not
William’s voice. It didn’t sound like a footman’s voice at all; it was
rather bored and curt.

Egbert said, ‘Well, I’ve asked her, and she won’t have me. I told you
she wouldn’t—I told you it wasn’t any good.’

It couldn’t be William who had answered the bell. Egbert wouldn’t tell
William that he had proposed to her and that she had said ‘No’. Margot
giggled again as she thought of what she had really said.

The man who couldn’t be William made an impatient sound.

‘Of course you made a mess of it—you’d be bound to do that.’

Who on earth could it be? None of the servants would speak to Egbert
like that. But he had rung the bell, and it was William’s business to
answer the bell.

‘I didn’t make a mess of it. I pointed out what a good thing it would be
for her.’

‘You made a mess of it. A girl of eighteen wants to be made love to—I
suppose you never thought of that.’

‘She never gave me a chance. I don’t like her, and she doesn’t like me,
and there’s an end of it.’

‘Is there? You know best what your orders are, and you know whether
he’ll be pleased at your failure to carry them out.’

‘He can’t expect me to marry the girl if she won’t have me.’ Egbert’s
tone was pettish in the extreme.

‘He expects you to marry her or _remove_ her. He’s not taking any
risks—there’s too much at stake.’

Margot felt as if she were listening to a play. It was a frightening
play; it made her feel creepy all down the back of her neck. Who was
_he_? Why did he want Egbert to marry her? Was it Mr Hale? What did they
mean by saying that Egbert would have to marry her or _remove_ her? It
had a horrid sort of sound.

Egbert said, ‘He can’t make me marry her.’

And then the man who couldn’t be William said, ‘Oh well, that was just a
concession to your family feelings. He would really prefer her out of
the way for good and all.’

Margot’s hands began to feel very cold. It was getting more frightening
every minute.

‘He can’t make me do that either,’ said Egbert Standing.

The other man laughed. The laugh didn’t make Margot feel any better.

‘I think you’ll do what you’re told when you get your orders. I’m to
report tonight, and I think we shall both do exactly what we’re told to
do. And I think—I rather think—Miss Margot is for it.’

‘Ssh!’ said Egbert quickly.

The other man laughed again.

‘What a rabbit you are! It’s a pity, because she’s quite a pretty girl.
It seems a pity to waste her, but I agree with him that she’s better out
of the way. I’ll make up the fire now I’m here. Local colour! And I
won’t stop in case Daniels takes it into his pompous head to wonder what
I’m doing.’

Margot heard a log fall on the fire, and then the scrunching rattle of
coal. After a minute the door was opened and shut again. The man who
couldn’t possibly have been William had gone away.

She had to wait another ten minutes before Egbert Standing went away
too.




                               Chapter XV


It was next day that Charles Moray walked into Miss Silver’s office by
appointment. The exercise-book with his name lay open before her. The
pages had been written on in a small neat hand.

Miss Silver sat upright and knitted. She appeared to have finished the
grey stocking he had seen last time and to have embarked on a second
one, for only about three inches of dark grey ribbing depended from the
steel needles. She nodded to Charles in an absent way and let him take a
seat and say ‘Good-morning’ before she opened her lips. Then she said,

‘It is a great pity you did not come to me before.’

‘Why, Miss Silver?’

Miss Silver heaved a gentle, depressed little sigh.

‘It is a pity. You would like to hear my report? I will begin with
Jaffray.’

‘Jaffray?’

‘The man you wished me to report upon, lodging with Mrs Brown at 5
Gladys Villas, Chiswick.’

‘Yes. What have you been able to find out?’

‘You shall hear.’ She glanced at the exercise-book, but continued to
knit. ‘He was until recently in the employment of Mr Standing the
millionaire, on whose family affairs you also wished for a report.’

‘In his employment?’

‘Yes, as valet and general factotum when he was on board his yacht.’

‘Do you mean that Jaffray remained on the yacht?’

‘Yes, that is what I mean. Mr Standing liked to have someone there who
knew his ways. He used to wire: “Coming on board such and such a time”,
and Jaffray would have everything ready for him. He could afford to pay
for his fancies. I found Mrs Brown a very pleasant, talkative person.
She seemed to have a very high opinion of Jaffray, who has lodged with
her on and off for the last nine years.’

‘Was he with Mr Standing on his last cruise?’

‘Oh yes—he has only just got back.’ Miss Silver took out a needle,
looked at it for a moment, and then began another row. ‘Mrs Brown seemed
to think it a little strange that Jaffray was not more upset at the loss
of so good an employer. She said she wondered he didn’t trouble at not
having any work. And I think she was worrying about whether he would be
able to go on paying his rent regularly. I have always found worried
people very willing to talk. The more worried they are, the more they
will tell you.’

Charles leaned forward.

‘Is Jaffray really deaf? Did Mrs Brown tell you that?’

Miss Silver pressed her lips together for a moment.

‘Mrs Brown talked a good deal about what she called Mr Jaffray’s
affliction. She said he lost his hearing in the war at the time Hill 60
was blown up. She very much deplored the disadvantage to Mr Jaffray in
his search for a new situation, and she repeated more than once that she
could not understand why he did not take it more to heart.’

‘_Is_ he deaf?’ said Charles.

‘Mrs Brown spoke as if he were.’

‘But _is_ he?’

The needles flashed and clicked. Miss Silver said, ‘I don’t think so, Mr
Moray.’

Charles gave a violent start.

‘You don’t think he’s deaf at all!’

‘No, I don’t think he’s deaf. But I’m not sure. I will report to you
again. I think I can find out. Now as to the other matter on which you
wished me to report. I am really extremely sorry that you did not come
to me before.’

‘What has happened?’ Charles spoke apprehensively.

‘Miss Standing has disappeared,’ said Miss Silver in mournful tones.

A hideous sense of responsibility weighed Charles to the ground. He had
known that the girl was threatened, and because of Margaret he had held
his tongue. He turned a hard face on Miss Silver.

‘How can she have disappeared?’

‘I will tell you what I know. She left her house in Grange Square
yesterday afternoon. She had a trunk with her, and she took a taxi to
Waterloo Station. There she took another taxi and drove to No. 125
Gregson Street. She had engaged herself to go there as secretary to a
man who calls himself Percy Smith. It was extremely ill-advised of her
to take this step. Mr Smith is not a man of good character. He has been
mixed up in one or two very nasty scandals.’

‘Go on,’ said Charles, ‘what has happened?’

Miss Silver dropped her knitting in her lap.

‘I can only tell you what happened up to a certain point. Miss Standing
had dropped her own name—she called herself Esther Brandon.’

‘_What!_’ said Charles. ‘No—go on!’

‘She called herself Esther Brandon. And she arrived at 125 Gregson
Street at seven o’clock yesterday evening. She was only in the house for
about half an hour. She left in a great hurry and without any luggage,
and no one has any idea of where she went. So far I have not been able
to trace her; but I certainly hope to do so.’

Charles stared at the floor. Esther Brandon—what on earth had Margot
Standing to do with Esther Brandon? Chance—coincidence—no, not by a
long chalk. If Mr Standing’s daughter had taken Esther Brandon’s name,
it was because the name meant something to her. Now what did it mean?

‘If you would tell me everything, it would be easier, Mr Moray,’ said
Miss Silver.

He stopped looking at the floor and looked at her.

‘Don’t I tell you everything?’

She shook her head.

‘You are like the people who let a house and keep one room locked up.
You needn’t be afraid that I shall open the door when you are not there.
But it would be easier for me to serve you if you would give me the
key.’

‘It’s not my key, Miss Silver,’ said Charles.

Miss Silver took up her knitting again.

‘I see,’ she said.




                              Chapter XVI


Margot Standing ran out into the street. Her heart was thumping so hard
that it shook her; her legs shook under her as she ran. Her world had
been so violently shaken that it seemed to be falling about her. She was
really only conscious of two things—that she was frightened, oh,
dreadfully frightened; and that it was dreadfully difficult to get her
breath. She didn’t feel as if she could go on running; but she _must_ go
on running, because if she didn’t, the man might come out of the house
and catch her. The thought terrified her so much that she went on
running even after it seemed as if she could not breathe at all.

It was quite dark and foggy, and she did not know in the least where she
was going; she only ran, and went on running until her outstretched
hands came up hard against a wall. The shock upset her balance. Her left
shoulder hit the wall. She swung half round and then fell in a heap. She
had not breath enough to cry out. She lay at the foot of the wall with a
sense of having come to the end of anything she could do. There was
nothing but fog, and darkness, and cold wet stones.

After a few minutes her breath began to come back. Presently she moved
and sat up. She wasn’t hurt, but her bare hands were scraped. She had
run out of the house in Gregson Street without any gloves on; her gloves
were on the table where the cocktails were. When she thought about the
gloves, she could smell the strong sickly smell, and she could see Mr
Percy Smith standing there and holding out a little glass full of yellow
stuff with a cherry and a grape bobbing about in it.

Sitting there on rough, wet cobblestones, Margot began to cry. She cried
with all her might for ten minutes, and then began to feel better. She
had got away. If he hadn’t gone out of the room—Margot dabbed her eyes
with her very wet handkerchief and saw herself sitting there quite
stupid and dumb with the cocktail in her hand, and Mr Percy Smith going
out of the room and saying he wouldn’t be a minute.

She scrambled up on to her knees because she didn’t want to see that
picture any more. It made her feel exactly like she had felt when Mrs
Beauchamp took her to the top of the Eiffel Tower and told her to look
over. Margot had looked for a moment; and then she wouldn’t have looked
again for anything in the world. To stand on the edge of a frightful
drop and to think how easily one might fall over it—

Margot got right up on to her feet and began to walk blindly forward
over the cobblestones. The lights of a car flashed in front of her.
Sounds of traffic came through the fog. Her foot struck against the kerb
at the edge of a pavement. She turned to the right and walked along
slowly without the least idea of where she was going.

She had been walking for half an hour before her mind really began to
work again. Someone knocked against her, and a shrill cockney voice
said, ‘Look out! Where are you going?’

Margot moved on, startled. The question repeated itself: ‘Where are you
going? Where—are—you—going?’ It was this question that woke her up:
‘Where are you going?’—‘I haven’t anywhere to go.’ ‘Where are you
going?’—‘I don’t know.’ ‘Where are you going?’—‘Oh, I haven’t got
anywhere to go to.’

She had cried so violently that no more tears came into her eyes, but
she felt as if she were crying deep inside her. It was a frightful thing
not to have anywhere to go to. She couldn’t possibly go back to Grange
Square, where Egbert and somebody else—somebody who had answered the
bell that William ought to have answered—were waiting to get their
orders about _removing_ her. Even after being so dreadfully frightened
by Mr Percy Smith she could still shake and turn cold when she
remembered that vague, suggestive word.

What was she going to do? What did you do when you were a girl and you
hadn’t got anywhere to go to, and you didn’t know anyone who would help
you, and you only had a shilling in the world. If Papa had only let her
have friends like other girls. But he had never let her know anyone
except at school. And Mrs Beauchamp was on her way to Australia. It had
been her business to see that Margot didn’t pick up acquaintances in the
holidays. Margot would have given a great many things that she did not
possess to have had just one acquaintance now.

Mr Hale—but if it were Mr Hale who was giving those orders—perhaps it
was—perhaps it was Mr Hale who was going to tell Egbert and
William—no, it _couldn’t_ be William—to _remove_ her.

She couldn’t go home. Oh, it wasn’t home any more; it was only a house
where people were planning horrible things. It was Egbert’s house; it
wasn’t hers. She hadn’t got anywhere to go to—she hadn’t got a
home—she hadn’t got anything.

These things kept coming into her mind like a lot of aimless people
struggling into a room and drifting out again; they didn’t do anything,
they just came in, and drifted about, and went away.

Margot went on walking, and the aimless thoughts kept on coming and
going. The thick moisture that filled the air with fog began to condense
and come down in rain. Soon she was very wet. The rain became heavier;
it soaked through her blue serge coat and began to drop from the brim of
her hat. The coat had a collar of grey fur. The rain collected on it and
trickled down the back of her neck.

Only that afternoon Margot had written to Stephanie that there was
something frightfully romantic about being a penniless orphan. It didn’t
feel a bit romantic now; it felt cold, and frightening, and desperately
miserable.




                              Chapter XVII


Charles Moray was still living at The Luxe, but he had fallen into the
way of paying unheralded visits at odd times to the house in Thornhill
Square. He did not always let the Latterys know that he had been and
gone. He did not always enter the house; sometimes he merely walked
along the square, up Thorney Lane, and into the garden by way of the
alley that ran behind it. In all his visits he neither saw nor heard
anything unusual.

On this particular evening he walked round the garden, heard ten o’clock
strike from the church of St Justin, and went out through the door in
the wall, locking it after him. As he stood with his back to the
alley-way and withdrew the key, someone passed behind him in the
darkness.

Charles turned and began to walk towards Thorney Lane. The lamp at the
end of the alley showed him that it was a woman who had passed behind
him whilst he was locking the door. She turned to the left and walked
quickly down Thorney Lane past the opening into Thornhill Square to the
big thoroughfare that lay beyond. Charles followed her.

The woman was Margaret Langton. If she had been up to her old home, the
alley-way and Thorney Lane would be a short cut for her. He thought he
would wait a little before catching her up.

The night was cold, but there was no fog. Heavy rain had cleared the
air, and the falling temperature seemed to promise frost before morning.

As Margaret turned into the lighted thoroughfare, he saw that she was
carrying a parcel. He came up with her with an easy, ‘Hullo, Margaret!
Where are you off to?’

‘I’ve been up to see Freddy. I’m going home.’

‘So you really haven’t quarrelled with him?’

‘No,’ said Margaret in a tired voice, ‘I haven’t quarrelled with Freddy.
Why should I?’

Charles took her parcel and tucked it under his arm. It felt like a box,
quite light, but awkward to hold.

‘Loot?’ he inquired.

‘Only an old desk of my mother’s. It’s empty. Freddy said I could have
it. He’s going abroad, you know.’

‘Freddy is!’

‘Yes—he can’t bear England without her. He wants to travel.’

‘I’m awfully sorry for him,’ said Charles.

He was awfully sorry for Margaret too, but he knew better than to say
so. She kept her passionate feeling in a shrine which no one else must
enter. He held his peace.

They walked on in silence until Margaret stopped and held out her hand.

‘I go up here. Give me my parcel, please.’

‘I thought I was seeing you home.’

‘I don’t know why you thought so.’

‘I still think so,’ said Charles cheerfully.

Margaret shook her head.

‘No. Please give me my box.’

Perhaps she expected him to contest the point. Instead, he said quite
meekly,

‘Very well, if you like carrying things that run into you, carry them.’

‘Thanks,’ said Margaret.

Her way lay along one of the darker streets. She felt an odd, rough
disappointment as she walked along it alone. She had certainly expected
that Charles would thrust his company upon her. She had told him to go;
but she had not expected him to go. He was not at all a biddable person.
If he let her go home alone, it was because he did not want to come with
her. Margaret held her head a little higher. The old desk was a most
uncomfortable thing to carry; sometimes the edge of it ran into her
side, and sometimes into her arm.

In the darkest patch of the road she bumped into someone. Her ‘Oh, I’m
so sorry!’ received no answer except a sort of half sob.

‘Did I hurt you?’

The distressing little sound was repeated. Margaret began to wonder what
was the matter. She could just see someone standing against the brick
wall that bordered the tiny front gardens of the houses on this side of
the road. The dark figure seemed to be leaning against the wall in a
helpless half-crouching attitude.

‘What is it? Are you ill?’

The figure moved. A girl’s voice said shakily, ‘I—don’t—know.’

‘What’s the matter?’

It was abominably stupid to ask the question—the girl would certainly
beg from her.

‘I haven’t anywhere to go.’

Margaret moved, and at once two despairing hands caught at her.

‘Don’t go away! Don’t leave me!’

Margaret told herself she had been a fool, but she was in for it now.
She took the girl by the arm, and felt that her sleeve was soaked.

‘Good gracious! You’re wet through!’

‘It rained.’ The voice was one of utter misery.

‘Come along as far as the lamp-post—we can’t talk in the dark.’

The lamplight showed Margaret a girl with drenched fair hair hanging in
wispy curls. The girl was very pretty indeed; even with a tear-stained
face and limp hair she was very pretty. Her dark blue coat was
beautifully cut, and drenched though it was, Margaret could both feel
and see that the stuff had been expensive. It had a grey fox collar,
draggled and discouraged-looking, but a fine skin for all that.

The girl looked at her out of blue, tear-washed eyes set round with
astonishingly black lashes.

‘Have you lost your way?’ said Margaret gravely.

‘Yes—I have—but—’

‘Where do you live?’

The girl gulped down a sob.

‘I can’t go back—I _can’t_.’

She couldn’t be more than seventeen or eighteen. Margaret’s eyes
travelled down to her feet. Expensive shoes—real Milanese stockings.
‘The little idiot has had a row with her people and run away.’ She spoke
firmly:

‘Where do you live? You must go home at once.’

‘I can’t. I haven’t got a home.’

‘Where have you come from?’

‘I can’t go back. They’ll do something dreadful to me if I go back.’

‘Do you mean they’ll be angry with you?’

The girl shook her head.

‘There isn’t anyone to be angry. I haven’t got anyone—_really_ I
haven’t. They’ll do something dreadful to me. I heard them making a
plan—I did really. I hid behind the sofa and I heard them. They said it
would be safer to _remove me_.’ She shuddered violently. ‘Oh, what do
you think they meant?’

Margaret was puzzled. This might be delusion; but the girl didn’t look
unhinged. She looked frightened, and she was certainly soaked to the
skin.

‘Haven’t you any friends you could go to for tonight?’

‘Papa wouldn’t let me have any friends, except at school.’

‘Where was your school?’

‘In Switzerland.’

‘What on earth am I to do with you?’ said Margaret. ‘What’s your name?’

‘Esther Brandon,’ said the girl.

The desk that Margaret was carrying fell on the pavement with a crash.
The name was like a blow. She looked at the girl’s brimming eyes and
quivering mouth, and saw them as if they were a long way off, a very
long way off. She had to put her hand on the standard of the lamp and
lean hard on it for a moment before she could find voice enough to
speak.

‘What did you say?’

‘Esther Brandon,’ said the girl.

Margaret felt quite numb and stupid. She bent down and picked up the
desk. It had been Esther Brandon’s desk when she was a girl, no older
than this girl. And Esther Brandon had become Esther Langton, and
afterwards Esther Pelham. Margaret straightened herself, holding the
desk as if it weighed heavily. Then she spoke suddenly and sharply:

‘Where did you get that name?’

The girl didn’t answer. She had looked frightened when Margaret caught
at the lamp-post. Now all of a sudden a vague look came over her face;
her eyes clouded. She put out her hands and said ‘Oh!’ Then she took a
wavering step forward and went down all in a heap on the pavement.

Mr Charles Moray loomed up out of the darkness.

‘Charles—thank goodness!’

‘What’s up?’ said Charles. ‘Who is she?’

‘I don’t know. Be an angel and get me a taxi.’

‘What are you going to do with her?’

‘Take her back with me.’

Charles whistled.

‘My dear girl, you can’t go about London collecting strange young
females.’

Margaret was on her knees. The girl moved a little and drew a choking
breath.

Charles bent nearer.

‘Take her to a hospital, Margaret.’

‘I can’t.’

She turned her face up to him, and it was as white as paper.

‘My dear girl—’

‘Charles—I can’t.’ Her voice fell to a whisper. ‘She says her
name—Charles, she says her name is Esther Brandon.’

Charles whistled again.




                             Chapter XVIII


Margot sat curled up in one easy chair. She had a novel in her lap. The
room was pleasantly warm, because before Margaret went out she had
lighted the fire. There were no chocolates, and no one to talk to until
Margaret got back at half-past one. If it hadn’t been Saturday, Margaret
would not have been back till nearly seven. Margot thought it was a very
good thing that it was Saturday.

She was wearing a jumper and skirt of Margaret’s, and a pair of
Margaret’s shoes and stockings. She was also wearing Margaret’s
underclothes. Her own wet things were all in a heap inside the bedroom.
It simply did not occur to her to pick them up and hang them in front of
the fire to dry. After a night of profound slumber in Margaret’s bed she
looked very little the worse for her fright and her wetting.

She wished she had some chocolates, and she wished Margaret would come
back. The book was rather a dull one. Besides she didn’t want to read;
she wanted to talk. It was frightful not to have anyone to talk to after
the sort of things that had happened yesterday.

Margaret came home at half-past one. She proceeded to get lunch. She had
brought the lunch with her—a tin of bully beef, a loaf of bread, and a
cream cheese.

‘I’m hungry,’ said Margot.

Margaret considered the beef and the cheese. They were meant to last
over the week-end. Well, with any luck the girl would be off her hands
today—she must be. She looked at Margot placidly eating beef and
decided to wait until she had finished.

Margot announced a passion for cream cheese. She ate a good deal of it,
and did not notice that Margaret ate bread and scrap; she was too busy
talking about Stephanie and the skating parties they had had last
winter—‘I didn’t come home for the Christmas holidays’; and how Mrs
Beauchamp had taken her to Paris for Easter—‘I got my coat there. Do
you like it? Of course you haven’t seen it properly yet, because it’s
all wet; but it’s rather nice, really, and Mrs Beauchamp said it suited
me.’

‘Who is Mrs Beauchamp?’ said Margaret. She looked at the loaf, and
decided that she had better not have a second piece of bread.

‘Papa got her to look after me in the holidays. Can I have some more
cheese?’

‘And where is Mrs Beauchamp?’

‘Well, I expect she’s got to Australia by now. She was going out to see
her son. Fancy! She’d never seen her grandchild—and it had the dinkiest
curly hair! Don’t you call that frightfully hard?’

When Margaret had put away what was left of the loaf, the beef and the
cheese, she planted herself squarely in front of Margot who had returned
to the easy chair.

‘Look here, we’ve got to talk. Is your name really Esther Brandon?’

Margot gazed at her ingenuously.

‘No, it isn’t.’

‘Then why did you say it was?’

‘I thought it was a romantic name, and I thought if I was a penniless
orphan and going out to earn my own living, I might just as well have a
_romantic_ name.’

‘Where did you get it from?’ Margaret’s deep voice was almost harsh. She
sat forward in her chair and kept her eyes on Margot’s face.

Margot giggled.

‘I found it on a bit of paper—a bit of a letter, you know. It was in an
old desk. I expect it was my mother’s.’

Margaret drew a breath of relief. It was just a chance—a bit of some
letter her mother had written long ago, perhaps to this girl’s mother,
perhaps to some other relative. It didn’t really matter. She spoke again
in an easier tone.

‘You were going out to earn your living? How?’

Margot told her.

‘I was going to be a secretary. I answered an advertisement. And he said
to send my photograph, so I sent a little snapshot M’amselle took. I’ve
never _really_ had my photograph taken you know—Papa wouldn’t let me
because of its getting into the papers. And the man said I’d do
splendidly, and I was going there today.’

Margaret heaved a sigh of relief.

‘Then you’ve got work to go to.’

‘No, I haven’t—not now.’

‘Why haven’t you?’

‘Oh!’ said Margot. ‘He was a _beast_. Shall I tell you about it?’

‘I think you’d better.’

‘Where shall I begin? Shall I begin with Egbert?’

‘Who is Egbert?’

‘Well, he’s my cousin, and he said he wanted to marry me. And then I hid
behind the sofa, and I heard him planning awful things about _removing_
me.’

This was what she had said last night. Margaret tried to disentangle it.

‘What made you hide behind the sofa?’

Margot giggled.

‘Egbert said it would be a frightfully good thing for me if I married
him, and I said I’d rather marry an organ-grinder, and I banged out of
the room and went and posted my letter to Stephanie. And when I came
back I wanted my book which I’d left in the drawing-room, and I just
opened the door to see if Egbert was there. And he was. He was standing
on a chair looking at one of those frightful pictures of Papa’s which
are supposed to be worth such a lot of money—you know, Lely, and
Rubens, and Turner, and all that lot—only Egbert says some of them
aren’t—not really. He says Papa got taken in over them.’

Turner—Lely—Rubens.

Margaret said, ‘Go on.’

‘Well, Egbert was standing on a chair, so I didn’t think he’d see me;
but he got down, and I had to hide. And then he rang the bell.’

‘Well?’

‘It was William’s bell. He’s new since last time I was home. He’s the
stupidest footman we’ve ever had.’

‘Well? What about it?’

Margot leaned forward. She looked frightened.

‘Egbert rang the bell, and someone came—but it couldn’t have been
William, because Egbert told him all about proposing to me, and he said
he expected I should have to be _removed_.’ She shivered and caught at
Margaret’s dress. ‘Margaret, what do you think he _meant_?’

‘I don’t know. You’re not making this up?’

Margot giggled.

‘I can’t make things up—I’m not a bit good at it. But I’m quite good at
remembering. Even M’amselle said I was good at that. I can tell you
every word they said if you like.’

Encouraged by a nod, Margot proceeded to repeat the conversation which
she had overheard.

‘What do you think they _meant_?’

‘I don’t know. Go on.’

‘Well, I just packed my box and sent the other footman for a taxi. I
thought I wouldn’t send William, and I thought I wouldn’t stay till
today in case of anybody trying to _remove_ me. It had a frightfully
horrid sort of sound—it did really—so I thought I wouldn’t stay. And I
thought Mr Percy Smith might just as well let me come a day earlier, so
I took a taxi—only I didn’t go straight to his house because I didn’t
want anyone to know.’

‘What did you do?’

Margot looked innocently pleased with herself.

‘I told the man to go to Waterloo, and when he’d gone away, I took
another taxi—to Mr Percy Smith’s. And that took every bit of the money
I had except a shilling. I’ve got the shilling still.’

‘And what happened at Mr Percy Smith’s?’ said Margaret gravely.

Margot blushed scarlet.

‘He was a beast.’

‘You’d better tell me what happened.’

‘He had a horrid face—a _frightfully_ horrid face. And he said he was
awfully pleased to see me. And he took me into a room, and he said now I
must have a cocktail. And I said I’d rather not. And then he said a lot
of other things, and I didn’t like them. Need I tell you the things he
said?’

‘No,’ said Margaret.

‘I don’t want to. I think he was a frightfully horrid sort of man.’

‘How did you get away?’ said Margaret violently.

Margot stared and giggled.

‘He went out of the room—he said he wouldn’t be a minute. And as soon
as he’d gone, I got so frightened that I opened the window. And there
was an area, so I didn’t think I could get out that way, and I was just
thinking what could I do, when the postman came up to the door. And when
I saw him, I ran out of the room, and I got to the front door, and I
opened it, and the postman was gone. And I heard someone call out behind
me, and I was frightfully afraid and I ran. Do you think it was silly of
me?’

‘I should think it was probably the only sensible thing you’d ever done
in your life,’ said Margaret.

Margot giggled again.

‘You said that just like M’amselle, only she used to say, “You are von
little fool, Margot.” ’

The name dropped out negligently, Margaret hardly needed it; the papers
had been too full lately of Mr Standing’s affairs. That he had a
collection of valuable pictures, and a nephew with the unusual name of
Egbert was public property. Margot Standing’s name and the fact that she
had just returned from Switzerland were public property too.

The bell of the flat rang sharply.




                              Chapter XIX


Margaret went to the door.

The flat consisted of two small rooms with a strip of passage between
them. Two thirds of the passage had been walled off to make a kitchen
about the size of a boot-cupboard. The front door and the doors of the
two rooms opened into the remaining third; there was just room for them
and no more.

Margaret shut the sitting-room door and opened the front door. Charles
Moray stood there.

‘Well?’ he said.

‘She’s in there.’ Margaret indicated the sitting-room with a nod.

‘Have you found our whether she’s a long-lost relation?’

‘She isn’t.’

‘Look here, I want to talk to you.’

‘We’ll go over to Agatha Carthew’s flat—she’s away for the weekend and
I’ve got the key.’

They proceeded across the landing to Miss Carthew’s flat. It appeared to
be devoted to the rigours of the simple life. There was linoleum on the
floor and distemper on the walls; there were two Windsor chairs and a
gate-leg table; and that was all.

Charles shut the door with a bang.

‘I suppose she had your bed last night, and you slept on the floor,’ he
began accusingly.

This was unexpected, and Margaret laughed.

‘Certainly not the floor.’

‘That beastly hard contraption I sampled when I was waiting for you the
other night then—and no bed-clothes.’

‘A rug,’ said Margaret firmly.

Charles made an enraged sound.

‘Who is this girl? You say she isn’t a relation. Are you sure she
isn’t?’

‘Quite sure.’

‘But her name—your mother’s name?’

‘That frightened me,’ said Margaret frankly. ‘But there’s quite a simple
explanation. She is—well, she’s a goose, and she found what must have
been a bit of a letter from my mother with her signature. She told me
she thought it was a frightfully romantic name to go out and earn her
living with.’

Charles burst out laughing.

‘What a mind! Hasn’t she got a name of her own?’

There was a moment’s silence. Margaret’s troubled voice broke in upon
it.

‘I think I’d better tell you what she’s been telling me. It’s all so
odd, and I don’t know what to think. I mean she may be making it up, or
she may be—’ She hesitated and then said, ‘Odd. I don’t know what to
think really.’

‘Better tell me the whole thing. And why not sit down instead of
wandering like something in a zoo?’

He himself was sitting on the corner of Miss Carthew’s table. Margaret
came to a standstill beside him. She leaned on the back of one of the
chairs.

‘I won’t sit—I don’t feel like it. Look here, this is what she told
me.’

She unfolded Margot’s tale in Margot’s own ingenuous words and without
comment, but she kept her eyes on Charles. Charles, for his part,
listened impassively. She made nothing of his expression.

‘Of course, she’s a first-class little fool, but I don’t think she’s
capable of inventing all this. What do you think? And does it occur to
you that she may be somebody who will be looked for?’

‘What do you mean by that, Margaret?’ said Charles.

‘Just that.’

There was a pause. Charles looked at her, dived into a pocket, and
produced a copy of the _Evening Gossip_. He unfolded it with a certain
slow deliberation and held it out. Margaret saw the large headlines and
caught the paper from his hand:

                  MISSING HEIRESS      INTERVIEW WITH
                           MR EGBERT STANDING
                             STRANGE STORY

She turned to get the light on the paper, and Charles got off the table
and read over her shoulder:

‘Has Miss Standing disappeared? When our representative asked Mr Egbert
Standing this question, he replied to it in the negative. “My cousin,”
he said, “has suffered terribly from the shock of her father’s death,
and from the uncertainty of her own position. It is by no means certain
that she will inherit Mr Standing’s fortune. My uncle left no will, and
up to the present no legal proof of his marriage has come to light. In
these circumstances my cousin decided to leave London. We are not in any
anxiety on her account. We desire no publicity.” ’

There was a good deal more of this sort of thing. There was an interview
with the butler, who said that Miss Standing left the house at half-past
six on the previous evening; she took a taxi to Waterloo and she had
with her a large brown trunk, the same she always took to school.

‘Well,’ said Charles, ‘What about it?’

‘Oh, she’s Margot Standing. I guessed that as soon as she began to talk
about her cousin Egbert and her father’s collection of pictures. I’m
sure she’s Margot Standing—it’s her story I’m not sure about. What do
you make of it? It’s pretty unbelievable—isn’t it? I don’t mean the
Percy Smith part—that’s just the sort of trap a little fool of a
schoolgirl would walk into. I don’t mean that; I mean all that part
about her cousin and the other man planning to remove her. What do you
make of that?’

Charles was making a good deal of it. He was remembering his mother’s
sitting-room, and the man who had said, ‘Margot’, and then, ‘The girl
may have to be removed. A street accident would be the safest way.’ And
he was remembering that Margaret—_Margaret_—had talked with this man,
that Margaret had been there. He wondered bitterly whether Margot
Standing had not jumped out of the frying-pan into the fire.

‘Charles! Do say something! Do you think there’s anything in it?’

‘Do you?’

‘Yes, I do.’ The words burst out. ‘There’s something. She’s a little
fool; but she’s not mad, and she’s not lying. What does it mean?’

Charles was standing very close to her. He had been looking over her
shoulder at the paper. Then as they talked, she moved to face him. Now
he touched her on the arm, a quick, insistent touch.

‘Don’t you know what it means?’

‘No—how can I?’

‘You don’t know what it means?’

His tone startled her.

‘Charles—what—why should you say that?’

‘Don’t you know?’

She drew back, paler. Something in her eyes—distress, anger—he wasn’t
sure.

‘Charles, what are you saying? What do you mean?’

Charles put a hand on her shoulder.

‘Will you tell me that you’d never heard of Margot Standing before?’

‘Of course I’ve heard of her. The papers—’

‘That isn’t what I mean. Will you tell me that you’d never heard of her
from another source?’

‘I don’t know what you mean.’ Her eyes were angry.

‘Don’t you? Then will you tell me what you were doing on the night of
the third of October?’

‘The third?’ said Margaret. ‘The third?’ Her voice changed suddenly as
she repeated the word; she was puzzled, and then she was
frightened—sharply, unexpectedly frightened.

Charles felt all the muscles of her shoulder stiffen under his hand. He
kept it there, holding her.

‘Will you tell me what you were doing in my house that night?’

Margaret looked at him. Her eyes were dark and fierce.

‘Well, Margaret?’ he said; and then, quickly, ‘Don’t lie! I saw you.’

A wave of colour rushed into her face. She wrenched her shoulder free
and flung away from him.

‘How dare you say a thing like that? When did I ever lie to you?’

‘When you said you loved me,’ said Charles, and saw the colour ebb away
and leave her fainting white.

She kept her eyes on his. They said, ‘I’ll never forgive you.’ Then she
turned from him and went to the window. With her back to him, she said
in a low, hard voice,

‘You saw me?’

‘I saw you. And I heard—_things_.’

‘What did you hear?’

‘I heard—no, I won’t tell you what I heard. It’s no good carrying coals
to Newcastle.’

She turned at that.

‘What do you mean?’

‘That you know it already. I heard enough to make me believe Margot
Standing’s story.’

‘Tell me what you heard.’

‘Tell me what you were doing there.’

‘I can’t.’

‘Tell me whom you were meeting.’

‘I can’t.’

‘Margaret, for heaven’s sake! What sort of mess is this you’ve got into?
Can’t you tell me about it? Can’t you trust me?’

‘I—_can’t_.’

His manner changed. He said lightly.

‘Then I’m afraid I can’t tell you what I heard.’

There was a silence. Margaret stood looking at him. Her expression
changed rapidly. He thought she was going to speak; but instead she
pressed her hand over her eyes. The gesture shut him out, and shut her
in. He wondered what company she had in the darkness which she was
making for herself.

She dropped her hands at last. Her face was composed, too much
controlled to tell him anything. When she spoke, her voice was quiet and
a little tired. She said,

‘Charles, what are we to do with her?’

The ‘we’ was unexpected; it startled him.

‘She doesn’t want to go back—she’s afraid to go back.’

‘I think she has reason to be afraid,’ said Charles.

‘You do think so?’

‘Don’t you?’

Margaret grew very much paler.

‘Charles—’ she said. Then she stopped.

Charles looked at her. His look did not help her. It was hard and
steady.

‘Charles—’ she said again.

‘What are you trying to say?’

‘Charles, you asked me—what I know—I don’t—know—anything—’

‘You mean you don’t know anything that you can tell me?’

‘No, I don’t mean that. There’s something—I can’t tell you. But it’s
not about Margot. I don’t know anything about Margot.’ She paused; and
all at once fire and colour came back. ‘Do you think I’d hurt her?’

Charles did not think anything of the sort. No evidence, not even his
own, could make him think Margaret capable of hurting any girl. Every
instinct, every memory rose up in her defence. He said soberly,

‘No, I don’t think you’d hurt her. There might—be others.’

That struck her. She winced away from it.

‘She can’t go back,’ said Charles. ‘Can she stay here—_safely_?’

‘Why do you say that?’

‘You know. Is she safe here? Is she safe with you?’

Margaret lifted her head. The proud, familiar gesture plucked at his
heart.

‘Yes, she’s safe.’

‘Will you swear to that?’

‘Will you ask me to?’

Something passed between them—a wordless, passionate question; a
passionate, wordless answer. Charles felt a rush of emotion that
startled him. He said quickly, ‘No’; and the moment passed.

Margaret smiled. She seemed to relax, to be more the old Margaret than
he had seen her yet.

‘Do you want me to keep her?’

‘Could you—for a day or two?’

‘I suppose I could.’

Neither of them seemed to think it strange that Charles should be in
charge. If Margot Standing had been a stray kitten, the affair might
have passed very much as it was passing now. He led the way out of Miss
Carthew’s flat and into Margaret’s. She threw open the sitting-room door
and went in.

Miss Standing looked up very much as the kitten might have done; there
was the same grace of pose, the same effect of soft roundness, the same
wide-eyed innocence.

‘This is Charles Moray who helped me to bring you home last night,’ said
Margaret.

Charles looked at Margot, and Margot gazed at Charles. He saw the
prettiest girl he had ever seen in his life. He said,

‘How do you do, Miss Standing?’




                               Chapter XX


Margot accepted the name without protest. She blinked those very black
lashes, uncurled herself, and stood up. She continued to look at
Charles.

The colour in the old green jumper and skirt of Margaret’s turned her
pale blue eyes to turquoise green. Sometimes the black lashes darkened
them for an instant. Her skin was amazingly fair and fine. The roses in
her cheeks were the prettiest pink roses in the world.

She dimpled at Charles and inquired,

‘How did you know my name?’

‘I guessed.’

‘I don’t see how you could guess.’

‘Margaret guessed too.’

‘Did she? Margaret, how did you guess?’

‘If you want to keep your name a secret,’ said Charles, ‘you mustn’t
talk about your cousin Egbert.’

‘Or your father’s collection of Lelys and Turners.’ Margaret’s tone was
a little hard.

Margot turned to Charles.

‘You won’t make me go back?’

‘Tell me why you don’t want to go back?’

Margot told him. The story was the same story that she had told to
Margaret, and that Margaret had repeated to him. While she was speaking,
he tried to piece together what she had heard Egbert say, and what he
himself had overheard. The pieces fitted. But there were gaps which he
meant to fill.

‘You won’t send me back—will you? It’s such a big house, and what they
said about _removing_ me gave me a most frightful sort of creepy
feeling. It really did.’

It gave Charles a creepy feeling too.

‘No, we won’t send you back. But I think you ought to let your lawyer
know where you are.’

Margot turned quite pale.

‘Mr Hale!’

‘Is that his name?’

‘Mr James Hale. His father was a friend of poor Papa’s. He said Papa
said all sorts of things to his father.’

‘Well, I think you ought to tell him where you are.’

‘Oh, I don’t _want_ to.’

‘Why on earth not?’

She leaned forward whispering,

‘I _thought_—perhaps he was the person who was going to give the orders
about _removing_ me.’ She shivered a little. ‘It would be frightful if I
told him and he _was_.’

Charles agreed—he remembered a certain reference to ‘the lawyer’. Where
everything was so uncertain, it was better to take no step than a false
one.

‘All right. You stay here, and we don’t tell anyone for a day or two.
I’ll try and find out about your Mr Hale. What relations have you got?’

Margot giggled.

‘Everybody asks me that. I haven’t got any relations except Egbert.’

‘What? None at all?’

‘Isn’t it funny not to have any? Papa only had one brother, and he only
had Egbert. Papa hated Egbert. And if my relations were going to be like
_him_, I’m frightfully glad they never got born.’

‘What about your mother?’

Margot looked important.

‘I don’t _even_ know her name—not for certain, you know. I _think_ it
was Esther Brandon.’

Margaret swooped into the conversation.

‘Don’t say that!’

Margot stared at her.

‘I do think so. That’s why I took it. I think I’d better be called
Esther Brandon—don’t you? Because if I go on being Margot Standing,
those people might find me.’

Margaret turned away. She said,

‘Don’t talk nonsense! You can’t call yourself Esther Brandon.’

Then she went over to the bookcase, picked up a book at random, and
began to flick the pages over.

‘Why can’t I? Why is it nonsense?’ Margot spoke to Charles, not to
Margaret.

‘Well, there’s quite a good reason.’

‘But I can’t be Margot Standing.’

‘No, you can’t—can you? Let’s think of something else. You can be Miss
Smith.’

She gave a little shriek.

‘No, I can’t! Not Smith! Not after that horrible Percy Smith!’

‘Brown then, or Wilson—unless you know any bad Browns or wicked
Wilsons.’

Margot giggled.

‘I’ll be Wilson—I’d rather be Wilson than Brown.’

‘Brown,’ said Charles reprovingly, ‘is a good old Scottish name.’

‘I’ll be Wilson. Shall I be Margot Wilson?’

Charles considered the question, and shook his head.

‘No, I don’t think so. Margot is too uncommon. We’ll make up something
else out of Margaret. I suppose you _are_ Margaret?’

The other Margaret stood with her back to them, flicking over the pages
of her book. She had no idea what the book was. Charles and Margot,
sitting close together, talking in low confidential tones, playing a
foolish game of names. It was her flat, and she had known Charles Moray
for fourteen years; but it was she who had the sense of strangeness and
intrusion—she, and not Margot. Margot appeared to be perfectly at home.
She heard her giggle and protest, ‘I won’t be Daisy!’

Charles offered her ‘Rita,’ and got a little shriek of ‘Oh—_no_!’ in
reply.

‘Why not? It’s a very nice name.’

‘It’s not—it’s frightful.’

‘Have Madge then.’

‘That’s worse.’

‘Madge is a perfectly good name.’

‘I won’t have it.’

‘What about Margie?’

‘Frightful! It’s exactly like margarine.’

‘Well, there aren’t any others.’

‘There’s Meg,’ said Margot. ‘I wouldn’t mind being Meg.’

Margaret felt as if someone had run a sharp knife into her very
suddenly. Charles had called her Meg just once or twice—just once or
twice. She did not hear what he said. She turned another page and read:
‘Oh, Greta’s banks are fresh and fair.’ She laughed and called over her
shoulder,

‘You can be Greta.’

Margot got up and ran to her.

‘Did you find it in your book? Let me see! I rather like it. Where is
it? Oh—why is it banks? Is it a river? It says, “Greta’s banks are
fresh and fair”.’

‘Very appropriate,’ said Charles.

The bell rang. Margaret pushed Sir Walter Scott back into the bookshelf
and went to the door. Mr Archie Millar stood there with a deprecating
smile.

‘I say, may I come in? Is there a spot of tea going?’

He was surprised at the warmth of his welcome, surprised and a good deal
stimulated. Margaret and he had been very good pals for years. He began
at this moment to feel a faint dawn of sentiment.

Margaret went back into the sitting-room with a little colour in her
cheeks. Archie, behind her, caught sight of Charles, hailed him, and
then, beholding Miss Margot Standing, stood agaze. It was Charles who
rose to the occasion.

‘This is Archie Millar. You’ll get used to him. Archie, make your best
bow to Miss Greta Wilson. She’s staying with Margaret.’

The prettiest roses in the world became two shades deeper. Miss Greta
Wilson giggled, looked between her black lashes, and found Archie a
pleasant young man. In half a minute they were deep in conversation. In
three minutes he had discovered that she had only just left school, that
she didn’t know anyone in London, and that she loved revues, adored
chocolates, and considered _Moonlight and You_ the divinest waltz
_ever_.

Margaret had begun to get tea. She passed to and fro from the minute
kitchen. Charles did not offer to help her. He stood by the window
looking down absently upon the darkening street. The lime-tree over the
way had begun to lose its leaves; those that still remained were as
golden as ripe corn. What on earth were they to do with the girl, far
too pretty not to be remembered, far too naïve and inexperienced to be
set adrift on dangerous waters full of strange cross currents and secret
depths? A golden leaf fell wavering to the ground. Archie’s voice broke
in:

‘Charles! Here, wake up! What about our all goin’ on the bust tonight? A
festive beano—what?’

Charles shook his head, and was adjured not to look like an undertaker’s
assistant.

‘She says she hasn’t seen a thing—you did say you hadn’t didn’t you?’

Miss Greta Wilson nodded.

‘Appallin’—isn’t it? I don’t see how we can let it go on for another
day. What about dinner for four and the best show we can get into at
this sort of last moment?’

Charles shook his head again. The prospect of producing Greta in public
was a daunting one—‘She’s too pretty by half, and Lord knows whom we
should meet.’

‘Then what about you and me?’ said Archie. ‘I must have somethin’ to
cheer me up after the horrid blow I’ve just had—straight out of the
blue, and no time to put an umbrella up.’ He addressed Miss Greta
Wilson, who inquired if it were raining.

Archie looked at her reproachfully.

‘I’ve had a blow that’s dashed my proudest hopes into
what-you-may-call-’ems.’

‘What has happened, Archie?’ said Margaret. ‘Tea is ready.’

‘Unconscious of their doom, the little blighters played.’

‘What little blighters? Yes, Charles, two more chairs.’

‘My fondest hopes,’ said Archie—‘shattered by a bolt.’ He produced a
crumpled copy of the evening paper and waved it. ‘I shall want heaps and
heaps of tea. The blow has driven me to drink.’

‘What on earth’s happened? Charles, will you cut the bread? The knife’s
most awfully blunt.’

‘There’s womanly sympathy for you!’ said Archie. ‘I’ve got a broken
heart, and she talks about blunt knife! I’ve lost my heiress. Pain and
anguish wring my brow. And no one offers to be a ministerin’
angel—unless Greta will. Will you be a ministerin’ angel, Greta?’

The late Miss Margot Standing dimpled, coloured, and said,

‘It’s frightfully romantic. I’d love to.’

‘Here’s your tea, Archie. I didn’t know you’d got an heiress. Charles,
that’s yours—there are four lumps of sugar in it.’

‘Nobody knew but me. Concealment’s been preyin’ like a tiddleyum upon my
damask cheek—Shakespeare! And I’ve been sittin’ like Patience on a
thing-ummy-jig smilin’ at grief—more Shakespeare—same speech—_ibid_,
as they say in the books.’

‘Who was she?’

‘She _wasn’t_ an heiress,’ said Archie mournfully. ‘What’s the good of
my fixin’ my young affections on a girl with several millions tacked on,
when the evenin’ paper suddenly bursts out with the horrid bomb that she
isn’t goin’ to have the millions after all? Alas, they are another’s;
they never can be mine—not Shakespeare this time. The cash is
Egbert’s.’

Greta dropped her teacup with a splash. The tea dripped on the green
jumper. She repeated, ‘Egbert!’ giggled, and repeated it again.

‘Egbert Standing,’ said Archie. ‘Revoltin’ name! The daily press that
never lies says that Egbert scoops the lot—he gets the whole caboodle,
and Margot doesn’t even get a smell of it. I’ve taken to drink.’

He passed up his cup.

Miss Greta Wilson made no attempt to wipe the tea off her jumper. She
fixed her pale blue eyes on Archie with the unwinking stare of a kitten
and asked,

‘Did you know her?’

Archie shook his head.

‘Perhaps she’s frightfully ugly,’ pursued Greta.

‘She’s probably hideous,’ said Archie. ‘If she weren’t, there’d have
been about a million photos of her in all the papers.’

Greta’s colour rose.

‘Would you marry a girl who was perfectly hideous, just because she had
heaps of money?’

‘Ah!’ said Archie. ‘If it were to keep my Aunt Elizabeth’s parrot out of
the workhouse, I might. Some day I’ll tell you all about it—“A Hero’s
Sublime Sacrifice. A Parrot’s Trust Rewarded. Devoted Nephew Saves
Indigent Feathered Friend. Matchless Masterpiece In Seventeen Episodes
Featurin’ Archibald Millar.” Hullo, that’s an idea! Let’s all go to the
pictures. I feel as if it might soothe me to sit in the dark and hold
Margaret’s hand.’ He said ‘Margaret’, but he looked at Greta.

Greta blushed.




                              Chapter XXI


They went to the cinema. Charles did not see very much of the film. What
on earth were they to do with the girl? Margaret was out all day. Would
Greta sit at home like a good little girl and twiddle her thumbs? ‘I
_don’t_ think,’ said Charles. He gazed gloomily at a close-up of a
glad-eyed heroine embracing a strong, silent hero. The embrace seemed to
last an unconscionable time.

They came out into a fine drizzle of rain. Charles felt himself touched
on the arm. He looked round and saw an old lady in a black cloak and an
old-fashioned bonnet. She was holding up an umbrella, but she held it
tilted sideways so that Charles could see her face. Under the meekly
banded hair Miss Maud Silver’s nondescript eyes looked at him.

For a yard or two they walked side by side. The umbrella was no longer
tilted, but a small, old voice spoke from beneath it:

‘Jaffray is just ahead of us—there, beyond the big man in the overcoat.
I’d like you to follow him. He’s going to meet someone.’

Charles said, ‘All right,’ and looked round for the rest of his party.
Archie was in the road waving to a taxi; Margaret and Greta on the kerb.

He reached Margaret, said goodnight hurriedly, and pursued the deaf man.
It was easy enough to keep him in view without being remarked as long as
the pavement was so crowded; one had only just to keep one’s own place
in the stream and move with it. Presently, however, there was no stream,
and Charles fell back a little. Mr Jaffray got into a Hammersmith bus,
and as he went inside, Charles thought it as well to go outside.

At Hammersmith Broadway Jaffray got out and walked again. Charles kept
the other side of the narrow street. It went on drizzling, but Jaffray
had no umbrella, nor had Charles. He reflected that an umbrella was the
best disguise in the world.

Jaffray walked on and on. Charles had been wondering whether the man was
merely going home; but he passed the turning that led to Gladys Villas
and kept on at the same steady pace. When he came to the Great West
Road, he turned on to it and kept on walking. Charles began to wonder
whether he meant to walk to Slough—or Bath. However, after a quarter of
a mile Jaffray stopped, took out a watch, looked at it, and began to
walk slowly up and down.

Charles felt at a disadvantage. There is no cover on the Great West
Road. Pedestrians are sufficiently few in number to attract attention,
and every inch of the roadway and the spaces beside it were continually
lit up by the glare of passing headlights. The place was about as public
as the middle of an empty ballroom, and almost as brightly lighted.

Jaffray walked up and down, and Charles lurked as far from the track of
the headlights as he could. Ten minutes passed. Charles decided that he
had no vocation for the life of a sleuth; it appeared to him utterably
dreary, boring, flat, and dull. If it hadn’t been so damp, he would have
sat down, gone to sleep—and finished the night as a drunk at the
nearest police station. This exhilarating thought had just occurred to
him, when something happened.

A large Daimler coming from London slowed down as it passed him and
stopped near Jaffray. It stopped at the moment that Jaffray was shaking
out an unusually large white handkerchief.

Charles meandered slowly towards the car. It had a London number. He
noted it. By the time he had done this, Jaffray was in the car, and the
car was off.

One cannot pursue a Daimler on foot. Charles went home in a most
disgruntled mood.

On Monday morning he visited Miss Silver. She had finished the grey
stockings, and was knitting something small, white, and fleecy that
looked like a baby’s boot. She nodded to Charles and went on knitting.

‘Sit down, Mr Moray. Did you follow Jaffray?’

‘Yes, I did.’

‘What happened?’

Charles told her what happened. She nodded again.

‘Yes, I knew it would be the Great West Road, and I didn’t think my
make-up was altogether suitable. Did you see who was in the car?’

‘One man.’

‘Did you see his face?’

The busy needles stopped for a moment as she asked the question.

‘He was wearing dark goggles,’ said Charles.

Miss Silver went on knitting.

‘I wish you had seen his face—but it can’t be helped.’

‘I’ve got the number of the car.’

‘So have I,’ said Miss Silver. ‘Jaffray bought it on Friday.’

‘_Jaffray_ bought it!’

‘Jaffray bought it from Hogstone and Cornhill. He paid for it in notes
and took it away on Saturday afternoon to a garage in the Fulham Road.’

‘Who fetched it away?’ said Charles.

‘Jaffray did. He called for it about eight o’clock on Saturday evening.’

Charles frowned.

‘Jaffray called for it, but someone else drove it down the Great West
Road and picked Jaffray up at eleven o’clock—’

‘Of course I don’t know,’ said Miss Silver; ‘but Jaffray probably parked
the car somewhere, and the owner picked it up.’

‘Who is the owner?’

‘I wish you had seen his face,’ said Miss Silver.

‘You don’t know?’

‘No, I don’t know. I have the numbers of the notes. I will try and trace
them back.’ There was a pause. Then she said, ‘Have you anything to tell
me, Mr Moray?’

Charles said, ‘No,’ and then added, ‘I’ve things to ask you. I want to
know more about the servants in the Standing household.’

‘Who do you want to know about?’

‘All the men servants, I think—a footman called William in particular.’

Miss Silver laid down her white fleecy knitting and took up the brown
exercise-book.

‘I have some notes about the servants here.’ She turned the pages and
read; ‘ “Pullen”—the butler’s name is Pullen.’

‘How long has he been there?’

‘A few weeks only. I was going to explain that to you—none of the
servants have been there for more than a few weeks with the exception of
the housekeeper, Mrs Long, and her daughter, who is head housemaid. The
house was shut up all the summer. Miss Standing was abroad for the
summer holidays with her chaperone, Mrs Beauchamp. Mr Standing was not
in town. Mrs Long and her daughter act as caretakers, and Mrs Long
engages servants when Mr Standing wishes the house to be opened. He came
back for a fortnight in September, and was expected again next month.
All the servants were engaged in September. Is that clear?’

‘Quite.’

‘Pullen, then, is the butler. I have what the French would call his
_dossier_. His last place was with the Dowager Lady Perringham at her
place in Dalesshire.’ Miss Silver broke off and coughed gently. ‘Lady
Perringham was fortunate enough not to suffer from the epidemic of
burglary which took place in her neighbourhood last year.’

‘There were burglaries?’

‘I thought perhaps you might have read about them. Most of the big
houses in the neighbourhood suffered. The historic Dale Leston silver
was stolen, and has never been recovered. The Kingmore pearls were
taken. Lady Perringham was fortunate. Pullen was with her for six
months. Before that he was in Scotland with Mr Mackay. Do you remember
the St Andrade burglary?’

Charles shook his head.

‘I’ve been in the wilds.’

‘Mr St Andrade is a Brazilian millionaire—that is, he made his money in
Brazil. His wife had a collar of emeralds which were reputed to be the
finest in the world. They were stolen whilst Mr St Andrade was occupying
a shooting-box about five miles from Mr Mackay’s. The thief was
surprised, and the emeralds were dropped by him in his flight.’

‘I see,’ said Charles. ‘Go on.’

‘There are two footmen,’ said Miss Silver. ‘Frederick Smith—no, I don’t
think there’s really anything of interest with regard to Frederick
Smith—a coachman’s son; very respectable; last character satisfactory,
three years. The other footman is William Cole. He was for three months
with Mrs James Barnard, and left at the close of the season with a good
character. The only curious thing about William Cole is this—I can’t
find out where he came from, or what he was doing before he went to Mrs
James Barnard.’

‘Did anything odd happen whilst he was there—to Mrs Barnard or to any
of her friends?’

‘No,’ said Miss Silver. ‘No—not exactly, Mr Moray. Of course there was
the scandal about Mr Barnard’s nephew.’

‘What scandal?’

‘It was hushed up. He was said to have forged his uncle’s name. He has
left the country, I understand.’

There seemed to be a lot of tangled threads that led nowhere.

Charles hesitated. Then he said.

‘There is some connection between William Cole and Egbert Standing. I
think Egbert Standing is Number Thirty-two of Grey Mask’s little lot.
William is probably Twenty-seven—I’m not sure—it might be Pullen. I
don’t know about Pullen—he sounds a bit fishy. But I’m sure William is
in it up to the neck, and I rather think he’s Number Twenty-seven.’

Miss Silver turned back the pages of the brown copy-book.

‘Twenty-seven came to report. You saw him. What was he like?’

‘I saw his back—tallish—thinnish—bowler hat—overcoat. Any number of
him walking about all over London.’

‘It might be William,’ said Miss Silver. ‘Pullen is the typical
butler—a stout sedate person.’

‘It wasn’t Pullen.’

Miss Silver fixed her eyes upon him.

‘Why do you think it was William?’

‘I’m afraid I can’t tell you that.’

‘You are not being very frank, are you?’

‘Not very,’ said Charles with a disarming smile.

Miss Silver sighed. After a pause she proceeded to give the dull
histories of housemaids, bootboys, and so forth.

‘Any news of Miss Standing?’ said Charles.

Miss Silver gazed placidly at him.

‘Do you wish me to give you news of Miss Standing?’ she said.

It was years since Charles had blushed; he did not blush now. He smiled
delightfully.

‘Or of Miss Langton?’ said Miss Silver, still gazing.

She saw the dark colour come into his face. With a little nod she turned
her attention to the white boottee.

Charles took his leave. He admired Miss Silver; but he became aware that
he was a good deal afraid of her.




                              Chapter XXII


Whilst Charles was interviewing Miss Silver, Miss Greta Wilson was
writing to Stephanie Polson.

    Oh, Stephanie, I’ve had the most thrilling adventures. I’m
    really having them still. It’s frightfully exciting, and you’ll
    be frightfully angry with me, because I can’t tell you about
    them—at least I can only tell you bits, because I promised
    Charles and Margaret I wouldn’t tell anyone the other bits—at
    least not till they said I could. So you’ll just have to be
    frightfully angry. I’m staying with Margaret, and I can’t even
    tell you her name or give you my address, because that’s one of
    the bits I promised not to. Margaret is a dear, and so is
    Charles. Margaret has known him for years and years and years,
    but I do believe he really likes me best, because he took me out
    for the whole day yesterday which was Sunday, and he didn’t take
    Margaret, though it’s her day at home. She works in a hat-shop
    every day, and she doesn’t get home till half-past six—so it
    would be very dull for me, only Charles says he will come and
    cheer me up. Archie would come too if he could. Archie is
    another friend of Margaret’s. He and Charles are friends too.
    It’s frightfully jolly everyone being friends, after having such
    a dreadfully dull time. Archie can’t come and take me out like
    Charles can, because he has to go to his office. He says he is
    an oddment in a publishing firm. He says they only took him
    because his uncle was in it. He says he is rotten at it. But I
    think he is frightfully clever—he knows lots of quotations out
    of Shakespeare and other people like that. I don’t know whether
    I like him best or Charles. Charles is an explorer, but he isn’t
    exploring just now. He is the handsomest. He has grey eyes and a
    most frightfully romantic frown, but he isn’t quite as tall as
    Archie is. Archie is five feet eleven and three-quarters, and he
    says if he hadn’t been brought up frightfully strictly and
    simply made to tell the truth, he would call it six foot. He has
    got blue eyes, but not many eyelashes—just ordinary, you know.
    But Charles has a lot of black eyelashes and frightfully black
    eyebrows. They go all twisty when he is cross. I shouldn’t like
    them to go all twisty at me.

    Saturday was the first day I was with Margaret, and Charles and
    Archie came to tea, and we all went to the cinema and saw a most
    frightfully thrilling drama—only I can’t tell you about it now.
    Archie came home with us, but Charles rushed off in a
    frightfully sudden sort of way as soon as we came out. On Sunday
    morning he came quite early with a car, and he said would I like
    to go down to Bognor, and I said I would, and we went. He didn’t
    ask Margaret.

    In the evening he and Archie came to supper. They brought their
    supper with them because Margaret said she hadn’t any. Archie
    brought sardines and bananas, and Charles all sorts of exciting
    things—lots more than we could eat, so Margaret and I are
    eating them up—they are frightfully good. He brought chocolates
    too—really thrilling ones. I think I really do like Charles
    best. But I like Archie too. After supper Mr Pelham came in. He
    is Margaret’s stepfather, and I’m not sure whether I ought to
    have said what his name was, so don’t tell anyone and _tear my
    letter up_, because I sort of promised Margaret I wouldn’t say
    anyone’s name. But I think she’s a bit of a fuss, don’t you? It
    isn’t as if you’d be seeing Egbert—is it? Margaret’s stepfather
    is frightfully nice. They all call him Freddy. He said I could
    too. I’ve never called such an old person by their Christian
    name before, so I didn’t do it at first—not till he seemed
    quite hurt and said didn’t I like him. So of course I said I
    did, and then I called him Freddy, only I got most frightfully
    red when I did it, and they all laughed, and Freddy said he felt
    most frightfully flattered, and he said might he have the
    pleasure of taking me to a matinee, and what would I like to
    see, and could I come on Wednesday? But I said couldn’t it be
    Saturday so Margaret could come too? And he said ‘All right’,
    and he asked Charles to come, and Charles said he would. He
    didn’t like it when Freddy asked me, nor did Margaret. I don’t
    know why they didn’t. Archie couldn’t come because he was
    playing a football match. Charles says he is very good at it.

    I mustn’t write any more, because I shall use all Margaret’s
    paper, and I’ve only got a shilling to buy any more. When you’ve
    only got a shilling, there are hundreds of things you want to
    buy.

                                                             MARGOT




                             Chapter XXIII


Charles went back to Miss Silver next day.

‘Do you know anything of one Ambrose Kimberley?’ he inquired.

Miss Silver dropped a stitch and picked it up again before she answered:

‘I know the name.’ Then, before Charles could say anything more, she
spoke briskly: ‘There are some things I want to tell you, Mr Moray. I
should have telephoned to you if you hadn’t come in.’

‘Go on,’ said Charles.

She took up the brown exercise-book.

‘We’ll take Jaffray first. He came back on Sunday. I haven’t been able
to trace the car yet.’

‘Or the owner?’

‘Or the owner.’ She tapped the page with a knitting-needle. ‘So much for
Jaffray. I really wanted to see you about William Cole. I have found out
who he is.’

‘Is he someone?’

‘He is Leonard Morrison.’

Charles look blank.

‘I’m afraid that conveys nothing to me.’

‘Nonsense!’ said Miss Silver. ‘Six years ago—the Thale-Morrison
case—you must remember it.’

Charles began to remember.

‘You don’t mean to say that William—?

‘Is Morrison? Yes, I do. He’d have got a life sentence if it had not
been for his youth. He was, I think, only just eighteen, and the Court
took it into account.’

Charles began to remember the case—a horrible one.

‘Yes,’ said Miss Silver. She nodded, as if in answer to something which
he had not said. ‘Yes, a most cold-blooded, dangerous young man and an
astonishingly good actor. All through the trial he was acting, and the
Court pronounced sentence on a dull backward lout of a lad. They never
had a glimpse of the real Leonard Morrison.’

Miss Silver fixed a direct look upon Charles Moray.

‘Mr Moray, I want to ask you very seriously what you’re going to do.’

‘I don’t know,’ said Charles.

‘How long are you going to wait before you call in the police?’

‘I don’t propose to call in the police.’

Miss Silver sighed gently.

‘You will have to call them in in the end. How far are you going to let
things go before you take a step which you ought to have taken at the
very beginning?’

Charles set his jaw.

‘Do you think they would have believed me if I had gone to them?’

‘I don’t know.’

‘I do. They would have said I was drunk, and I should have been told in
quite polite officialese to go home and boil my head. Come, Miss Silver!
Did you believe my story yourself?’

Miss Silver closed the exercise-book and sat back in her chair.

‘Since you ask me, Mr Moray, I was inclined to think you had been dining
a little too well. You did not appear to me to be suffering from
hallucinations. No, I must confess I thought you had been—shall I
say—celebrating your return.’

‘And you still think so?’

‘No,’ said Miss Silver.

‘Well?’

‘I believe that you stumbled upon a very dangerous set of people engaged
in a criminal conspiracy. I believe Miss Standing to be in serious
danger, and I ask you again—how far are you going to let matters go?’
She coughed very gently and added, ‘You will not be able to screen Miss
Langton indefinitely.’

Charles was stabbed by a most acute and poignant fear. He mastered his
voice and said coolly,

‘What do you mean?’

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘Now, Mr Moray, what is the use of our pretending any longer? I am going
to lay my cards on the table, and you would be very well advised to do
the same. I know perfectly well that Miss Standing has been staying with
Miss Langton since Friday night. She left home at about six o’clock on
Friday, and Miss Langton brought her back to her flat in a taxi at a
quarter to eleven. I don’t know what happened in the interval.
Naturally, you do.’

‘Do I?’

‘Oh, I think so. You helped Miss Langton to get Miss Standing
upstairs—she was exhausted and hysterical.’

‘She had had a fright,’ said Charles, ‘nothing serious.’

‘I’m glad to know that. I don’t ask you why you were not frank with me
about Miss Standing’s whereabouts.’ She coughed again. ‘I don’t ask you,
because I know.’

‘Well,’ said Charles pleasantly, ‘what do you know? Or shall I say, what
do you think you know?’

Miss Silver took up her knitting. She had arrived at the toe of the
little white bootee.

‘I will tell you what I think. You stumbled upon a conspiracy. You saw a
number of people whom you did not recognize. They were men. Well, I
think, Mr Moray, that you saw another person whom you did recognize. I
think this person, was a woman—I think it was Miss Langton.’

‘What a remarkably vivid imagination you have, Miss Silver!’ said
Charles.

Miss Silver counted her stitches—three—four—five—six—seven. After a
moment’s pause she spoke again:

‘I think so because I cannot account otherwise for your allowing Miss
Standing to run so many risks. She should be under police protection.
You know that, I think.’

‘She’s under Miss Langton’s protection, and mine.’

Miss Silver looked at him sorrowfully.

‘You have confidence in Miss Langton’s protection?’

‘Complete confidence. Besides, they don’t know where she is.’

‘I’m afraid they do.’

Charles was really startled.

‘What makes you think so?’

‘You mentioned a name when, you came in, Mr Moray—you asked me if I
knew anything about Ambrose Kimberley. Why did you ask me that?’

There was a silence. Miss Silver broke it.

‘Pray, Mr Moray, be frank with me,’ she said. ‘In a matter as serious as
this, I must warn you that concealment is a very dangerous policy for
yourself, for Miss Standing, and, in the long run, for Miss Langton
too.’ She coughed in her gentle ineffective way. ‘I will tell you about
Ambrose Kimberley. I spoke of him yesterday; but not, I think, by name.’

‘Yesterday?’

‘I told you that William Cole had been for three months with Mrs James
Barnard, and when you asked me whether there had been any trouble in the
family during that time, I mentioned that a nephew of Mr Barnard’s had
left the country in disgrace.’

‘What about it?’

‘The nephew’s name was Ambrose Kimberley.’

There was a long pause. Charles stared at the bare wall in front of him,
which was not bare to him; he saw pictures on it. He turned from the
pictures to Miss Silver.

‘Ambrose Kimberley called at Miss Langton’s flat yesterday. He found
Miss Standing alone there. By the way, as you know everything, you
probably know that we thought it wise to change her name.’

‘To Greta Wilson—yes, I know that.’

‘Kimberley introduced himself as a friend of Miss Langton’s. As a matter
of fact, she met him twice last winter at dances. When was he supposed
to have left the country?’

‘I think it was in June. The affair was kept very secret, you
understand. There were no proceedings. Mr Barnard pocketed his loss, and
only about half a dozen people knew that anything had happened. Now, Mr
Moray, I asked you just now whether you thought Miss Langton was to be
trusted. Do you still think so after hearing what I have just told you?’

‘Why not?’

‘Who gave away Miss Standing’s whereabouts?’

‘Someone saw her, I suppose,’ said Charles.

‘Someone? You have to remember how very few people know her by sight.
She had not been in England for a year. She had not been photographed.
She only came to Miss Langton late on Friday night.’

‘She was at a cinema on Saturday.’

‘In a hat that practically hid her face. I saw her, you know; and I
should be hard put to it to remember her. Between that hat and her big
fur collar there was very little to recognize.’

Charles moved impatiently. Miss Silver went on:

‘Ambrose Kimberley turned up on Monday. Do you believe that he came to
see Miss Langton? Mr Moray, you are playing a very dangerous game.’

Charles Moray’s face was cold and hard.

‘You had better speak plainly,’ he said.

‘I am speaking very plainly—I am warning you that Miss Langton is not
to be trusted—I am warning you that Margot Standing is in serious
danger.’

‘Not unless one of those certificates turns up,’ said Charles quickly.
‘They won’t bother with her if she’s illegitimate—why should they?
Egbert Standing gets the money. That’s all they want, isn’t it?’

‘They wanted him to marry her, didn’t they? And she refused. Why don’t
you tell me what you know about that?’

Charles got up.

‘Miss Silver—’

‘You had much better tell me everything.’

A bitter gleam of humour crossed his face.

‘If I don’t tell you, you find out. Is that what you mean?’

‘It saves trouble.’

‘If I tell you—’ He burst into hard laughter.

‘Sit down, Mr Moray.’

Charles walked up and down.

‘I’ll tell you what she told us. You’re right—you’d better know—I
don’t want to keep you in the dark. You’re wrong about Miss
Langton—utterly wrong. I’ve known her for years. She is incapable—’

‘Of letting anyone down?’

The colour rushed violently into Charles Moray’s face.

‘Sit down, Mr Moray,’ said Miss Silver.

Charles sat down, and told her Margot’s story as Margot had told it to
Margaret.




                              Chapter XXIV


When he had finished, Miss Silver laid her knitting in her lap.

‘Just a moment, Mr Moray. I think we want to get things clear. We have a
conspiracy, and there are a number of persons whom we suspect of being
involved in it. You have the advantage of having seen some of these
people. I would like to go back to the night of October third and just
see whether any of these people can be identified. You looked into the
room where the man in the grey mask was transacting his business. You
saw him—’

Charles shrugged his shoulders.

‘I saw nothing that anyone could recognize. I can think of no one whom I
suspect of being Grey Mask.’

‘I have come across him before,’ said Miss Silver ‘—not as Grey Mask of
course; but in the last five or six years I have constantly come across
small bits of evidence which have led me to suspect that there is one
man behind a number of co-ordinated criminal enterprises. He pulls a
great many strings, and every now and then I have come across one of
them. Well—there was a second man sitting with his back to you.’

‘In an overcoat and a felt hat,’ said Charles.

‘You didn’t see his face?’

‘Not a glimpse.’

‘You heard his voice?’

‘A very ordinary one,’ said Charles, ‘no accent.’

‘What make of man?’

‘Fairly broad in the shoulders. Not tall, from the way he was sitting.’

‘It might have been Pullen,’ said Miss Silver meditatively.

‘It might have been ten thousand other people,’ said Charles with
impatience.

Miss Silver went on in a placid voice:

‘Then there was another man keeping the door. They alluded to him as
Forty. Well, we know that Forty is Jaffray, who was Mr Standing’s valet
and on board the yacht when Mr Standing was drowned. You did not
actually hear Mr Standing’s name mentioned; but you picked up a piece of
paper with the last syllable of his name, and you heard one of the men
speak of Margot. Grey Mask spoke of Forty having been at sea, and made a
number of allusions to his connection with an unnamed man afterwards
drowned. It is clear that the late Mr Standing was meant. Now we pass to
the fourth man—Twenty-seven. He came in to report. I think he was
William Cole. And I think the man with no number was Pullen. A fifth
man, who was described as a jellyfish and as being unwilling to marry
the girl, is certainly Egbert Standing.’

Charles nodded.

‘I give you Egbert. But as to the rest, it’s the very purest
conjecture.’ He laughed. ‘You ask me when I’m going to the police. What
do you suppose they would make of those surmises of yours? Pullen is
secretary of a criminal conspiracy because Lady Perringham didn’t lose
her pearls whilst he buttled for her. You see? William Cole has been in
prison; therefore he is Number Twenty-seven, with a roving commission to
murder inconvenient heiresses. Good Lord! You ask why I don’t go to the
police? What sort of fool should I look if I did? I saw hats, overcoats,
a muffler, a mask, and a shirt-front. I should be making a prize ass of
myself, and you know it.’

He laughed again. He was fighting desperately for Margaret, and fighting
in the dark. They were lovers no more, and friends no more; but the
instinct to fight for her survived both love and friendship; it rose up
in him hard and stark. He plunged on:

‘What beats me is why they should have pitched on my house as a
rendezvous.’

‘Oh—’ said Miss Silver mildly, ‘I think I can explain that. It is a
point I was about to mention. You have a caretaker called Lattery. He is
a married man. Do you happen to know Mrs Lattery’s maiden name?’

‘No, I don’t.’

‘It was Pullen,’ said Miss Silver,—‘Eliza Pullen.’

Charles exclaimed.

‘Pullen!’

‘Pullen the butler is her brother. It would be easy for him to find out
just when the house would be empty; and a big empty house would make a
very good meeting place. Your house offers peculiar advantages. Thorney
Lane is not much frequented, and the alley-way by which access may be
had to the garden is very dark and lonely.’

Charles whistled.

Miss Silver waited a moment. Then she said,

‘Yes, Mr Moray. To continue—On the night of October third Miss Langton
was in your house, and it would help me very much if you would be frank
about this. I know that you were once engaged, and if Miss Langton’s
visit was, if I may say so, a _personal_ one, it would of course alter
the whole situation—No, Mr Moray—a moment. I will say nothing that is
not necessary; but if Miss Langton had come there to meet you, it would
account for a good deal—it would account for your reticence and for
your desire to keep the matter out of the hands of the police. It is
even possible that Miss Langton was seen by Pullen or one of the others,
and that this increases your apprehension on her account—it would be
very natural, and, if I may say so, very pardonable.’

She smiled a little deprecating smile. Charles met it with a blank
expression.

‘And if Miss Langton _had_ come to see me, would there have been
anything very strange or compromising in that? She has been free of the
house since she was a child. I have known her since she was ten years
old, Miss Silver. Will you say there was any reason why we should not
have met? Wouldn’t it be perfectly natural in the circumstances?’

‘Oh yes,’ said Miss Silver. Then she coughed. ‘You really tell lies very
badly, Mr Moray.’

‘Do I?’

‘Oh, very badly indeed. It would have been better if you had been frank
with me—much better. You see, you have told me what I wanted to know. I
was not quite sure about Miss Langton.’

Charles pushed back his chair.

‘I think we won’t discuss Miss Langton.’

Miss Silver sighed.

‘That is foolish of you. You see, I know now that you saw her with Grey
Mask, because if you had not done so, you would certainly have denied my
suggestion that she came to the house to meet you.’

‘Miss Silver!’

Miss Silver shook her head mournfully.

‘You would have been very angry indeed if you had not thought I was
offering you a way of escape. You know that.’

‘Miss Silver!’

‘Mr Moray, have you ever asked Miss Langton for an explanation of what
you saw?’

Charles was silent. He felt a sort of horrified fear of this gentle
nondescript person.

‘Mr Moray, I am most earnestly anxious to help you. _Have_ you asked
Miss Langton for an explanation?’

‘Yes,’ said Charles, ‘I have.’

‘Did she give you one?’

‘No.’

‘None at all?’

‘No.’

‘Will you now tell me where you saw Miss Langton, and in what
circumstances?’

‘She came into the room, walked up to the table, and put down a package.
She said something, and Grey Mask said something. I couldn’t hear what
they said. She only stayed a moment. I didn’t see her face.’

‘But you were in no doubt as to her identity?’

‘No.’

‘I see,’ said Miss Silver. ‘Just one more question. Was she announced in
any way?’

Charles did not answer. He heard Jaffray’s voice, a little husky,
pitched in a Cockney whisper: ‘Number Twenty-six is ’ere, guvnor.’

Miss Silver asked another question:

‘The men had numbers. Was Miss Langton designated by a number?’

Charles was silent.

Miss Silver was silent for a moment too. Then she said very gently.

‘I see that she was, Mr Moray. It must have been a great shock to you. I
think it is probable that these people have been blackmailing her. I
have come across indications of this sort of thing before. The man you
call Grey Mask works by means of blackmail—only instead of money he
demands service. That is his method. You see, it gives him a hold over
his tools—they are bound to obey.’

Charles lifted his head.

‘In Miss Langton’s case there could be no question of blackmail. There
could be nothing—’

‘There is often something that no one dreams of. Think, Mr Moray! Go
back four years. She broke her engagement a week before her wedding day.
Does a girl do that for nothing? Did she ever tell you why she did it?’

Charles Moray turned abruptly and walked out of the room. The door shut
behind him. The outer door shut behind him.

Miss Silver put away the brown exercise-book and took up her knitting.




                              Chapter XXV


Having posted a letter to Stephanie on Monday, Greta wrote another on
Tuesday:

    My dear, I keep on meeting young men. It’s really too thrilling.
    I must tell you about it. Oh, Stephanie, it is such fun not
    being at school, and having men simply glaring because you’ve
    just been polite to someone else. I think Charles must have a
    most awful temper really, because he glared in the _most_
    frightful way you ever saw. I’ve never seen anyone glare like it
    before, except on the films when they’re just going to murder
    somebody, or the girl has been carried away by Bad Pete or
    someone like that. Of course Sheikhs glare nearly the whole
    time. I think Charles is awfully like a Sheikh really. He would
    look frightfully handsome in that sort of long night-gown thing
    they wear and the thrilling thing over their heads that looks
    like a sheet tied round and round with a twisty, knotty kind of
    rope. It would suit Charles like anything—only of course Archie
    _is_ taller. But he wouldn’t make nearly such a good Sheikh,
    because he’s got rather a funny sort of face and he laughs a
    lot—and of course Sheikhs don’t. Charles was a Sheikh about
    Ambrose Kimberley. I’d only _just_ finished my letter to you
    yesterday, and was putting on my hat to go out and post it, when
    the bell rang. And when I opened the door, there was a most
    _awfully_ good-looking man standing there. And he asked if
    Margaret was in, and I said she wasn’t ever in till half-past
    six, and sometimes later. And he said wasn’t that frightfully
    dull for me? And I said, yes, it _was_. He was frightfully nice.
    I think he is a little bit taller than Archie really, and he had
    the most lovely dark eyes and chestnut hair, and if he had been
    a girl, he would have had a lovely complexion. And he said might
    he go and post my letter with me, so we did. And then he said it
    was such a fine day, wouldn’t I come for a walk? So we walked as
    far as Kensington High Street, and we looked at the shops. All
    the skirts are _quite full_. Ambrose Kimberley was frightfully
    nice. He said he didn’t often meet a girl like me. And when I
    said why didn’t he, he said ‘Because there aren’t any more.’ He
    said a lot of other things too. It is frightfully nice to have
    people saying things like that and being most awfully admiring
    and respectful. He said, wouldn’t I have lunch and go to the
    pictures with him? But I couldn’t, because Charles was coming to
    take me out. He wasn’t at all pleased about Charles, but I stood
    _firm_. I had one fright whilst I was out. I thought I saw
    Pullen across the road. He’s Papa’s butler, you know, and I
    don’t want anyone to know where I am, and if it was Pullen, he’d
    tell Egbert—and I most particularly don’t want Egbert to know.
    I do hope it wasn’t Pullen.

    When I got back to the flat, Charles was there in a most awful
    temper. He had seen Ambrose say goodbye to me at the corner, and
    he was ramping and tramping up and down like a tiger. His
    eyebrows were all twisty, and he sort of barked at me and said,
    ‘_Who was that?_’ And I wouldn’t tell him at first, not till we
    got up to the flat, and then he put on a most frightfully severe
    sort of voice, and lectured me like anything, and reminded me
    about Mr Percy Smith, which was _mean_—only you don’t know
    about _him_, and it’s too long to tell—besides I don’t want
    to—and I promised Margaret. Charles really made me cry, and
    then he was sorry and said I mustn’t. Madame’s scoldings were
    pretty fierce, but Charles was worse, only he said he was sorry
    afterwards, and of course Madam never did that. And he took me
    out to lunch, and we went to Hindhead in his car and had tea in
    Guildford, and didn’t get back till after Margaret did. I don’t
    think Margaret likes Charles to like me so much. She doesn’t say
    anything. I think she doesn’t like Charles very much really,
    though she’s known him for simply ages. We’re dining with Mr
    Pelham tomorrow. It’s frightfully difficult to call him Freddy.
    We’re dining at his house, and we’re going on to the
    theatre—instead of Saturday. Mr Pelham came round last night
    and fixed it up. Charles is coming too. I don’t know about
    Archie.




                              Chapter XXVI


Margaret came home a little earlier than usual. Business had been slack
and she had got away punctually—a thing which did not very often
happen. Greta came in full of conversation, full of Ambrose Kimberley,
full of Charles and their run to Hindhead.

‘Where is Charles?’ asked Margaret.

‘He wouldn’t come in. But he’s coming tomorrow, and he’s going to teach
me to drive his car. He did teach me a little bit today, only every time
I met something I was so frightened I just threw the wheel at him, and
he says his nerves won’t stand the strain for more than about a quarter
of an hour at a time. I said I didn’t mind going on a bit, and he said
it was frightfully brave of me.’

Greta was looking alarmingly pretty. She glowed and shone in the little
room. She made Margaret feel dingy and drab and old, with that dreadful
sense of age which is only possible when one is under five-and-twenty.
Everything had gone by her—home, friends, leisure, looks. She did not
say to herself that she had lost Charles Moray; but perhaps this one
loss included all the others.

She cleared away supper, made up the fire, and sat down with idle hands.
Greta prattled on about Archie, about Charles, about whether Archie was
better looking than Charles, or Charles better looking than Archie, or
whether Ambrose Kimberley wasn’t better looking than either of them, and
did Margaret like blue eyes or grey ones best, or did she prefer brown?

‘Yours are brown, so you ought to marry someone with blue eyes, oughtn’t
you?’—Greta’s voice was earnest—‘or grey ones. Archie has blue
eyes—hasn’t he? Of course they show a lot because of his not having
very bushy eyelashes. Now Charles—what colour would you say Charles’s
eyes were?’

‘Grey.’

‘I thought they were. I said so in my letter to Stephanie, but
afterwards I thought perhaps they weren’t. His eyelashes being so black
makes it sort of confusing. You’re sure they’re grey?’

Margaret looked into the fire.

‘Quite sure.’

She saw Charles’s eyes looking into hers, looking smilingly, teasingly,
earnestly; looking love—all gone—all past—all dead—never to come
again.

Greta went on in her soft childish voice.

‘I do like dark eyes—in a man. Don’t you? No, you wouldn’t, because
yours are dark. Margaret, have you ever been engaged?’

Margaret got up.

‘What a lot of questions!’

‘It must be such fun,’ said Greta. ‘I should like to be engaged a lot of
times before I got married, because you can’t ever go back and get
engaged again—can you?’

Margaret’s eyes stung.

‘No, you can’t go back.’

‘So you might just as well be engaged to plenty of people while you can.
Do you think Charles would be nice to be engaged to?’

‘Quite,’ said Margaret. She was standing with her back to Greta
arranging the music in a little stand.

‘That’s what I thought. I don’t think I should mind being engaged to
Charles. You see, he’s got a car, and he could teach me to drive, and I
think that’s rather important—isn’t it?’

‘_Essential_,’ said Margaret, in an odd dry voice.

‘Of course I think he’d be simply terrifying to be married to. Don’t
you?’

Margaret lifted the parcel which she had brought from her old home on
the night she first met Margot Standing. She held it stiffly at arms’
length. She spoke a little stiffly too:

‘Has he asked you to marry him?’

Greta giggled.

‘Oh, not yet. Archie hasn’t either. I want to have lots of fun first.
Florence, one of the girls at school, says her sister has been engaged
fifteen times. She’s a simply _frightfully_ pretty girl called Rose
Lefevre, and she says Rose always says it’s a great mistake to let them
rush you, because really the most amusing time is just before. Rose says
they get uppish almost at once after you’ve said “Yes”. And she says if
they’re like that when they’re engaged, what will they be like when
you’re married to them? That’s why she doesn’t ever stay engaged very
long. She says about three weeks is enough really. But Florence says
once it was only three days—only then there _was_ a row, and her father
said he wouldn’t have it and Rose was a scandal. But she’s been engaged
a lot more times since. Which do you think would be the most fun to be
engaged to—Archie, or Charles?’

Margaret came over to the table. She put her parcel down on it and began
to remove the paper wrapping.

‘I shouldn’t get engaged to either until you’re quite sure.’

‘Oh, but I _want_ to be engaged! I want to have a ring and write and
tell all the girls. I don’t want to wait. You see I could easily be not
engaged if I didn’t like it—couldn’t I? You didn’t say if you were ever
engaged. I expect you must have been. What sort of ring did you have? I
just can’t make up my mind about the ring. Sometimes I think a sapphire,
and sometimes I think all diamonds. I don’t think fair girls ought to
wear rubies. Do you?’

Margaret folded up the paper which she had taken off the parcel. It
crackled a good deal. She put it away in the bottom drawer of an old
walnut bureau before she spoke. Then she said,

‘Wait till you’ve quite made up your mind.’

‘Oh!’ said Greta; it was a quick, sudden exclamation. She jumped up, ran
to the table, and caught with both hands at the desk which Margaret had
just unpacked.

‘Margaret! Where did you get it from?’

Margaret turned in astonishment. Greta was flushed and excited.

‘Margaret, where did you get it?’

‘It’s mine—it was my mother’s.’

‘Oh!’ said Greta. She looked down at the desk. ‘It’s—it’s—do you know
I thought it was mine—I did really. And it gave me a most frightful
start, because I couldn’t think _how_ you’d got it.’

Margaret came up to the table. The desk stood between her and Greta. It
was covered in green morocco with a little diagonal pattern stamped on
it; the corners were worn shabby; there was a brass handle over a sunk
brass plate; and between the plate and the front of the desk were the
initials E.M.B. in faded gold.

Greta touched the leather.

‘I thought it was mine! It’s—it’s exactly like mine.’

‘All these old desks are alike.’

‘They don’t all have the same initials on them. Mine—no, how silly of
me!—mine has M.E.B. on it—not E.M.B.—but it’s awfully, awfully like
this one.’ She slid her finger to and fro over the initials. ‘Is this
your mother? What was her name?’

‘Mary Esther Brandon.’

Greta gave a little shriek.

‘Esther Brandon? Margaret—not _really_! Oh, Margaret, how _thrilling_!
Weren’t you frightfully, frightfully surprised when you asked me what my
name was, and I said it was Esther Brandon? Margaret—is _that_ why you
brought me home? Oh, Margaret do you think we’re relations?’

Margaret had a most curious sense of shock. Greta, with both hands on
the desk, leaning towards her, talking nineteen to the dozen—asking if
they were relations. She felt afraid. She said quickly,

‘You told me you called yourself Esther Brandon because you found a bit
of a torn letter with my mother’s signature. It may have been written to
your father or mother.’

‘It was signed Esther Brandon.’

‘That was my mother’s name before she married my father.’

‘You said Mary Esther.’

‘She never used the Mary.’

‘But it was her initial—she was M.E.B.?’

‘Yes, of course.’

‘But that’s what there was on my desk—there was M.E.B. in gold. This is
E.M.B.’ she prodded the E with a little vicious dig. ‘This is E,
Margaret—E.M.B. It’s mine that’s M.E.B.—not yours.’

Margaret gave herself a mental shake. It was like a ridiculous argument
in a dream. It meant nothing; it could not possibly mean anything. She
laughed a little.

‘I don’t really know which of her names came first; but these are her
initials, and this is her desk.’

‘What’s in it?’ said Greta.

‘It’s empty. I’m going to put it away.’

‘Margaret, do open it! I want to see if it’s like mine inside. Mine
opened like this.’

She slid the lock to one side, and the lid came up as she pulled at it.

Margaret came round the table.

‘There’s really nothing in it, Greta—just a pencil or two.’

The pencils were plain cedar pencils. Only one had been cut. Margaret
lifted out the tray.

‘You see, there’s nothing more.’

Greta bent closer.

‘Mine had a little drawer down here—a little thin drawer, in under the
place where the ink goes. That’s where my letter was—the bit with
Esther Brandon on it, you know. I shouldn’t have found my little drawer,
only I dropped the desk carrying it down, and a bit of the wood broke,
and I saw there was a drawer. And I hooked it out with a hairpin, and
there was a tiny little scrap of scrooged up paper wedged in under it.
It came out when I got the drawer out. Margaret yours _has_ got a drawer
there too—I can feel it wobble! Ooh! It’s coming out! Margaret, there’s
something in it!’

Margaret pushed her aside. The little drawer had started from its place.
There was a folded paper in it. She pulled the drawer right out.

The paper was a long envelope, doubled to fit the drawer. The minute her
fingers touched it, the fear came back. She stood looking at the wrong
side of the envelope, dreading to turn it round.

‘What is it?’ said Greta. ‘Margaret, do look—do look quickly!’

Margaret Langton turned the envelope. It was of thick yellowish paper.
It had a long crease down the middle, and three creases running across
it. At one end there was an endorsement in a bold, clear hand:

    ‘Our declaration of marriage.

                                                              E.S.’

‘Oh!’ said Greta. She pinched Margaret violently. ‘Oh,—Margaret! How
thrilling!’

Margaret frowned at the bold, clear writing. It was utterly strange to
her. Who was E.S.? Esther Brandon had become Esther Langton, and then
Esther Pelham. Who was E.S.? It wasn’t her mother’s writing at all. She
hardly felt Greta’s clutch on her arm.

‘Margaret—Margaret! It’s my father’s writing!’

She said ‘Nonsense!’ in a deep, loud voice that filled the little room
and made an echo there.

Greta let go of Margaret’s arm and snatched the envelope.

‘It is! It is! It’s poor Papa’s very own writing. It is really! And it’s
his initials too—E. S. for Edward Standing.’

Margaret put a rigid, steady hand on the paper.

‘Give it back to me, please.’

‘It says “Our declaration of marriage”. Margaret, it’s my father’s
writing! Open it—open it quickly! Don’t you see how frightfully
important it is? It’s what Mr Hale was looking for. It really is Papa’s
writing. Do—_do_ open it!’

‘Hush,’ said Margaret.

Greta flung her arms about her; and it was only when those warm arms
touched her that Margaret knew how cold she was. She was very cold, and
very much afraid.

Greta hugged her.

‘Oh Margaret _darling_, it was in your mother’s desk! Oh, Margaret,
wouldn’t it be _thrilling_ if we were sisters?’

Margaret pushed her away with violence.

‘You little fool! Hold your tongue!’

Greta stared, most innocently aggrieved.

‘Why, I’d love to be your sister. Do—_do_ open it!’

Margaret lifted the flap of the envelope. It had been stuck down, but
only very lightly; the flap came up without tearing.

The envelope was empty.




                             Chapter XXVII


‘Margaret, why do you look like that?’

‘There’s nothing in it—the envelope’s empty.’

‘Are you _sure_?’

‘Look for yourself.’

Greta held the envelope up to the light, turned it over, shook it. There
was nothing inside.

‘What a funny thing! It _is_ Papa’s writing, you know—and his initials,
and—look here! Something’s been rubbed out! Look—under the E.S.! Can’t
you see the paper’s all rubbed?’

She pressed against Margaret, pushing the envelope into her hand,
pointing with a plump pink finger. Under the initials E. S. the paper
was roughened as if it had been scraped—very, carefully and lightly
scraped.

Margaret held it close under the light. Something had certainly been
erased—initials? As she turned the paper, a faint marking just showed
here and there. Two letters had been written and then erased. Of the
first initial she could make nothing. The second—no, there was nothing,
to be made of that either. No one could make anything of those faint
marks. Why should she think that the second letter was a B?

She went over to the walnut bureau and unlocked one of the drawers. And
then, as she stood there with her back to Greta, she had a moment of
sudden, vivid memory. The endorsement on the envelope caught her eye,
and instantly that flash of memory followed. She was a child of five or
six pushing open the door of a room. The open door showed the sun
streaming in from a long window. The light fell across her mother’s
white dress. The picture was quite extraordinarily clear—Esther Langton
in a white muslin dress that swept the ground and was edged with little
gathered frills; she had a black velvet ribbon at her waist, and a bunch
of clove carnations where the muslin fichu crossed her breast; she was
bare-headed; the sun shone on her black hair. There was another woman in
the room, little and plump in a lilac dress. They did not see Margaret.
She pushed the door, and she heard her mother say, ‘It was marriage by
declaration’. She did not know what the word meant, but she liked the
sound of it. She said it to herself like a song, accenting it very much:
‘Declaration—declaration.’ The child’s pleasure in the rhythm came back
sharply. Then her mother said, ‘Lesbia—the child!’ and they saw her.

There was no more of the picture than that. It did not come back to her
in words, but as a single momentary impression. It came, and went again
even as she put the envelope into the drawer and locked it away.

The bell rang, and she turned to find Greta’s attention distracted.

‘I expect it’s Archie. He said he’d come round. I was just thinking he
wasn’t coming, and wishing he would—only I shan’t tell him that.’

Margaret went to the door. On an impulse she shut the sitting-room door
behind her and took half a step on to the landing to meet Archie Millar.

‘Archie, you have read all sorts of books. I’m being teased by something
I don’t know the meaning of—you know how bothering it is. I heard it
somewhere, and I want to know what it means.’

Archie stared.

‘Why this sudden thirst for knowledge? And why out here in the cold?
Isn’t it fit for the child’s young ears?’

‘Don’t be silly!’ Margaret managed to laugh. ‘It just came into my
head.’

What is it?’

‘Declaration. What’s marriage by declaration?’

‘Scotch marriage by declaration. The old Gretna Green business—only
nowadays you have to have a Scotch domicile. Beautifully simple
arrangement—no parsons—no relations—no fuss.’

‘What does it _mean_?’

‘Are you thinking of doin’ it? You can’t in this benighted country. Most
inferior place, England.’

‘I’m Scotch too, every bit as much as you are. My mother—’ Margaret’s
voice failed suddenly. She forced it and asked another question: ‘Is it
legal?’

‘Oh, perfectly. Not exactly smiled on, you know, but perfectly legal.’

The sitting-room door opened. Greta appeared.

‘What _are_ you doing?’

‘Discussin’ the Scotch marriage laws,’ said Archie. ‘I’m all Scotch, and
Margaret’s half-Scotch; and when Scot meets Scot, it’s about ninety-nine
to one that they’re talkin’ about law or theology. We were combinin’
them.’

Greta giggled and then pouted.

‘I don’t know any theology. Must you talk it to me?’

‘You’re not Scotch.’

‘Oh, but I _am_—at least poor Papa was. Margaret, aren’t you frozen?
Can’t we shut these doors?’

As they went into the sitting-room, Margaret said in a startled voice;

‘Was your father Scotch? I thought you said you didn’t know where he
came from.’

‘I know he lived in Scotland when he was a boy, because once when I said
how cold it was, he said, “Ah! You ought to have been brought up in
Scotland like I was.” And I said, “Oh, were you?” and he wouldn’t say
any more. But I’d rather not be Scotch if I’ve got to know about
frightful things like laws.’

‘We’ll talk about anythin’ you like,’ said Archie.

‘I’d like to talk about cars. Have you got a car? And will you take me
out in it? Charles took me out today, and I can very nearly drive.’

Archie cocked his eyebrows up and sang through his nose:

             ‘Don’t you ever take your sweetie in an auto!
             Don’t you ever take your girlie in a car!
               When she gently murmurs Charlie,
               You tread on the gas, and then—finale!
             So don’t you take your sweetie in a car!’

Greta uttered a shriek of delight.

‘What a lovely one! Do you know any more? Have you got a ukelele? Can
you play it? Will you teach me? Oh, _do_ say you will! I want to have
one most _frightfully_, and Mrs Beauchamp said they weren’t ladylike,
and Madame wouldn’t let anyone have one at school, though we simply
_pined_.’

Margaret lost Archie’s answer. She put the old desk away in a corner and
then sat down at the bureau and began to sort and tidy the pile of
miscellaneous papers. Her thoughts frightened her. The picture of her
mother standing in the sunlight kept coming back. It was astonishingly
clear and distinct, astonishingly full of light and colour. Esther
Langton’s black hair and brilliant bloom; the white dress; the red
carnations; and the sunshine. The little lady in the lilac dress whose
name was Lesbia. Her mother’s voice saying, ‘It was marriage by
declaration’.

She tore up a couple of letters and dropped them in the wastepaper
basket. Words and sentences kept forming in her mind—Our declaration of
marriage. E. S.—It’s poor Papa’s writing—it really is—and his
initials—He was brought up in Scotland!—I thought you didn’t know
where he was brought up—Of course you have to have a Scotch domicile—I
am half Scotch because of the Brandons—My mother had a Scotch
domicile—Our declaration of marriage. E. S.—It was marriage by
declaration.

Margaret’s hand shook so much that the letter she was holding dropped
from it. Why should she have thoughts like these? What had come over
her? She tried to stop the thoughts, to fix her attention on the letters
that had to be sorted. She tried to listen to Greta’s chatter.

Greta and Archie were sitting very close together, Greta gazing
earnestly into his face.

‘Charles has a moustache,’ she said. ‘Why haven’t you got a moustache?’

‘Poor old Charles looks better when a good bit of his face is covered
up.’

‘He _doesn’t_!’

‘How do you know? I know, because we played together in infancy, I knew
the lad when he had a chin not yet enriched by one appearing
hair—misquotation from Shakespeare.’

Greta giggled.

‘What a frightful lot of Shakespeare you know! I don’t know any except
“Friends, Romans, Countrymen”; and I always get that wrong after the
first three lines. I do think Shakespeare’s silly. Don’t you?’

‘Poor old William!’

‘_Frightfully_ silly,’ said Greta.

The words reached Margaret; but it was just as if Greta and Archie were
a long way off—people in a play, talking about things which hadn’t
anything to do with her. She thought strangely, passionately of her
mother. It came over her how little she knew of her early life. What she
remembered was Esther Pelham; and Esther Pelham never spoke of the time
when she was Esther Langton or Esther Brandon. There seemed nothing
strange about it. If Esther Pelham had never looked back into the past,
it was because she was so abundantly satisfied with the present, a life
full of enthusiasms, always offering fresh zest, colour, interest, new
worlds, to enjoy and conquer. Why should any woman, with all this before
her turn a remembering glance backwards? The one inexplicable thing in
Esther Pelham’s life was poor little Freddy. That he should be the most
devoted of her adorers was quite natural. But that she should have
chosen him as a husband—he adored, and for seventeen years she had
contentedly accepted his adoration. Margaret could never remember a
break in this strangely happy relationship.

Presently, when Freddy came in, she looked at him with puzzled eyes. One
got fond of Freddy. But there was nothing romantic about him; and Esther
Pelham had breathed and diffused romance.

Freddy was cheerful and affectionate.

‘Well, well, it’s very nice to see you—and Miss Greta. No, no—I must
remember my privileges. It’s Greta, isn’t it? And you’re remembering to
call me Freddy, I hope. What? Nonsense! You must, or I shall think I’m
getting old—and that won’t do—will it? Now, there’s Morley
Milton—Margaret, you remember Morley Milton—five years older than me
and getting fat. Well, no one can say I’m getting fat. Well, old
Morley’s just gone and got engaged to an heiress—done uncommon well for
himself too, I heard—a Miss Gray—or is it May, or Way? I’ve got a
shocking head for names. Why, only yesterday I met Jack Crosbie, and
said to him “How’s Polly?” and I give you my word he looked glum. And
then I remembered Polly jilted him, and I took a plunge and said “No—of
course—of course—I mean Sylvia—how’s dear little Sylvia?” And he
looked—oh, dreadfully annoyed, and walked away, and the next man I met
told me he and Sylvia don’t speak. But there, I hope he won’t bear
malice, for I wouldn’t hurt anyone’s feelings for the world—now would
I?’

Freddy flowed happily on. He paid Greta flowery compliments, and told
endless pointless stories about people whom the others had never heard
of, and in whom no one could possibly have taken any interest. Margaret
had not seen him so like himself since her mother’s death. When he got
up to go, she drew him on one side and asked the question which she had
been waiting to ask.

‘Freddy, did Mother ever have a friend called Lesbia?’

Freddy wrinkled his brow.

‘She’d such a lot of friends. I don’t think I ever knew anyone who had
so many friends as Esther did.’

‘Yes, she had. But I remember someone called Lesbia when I was a little
girl.’

‘What about her?’

‘Nothing. I just wondered who she was.’

‘Lesbia?’ said Freddy. ‘Lesbia? You’re sure it was Lesbia, and not
Sylvia?’

‘Quite sure.’

‘Because there was Sylvia Flowerdew who married Nigel Adair. No—no,
that’s wrong, because Nigel married Kitty Lennox, so it must have been
Ian who married Sylvia. Only I seem to remember Ian being married to a
dark girl with a bit of a cast in her eye—and of course some people
admire it, but I don’t myself, and Sylvia—’

‘It wasn’t Sylvia—it was Lesbia.’

Freddy brightened.

‘It wasn’t Lesbia Boyne?’

‘I don’t know. Who was Lesbia Boyne?’

‘She was Esther’s great friend about the time we married. But I think
she went out to America—yes, I think so.’

‘I never heard of her.’

‘She used to write—yes, yes, it all comes back—she used to write. And
then she stopped writing—these things drop off, you know. Now there was
Janet Gordon about the same time, always writing to Esther. No, not
Janet—Joan—Jean—Jane—hanged if I can remember the girl’s name! But
I’ll swear it began with a J. No—Elspeth—that’s it—Elspeth Gordon! Or
was it Campbell? Bless my soul. I can’t be sure. But she used to write a
dozen times a week, and now I can’t even remember her name.’

Archie was saying goodnight to Greta. He whispered something, and Greta
blushed and dimpled. Freddy turned on them, shaking a finger.

‘Don’t you believe a word he says, I don’t know what he’s saying, but
don’t you believe it. Young men are all alike. Don’t forget you’re all
dining with me tomorrow.’

Archie was quite unabashed.

‘Am I dinin’ too?’

‘Didn’t I ask you? D’you want to come? The more, the merrier—what?
Half-past seven, and don’t be late. Goodnight, everybody. Goodnight,
Greta.’ He pressed Greta’s hand and held it for a moment. ‘Aren’t you
going to say “Goodnight, Freddy”?’

Greta giggled, caught Archie’s look of disfavour, and gave Freddy a
beaming smile.

‘Goodnight, Freddy,’ she said.




                             Chapter XXVIII


‘I’ve never been to a dinner-party before,’ said Greta. ‘I’m frightfully
excited. I was afraid we were going to be late, because Margaret was
kept hours over time at her horrid shop. She had simply to whisk into
her dress in about three minutes. I’d been quite ready for half an hour
before she ever came in.’

Freddy Pelham beamed on his arriving guests.

‘Your first dinner party? And my last in this house.’

‘Your last?’

‘Didn’t Margaret tell you I was going?’

It was Charles who said, ‘Yes, she told me, but I didn’t know you were
off so soon.’

Freddy looked pathetic.

‘What’s the good of my staying on? I can’t bear it, and that’s the
fact.’

‘You’re not selling the house?’

‘No, I’m taking a leaf out of your book. I shall just lock it up and
leave it standing, and then if I want to come back, I can. This is a
little farewell party, just to keep me company my last night.’

Even Margaret looked surprised.

‘I thought you weren’t going till the end of the month.’

‘I’m moving over to my club tomorrow—letting the servants go and all
that. And I may pop off any day without saying goodbye. Hateful things
goodbyes. I shan’t say any—I shall just pop off, and the next you know
you’ll be getting picture postcards of Constantinople or Hong
Kong—what? And now let’s enjoy ourselves.’

He turned to Greta.

‘Your first dinner party? Now just think of that! I didn’t know I was to
be so much honoured. And Margaret was late? That’s too bad! Well, I
haven’t got to introduce anyone to you—have I? That’s splendid! And am
I allowed to pay you a compliment on the very charming frock you have
on?’

Greta giggled.

‘It’s Margaret’s. I haven’t got any of my own things, you know.’

‘Haven’t you? Haven’t you really? That’s too bad!’

Margaret slipped her hand inside Greta’s arm and pinched it.

‘Come and look at this bit of jade. Isn’t it pretty? I used to love it
when I was a little girl. Look—you can see the light through the grapes
if you hold it in front of the lamp.’

Greta’s attention was diverted. As she went in to dinner on Freddy’s
arm, she appeared to be occupied with the momentous question of whether
green, ‘bright green like that funny bunch of grapes’, would really suit
her. Did Freddy think it would? ‘Only I ought really to be in mourning
for poor Papa.’

Margaret saw Charles’s eyebrows go up. He made a valiant attempt to
distract Greta from what was due to ‘poor Papa’.

‘You should always wear white. I’m all for the good old-fashioned
heroine in white muslin and a blue sash. You know where you are then. If
she’s got on white muslin and a blue sash, she’s the heroine, and you’re
not kept all worked up wondering whether she’s the vamp in disguise.’

‘Very nice,’ said Freddy—‘very nice indeed. I always did like to see a
pretty girl in a white frock. Now your mother—‘he turned to
Margaret—‘your mother was wonderful in white. I remember her telling me
she wanted to wear a coloured dress when she had her miniature painted,
and the lady who did it wouldn’t hear of it. Bless my soul, I can’t
remember her name! It wasn’t Tod—no, it wasn’t Tod. And it wasn’t
Mackintosh. Now that’s really very stupid of me, for your mother used to
talk about her quite a lot and say what a pity it was she married that
cousin of hers and went out to British Columbia with him and never
touched a brush again. Nina—yes, it was Nina—No, it wasn’t McLean.
Dear me, it’s very stupid of me! She painted uncommonly well, and
exhibited every year at the Scottish Academy. But I can’t remember her
name.’

‘Wouldn’t it be on the miniature?’ suggested Archie.

‘Yes, yes, of course. We’ll have to look at it afterwards. Now you must
all have some of this entree, because it’s uncommonly good. Margaret,
you’re not eating anything. My dear, I must really insist. By the way,
that old desk of your mother’s—dear me now, I’ve forgotten what I was
going to say about it, but there _was_ something I was going to say. Now
what was it?’

‘When did Mother have it?’ said Margaret.

‘I don’t know. It’s an old thing—not worth your taking away, my dear.’

‘Oh, but it _was_,’ said Greta. ‘It was _frightfully_ exciting when we
found the little drawer.’

‘A drawer?’ Freddy’s voice was vague and puzzled.

‘A little secret drawer just like my own had, underneath the place for
the ink. And Margaret wouldn’t ever had found it for herself—would you,
Margaret? And I shouldn’t have found it either, only my desk was just
like this one and I dropped it carrying it down from the attic and a
little bit got broken, so I could see there was a drawer there. And when
I saw Margaret’s, I thought perhaps it would be the same. And it _was_.’
Greta’s tone was triumphant.

The white frock, which Margaret had had in the spring and only worn
once, was extravagantly becoming to Greta. The shaded lights touched up
the gold in her hair. She leaned bare elbows on the dark polished table
and talked with a child’s excitement.

‘Wasn’t it funny Margaret’s desk being the same as mine? It was
frightfully exciting when the little drawer came out and _there_ was the
envelope about the certificate.’

The table was a round one. Freddy Pelham had Margaret on one side of him
and Greta on the other, Archie next Margaret, and Charles next Greta. As
Greta said the word certificate, a manly heel came down hard upon the
toe of her satin shoe. She blinked and said ‘Oh!’ blinked again, and
turned indignantly on Charles.

‘You trod on me!’

Charles smiled a charming smile.

‘My dear child, what do you mean? I never tread on people.’

‘Then it was Archie. I think the front bit of my foot’s broken. Archie,
why did you tread on me?’

Archie made an indignant denial. Freddy was full of fussy concern.

‘You’re not really hurt? I do trust you are not really hurt—and just as
you were telling us such an exciting story too. Did you say, you had a
desk like Margaret’s, and that you actually found something in a secret
drawer?’

‘All scrooged up,’ said Greta, nodding her head. ‘It was _frightfully_
exciting. But I don’t think I’d better tell you about it, because I’ve
just remembered I promised I wouldn’t, so it’s no good your asking me
really. And I expect that’s why Charles trod on me—only he needn’t have
done it so hard—it hurt frightfully.’

She turned reproachful eyes on Charles, who burst out laughing.

‘Greta, if you don’t stop being an _enfant terrible_, I shall do
something worse than tread on you—I shall take you back to the flat and
lock you in.’

‘How horrid of you! Freddy, isn’t he horrid?’

‘He’s a tyrant,’ said Freddy. ‘He’s been travelling amongst savages, and
he’s forgotten how to behave. Don’t take any notice of him. We were all
getting most excited about your discovery. Don’t take any notice of
Charles. Did you say you found a certificate? What sort of a
certificate?’

Greta shook her head.

‘I did really promise I wouldn’t tell, so I won’t. I couldn’t when I’d
really promised—could I? But I’ll tell you something I didn’t promise
about, something simply frightfully exciting that only happened this
evening, and that no one knows anything about but me.’

‘Bless my soul!’ said Freddy.

Charles leaned back in his chair. He looked at Margaret; but Margaret
was looking at Greta with an air part startled, part weary. The
weariness was uppermost. He thought she looked worn out, as if she were
neither sleeping nor eating. The hastily-put-on black dress made her
seem paler still. Why did she look like that? Her eyes had no fire left
in them; they were tired—tired and hopeless.

Greta had begun her story. He reflected that one might just as well try
to stop running water.

‘It’s frightfully exciting—it really is. And even Charles doesn’t know
about it, because it happened _after_ he brought me home, and _before_
Margaret came home.’

‘What happened?’ It was Margaret who asked.

‘Well, Charles brought me home, and—Oh, Freddy, do you know, I really
can drive—can’t I, Charles? I drove two miles, and Charles never
touched the wheel once.’

‘What happened after you got home?’ This was Archie.

‘Well, I thought I’d write to Stephanie and tell her I could drive. So I
did. And then I thought I would go out and post it. So I went out, and
there was a big car standing just opposite, and the chauffeur walking up
and down. And I stopped under the lamp-post just to see if I had stuck
my letter down properly, and then I went along to the letter-box. And
when I got to the dark bit where the gardens are, I looked back because
I heard something, and I saw the car coming along ever so slowly—just
crawling, you know. And I thought it was going to stop at one of the
houses, and it did! And I ran on to the pillar-box and put my letter in
and started to come back. And it was still there.’

Greta’s words came faster and faster, and her cheeks got pinker and
pinker. She made Margaret look like a ghost.

‘Not very exciting so far,’ said Charles drily.

‘It’s going to be. You _wait_. When I got up to the car I did get a
fright. The chauffeur spoke to me. He had a sort of growly voice, and he
said, “Get in quick, miss.” And I said, “It’s not my car.” And he came
after me, and he said I must come quickly because Egbert wanted me to.’

‘Oh, Lord!’ said Charles to himself.

Freddy said, ‘Egbert?’ in a mild puzzled way.

‘Oh, I oughtn’t to have said that! But you won’t tell anyone—will you?
And Archie won’t. And I really didn’t mean to say his name,—but it’s so
frightfully difficult to remember all the things I mustn’t say. You’ll
be frightfully nice—won’t you, and forget about my saying Egbert—won’t
you?’

Freddy assured her that he had already forgotten.

‘The fellow spoke to you—dash his impudence! And then what happened?’

‘He said my cousin wanted me. It’ll be all right if I say my cousin,
won’t it? I needn’t say his name.’

‘What happened?’ asked Archie.

‘I simply ran, and I gave a sort of scream. And he said, “Don’t make a
noise.” And I made a louder scream and simply ran like anything. And he
caught my arm. Wasn’t it _frightful_? Only just then two cars came along
out of that little crescent, and that frightened him, and he let go, and
I never stopped running till I got home. Wasn’t it a _frightful_
adventure?’




                              Chapter XXIX


Dinner was over at last. Charles had never endured forty minutes more
crowded with indiscretions. He was reduced to a condition of exasperated
resignation. After all, neither Freddy nor Archie mattered; but unless
one locked the creature up, she would prattle in the same artless way to
anyone she met. He thought of uninhabited islands with yearning, and of
Margaret with rage. If it were not for Margaret he would not be mixed up
in this damned affair at all.

The girls went upstairs to put on their coats. Freddy fussed away to see
if the car had come round. Archie turned a reproachful eye on Charles.

‘Why teach an innocent child to practise concealments?’

Charles had no reply but a frown.

‘Why keep me out of it anyhow? Why pretend?’

‘What are you driving at?’

‘Well, she’s Margot Standing, isn’t she?’

‘You guessed when she said “Egbert”?’

‘I guessed the second time I saw her,’ said Archie. ‘She wants a whole
heap of practice before she can conceal anything. Does Freddy know?’

‘I expect he does by now. Egbert isn’t the sort of name most fellows
would be seen dead in a ditch with. Look here, Archie, I want to talk to
you. What about after the show? We can take the girls home, and then you
come round to “The Luxe” with me.’

Archie nodded, and Freddy came back into the room. Upstairs Greta
clutched Margaret by the arm.

‘He never showed us the miniature. Margaret, I _do_ want to see your
mother’s miniature so badly.’

‘Why should you want to see it?’ Her tone said plainly, ‘It has nothing
to do with you.’

‘I want to see it _frightfully_. When I saw Esther Brandon written on
that bit of paper, it gave me a most frightfully excited sort of
feeling. I simply _must_ see her miniature. Where is it? Can’t you show
it to me?’

‘It’s in Freddy’s study,’ said Margaret in a slow, flat voice.

‘Show it to me quickly! Oh, do put on your coat and come and show it to
me!’

She fairly danced down the stairs, looking back over her shoulder and
urging Margaret to hurry.

The study was one of those built-out rooms half-way down the stair—a
fussy, untidy place full of photographs, pipes, guns, fishing-rods,
stamp-albums, old bound magazines, and a chaotic muddle of letters and
bills.

‘Freddy’s hopeless,’ said Margaret.

‘Where’s the miniature?’

‘On his writing-table.’ She moved _The Times_ and two picture papers as
she spoke. Under the papers was a tall old-fashioned miniature case. It
had folding doors that could be locked. The doors were shut.

‘Oh!’ said Greta. She caught at the table and leaned on it. ‘Oh, it’s
Papa’s! Oh, Margaret, it’s Papa’s!’

Margaret just stood and looked at it.

‘Margaret, it is Papa’s! Oh, do open it!’

‘What are you talking about?’ said Margaret very slowly.

‘Papa had a case just like this. It stood on his table. I told Mr Hale
about it. I only saw inside it once—just a peep. Oh, Margaret, do open
it—_do_!’

Margaret put her hand on the case.

‘It’s locked, Greta.’

‘Get him to open it. Oh, I _do_ want to see what’s inside!’

‘I can’t do that.’

‘Papa’s had diamonds all round it. Has this one got diamonds all round
it?’

‘No, it’s quite plain—just a picture of my mother in a white dress.’

‘My mother had a white dress too. It must have been my mother. Don’t you
think so? There were diamonds all round. They sparkled like anything.’

‘Greta! Margaret! Hurry up!’ Freddy was fussing in the hall; his voice
sounded querulous.

Greta gave a little shriek of dismay:

‘Oh, we’ll be late! We mustn’t be late! We’re coming,’ she cried, and
ran out of the room.

For a moment Margaret stayed behind. She put both hands on the case and
opened the little doors. The case opened quite easily. Esther Brandon
looked out at her. She wore a white dress. She smiled serenely. The
world was at her feet.

Margaret shut the case and went slowly out of the room.

The show was a great success as far as Greta and Freddy were concerned.
There was singing, there was dancing; there were coloured lights and
gorgeous scenes quite unlike anything except a stage land of dreams.

Greta was in the seventh heaven. She sat between Freddy and Archie, and
at intervals she murmured, ‘How _frightfully_ clever! How _frightfully_
sweet!’ and ‘Oh, isn’t he _wonderful_?’

Archie’s comment, ‘Revoltin’ fellow’, was received with intense
disfavour.

‘He’s lovely! His eyelashes are longer than Charles’s. I think he’s
simply _sweet_.’

This was in the interval.

Archie made a face and hummed just under his breath.

         ‘Oh, you do need
         Someone to watch over you—misquotation from _Oh Kay_.’

‘You’ve got it all wrong. It says,

                     ‘ “Oh, I do _need_
                     Someone to watch over _me_.” ’

‘That’s what I said. Or, in the plain words of everyday life, you want
someone to look after you.’

‘I _don’t_! I can look after myself. I’m eighteen, and I was leaving
school at Christmas anyhow. Of course you’re older than me. But I’m
grown up, and that’s what matters. How old are you, Archie? Are you
frightfully old?’

‘Frightfully. Poor old Charles and I are just hangin’ on.’

‘How old _are_ you?’

‘Twenty-seven,’ said Archie. ‘But Charles was twenty-eight a week ago,
so I’m one up on him.’

‘It must be simply frightful to be twenty-eight,’ said Greta with
conviction. She snuggled up to Archie and whispered, ‘Is Margaret
awfully old too?’

‘Ssh! She’s twenty-four. Pretty bad—isn’t it?’

Greta considered.

‘I shall be married years and years before I’m twenty-four. It’s
_rather_ old, but I do love Margaret all the same.’

When the curtain had fallen for the last time, they came out into a
windy night. It had been raining; the pavements were wet, and the wind
was wet.

Freddy shepherded his party briskly.

‘We’ll just go along to the corner and cross over. Archie can get us a
taxi quite easily there. Much better than waiting in this crush. Rather
nice to get a breath of air—what? Lucky it’s not raining—isn’t it? Now
I remember once—’ he addressed himself to Greta; fragments of the
anecdote that followed reached Charles as he walked a yard ahead... ‘and
I said I’d give her a lift because it was so wet ... too bad, wasn’t
it?... me, of all people in the world ... and I think her name was
Gwendolen Jones, but I can’t be sure...’

They crossed to an island in the middle of the road. Archie made a rapid
dash and got to the farther side. Freddy was fussing over Margaret and
Greta.

‘Now, my dear, take my arm. Margaret, perhaps you’d better take
Charles’s arm.’

Charles heard Margaret say, ‘I don’t want anyone’s arm,’ and at the same
moment the people on the island began to flow across. He saw Margaret
and Greta together, Freddy next Margaret; and then, when he was half-way
over, he heard Greta scream. He turned. It was a scream of sharp and
anguished fear. He looked, and could see only a crowd and a confusion.
There was a bus standing still.

He pushed through, and saw Greta just not under the bus. She was lying
as she had fallen, her hands spread out, her fair hair splashed with
mud, her face splashed with mud. Freddy and the bus-conductor were
picking her up, and as Charles arrived she was beginning to cry. He
looked round for Margaret, and saw her standing straight and still. The
light from the arc-lamp was on her face.

Charles felt his heart turn over. The whole thing had happened in a
moment, and in a moment it was past. The driver of the bus was saying
loudly and dogmatically, ‘She ain’t hurt, I tell you. She ain’t touched
I tell you’; and this was mixed with Greta’s sobs and Freddy’s ‘Very
careless—very careless indeed! The young lady might have been killed.’

Charles said, ‘What happened?’ and the sound of his own voice startled
him. It seemed to startle Greta too. She gave a much louder sob and
flung both arms round his neck with a wail of ‘Take me home! Oh,
Charles, please take me home!’

It was at this moment that the policeman arrived.

Freddy was in his element at once.

‘Most unfortunate, constable—the young lady might have been killed. We
were all going across together, my daughter and this young lady and I,
and she slipped—Didn’t you, my dear? Dear me, we ought to be very
thankful she isn’t hurt. She slipped and fell right in front of the bus.
Now, my dear, you’re quite safe. No—don’t cry. You’re not hurt, are
you?’

‘She wasn’t touched,’ said the driver of the bus in the same loud
aggressive voice.

‘Are you hurt, Miss?’ inquired the policeman.

Charles had removed Greta’s arms from about his neck, but she still
clung to his shoulder. In spite of the splashes of mud on her face she
managed to look pretty and appealing.

‘I might have been killed,’ she said.

‘Are you hurt, Miss?’

‘I might have been killed,’ said Greta with a sob. ‘Someone pushed me,
and I fell right under that horrible bus.’

‘Any injuries Miss?’

‘No—no,’ said Greta. She gazed down at the drabbled white skirt which
her open coat disclosed. ‘Oh, my frock’s spoilt!’

It was like a nightmare. When Archie came up with a taxi, Charles felt
as if the whole thing had been going on for years and would continue to
go on for ever. The interested crowd; the voice of the bus driver;
Greta’s hysterical sobbing; and the policeman writing things down in a
notebook. Just outside all this, Margaret standing under the arc-light.
She had not spoken a word or moved to come to Greta.

Charles touched her on the arm.

‘Come along—we want to get out of this. Freddy says he’ll walk, and
Archie’s going the other way. I’ll take you home.’

When he had put the girls into the taxi, Charles spoke for a moment to
Archie Millar:

‘I’ll fix up a talk some other time—tonight won’t do.’

It was only afterwards he thought it strange that Archie turned away
without so much as a word.




                              Chapter XXX


Greta talked the whole way home:

‘Wasn’t it a frightful thing to happen? Didn’t I have a most frightfully
narrow escape?’

‘How did it happen?’ said Charles.

‘Margaret and I were going across, and Freddy was going with us, and I
heard the bus coming and I said, “Oh!” And Margaret said “Don’t be
silly”, and I started to run. And someone pushed me frightfully hard,
and I fell right under the bus.’

She held Charles tightly by the hand; her fingers were warm and
clinging. She went on talking:

‘I always did hate crossings, but now I shall hate them more than ever.
Charles, it was frightful. Someone pushed me right under the bus.’

‘You must have slipped,’ said Charles.

He tried to draw his hand away, but she held it tight.

‘No, I didn’t—not till I was pushed. I was just beginning to run, and
someone pushed me hard.’

‘Someone knocked against you in the crowd.’

‘They knocked me right down,’ said Greta indignantly. ‘And I’ve got mud
all over my face, and Margaret’s white dress that she lent me is simply
ruined. Margaret, your white frock is quite spoilt. Isn’t it a pity? But
it’s not my fault—is it?’

She talked so much she did not even notice that Margaret did not speak
at all. It was Charles for whom this silence came to be one of those
unbearable things which have to be borne.

Greta exclaimed with pleasure when, having paid the taxi, he came
upstairs with them. Her fright was wearing off; she was now merely
excited and pleased at having Charles to talk to. She was not at all
pleased, however, at being told to go to bed.

‘I don’t want to. I want to sit up and talk—oh, for hours. Margaret,
can’t we make coffee and have supper, just you and Charles and me? I’m
frightfully hungry.’

Margaret was standing over the dead fire. She spoke now without turning
round. Her voice sounded as if her lips were dry.

‘There isn’t any coffee. You’d better go to bed.’

‘Oh!’ said Greta in a disappointed tone.

Charles put his hand on her shoulder and walked her to the door.

‘Run along—there’s a good child. Wash your face and go to bed. I want
to talk to Margaret.’

‘Oh!’ said Greta again. She pouted, looked at him through her eyelashes,
and then suddenly showed all her very pretty teeth in a yawn.

‘Off with you!’ said Charles, and shut the door.

He came back to the hearth, Margaret had not moved, and for a long heavy
minute Charles stood looking at her in silence. One arm lay on the
mantelpiece. Her head was bent; she was looking down at the ashes of the
fire. Her left hand hung straight at her side. The third finger would
not have held his emerald now; the hand was thinner, whiter than it had
been four years ago; it looked very white against the black dress.

Charles stood there. Three things said themselves over and over in his
mind: ‘A street accident would be the safest way’; ‘Someone pushed me’;
and, ‘All the perfumes of Arabia.’

He looked at Margaret’s hand—Margaret’s white hand, hanging there as if
all the life, all the strength had gone out of it.

‘Someone pushed me frightfully hard’; ‘A street accident would be the
safest plan’; ‘All the perfumes of Arabia cannot sweeten—’

Margaret lifted her head.

‘It is late,’ she said.

‘Yes.’

She looked like Margaret carved in stone; there seemed to be no colour,
no feeling, no emotion. She said, ‘Aren’t you going?’ and Charles shook
his head.

‘No—I want to talk to you.’

‘Yes, there was something I was going to say—but it’s so late.’

‘What were you going to say?’

She had not looked at him at all; she did not look at him now. He could
not see her eyes. She spoke in a dull voice:

‘When are you going to take her away?’

‘Do you mean Greta?’

‘I mean Margot Standing. When are you going to take her away? You had
better take her away quickly.’

At the first sound of her voice Charles became once more master of his
own thoughts. The obsession of those three terrible sentences was gone.
He said perhaps the last thing that she expected, and said it in quiet
everyday tones:

‘Why did you break off our engagement?’

She had been still before; but it seemed as if a hush came upon the
stillness like the glaze of ice upon still water. There was a pause, so
deep that very far off sounds came near and clamoured at Charles’s
ears—a footstep a long way down the street; a motor horn two roads
away; the sound of wet branches rubbing against each other from the tree
whose yellow leaves he had watched falling—he could almost have heard
them falling now.

Then Margaret said slowly.

‘Do you want me to tell you that?’

‘I think so—I think it would be better if you did.’

She moved her head a little. The movement said ‘No.’ Her voice came
faintly:

‘It won’t do any good.’

‘I want to know. I think you must tell me.’

‘Yes,’ said Margaret, ‘I must—now. But it won’t do any good. Nothing
will do any good. Only you must take her away. I can’t have her here.
You’ll take her away tomorrow—won’t you?’

Charles looked at her with a set face.

‘Tell me why you broke off our engagement.’

Just for a moment she stood where she was. Then she sat down in the
nearest chair. It was the armchair affected by Greta; a novel lay on the
floor beside it. Margaret sat down in the chair. She leaned forward, her
elbows on her knees, her face screened by her hands.

Charles remained standing.

‘Something happened to make you break your engagement. I want to know
what it was.’

‘Yes—something happened.’ She paused. ‘It’s very difficult to tell.’

‘Something happened after you got home from our dance that night, for
I’ll swear—’ He checked a rising note of passion, the memory of how
they had parted.

‘Some of it happened before. I didn’t know it was happening—I didn’t
know what did happen. It was that morning. I was in a hurry. I went into
the study for something. You know Freddy used to write there before
breakfast—those long letters he loved to send people. He always wrote
them in the study before breakfast. No one was allowed to disturb him.
It was a regular family joke. Well, I thought he must have finished, and
I went in. He was standing on the other side of the room with his back
to me, and—Charles, there was a hole in the wall.’

‘What!’

‘It was a safe. You know, lots of people have them; only I didn’t know
there was such a thing in the house. He had taken down a picture that
covered it. And he was rustling some papers, so he didn’t hear me come
in. I came right up to the table. And he didn’t hear me, so I stood
there and waited for him to turn round. I wanted to ask him something—I
forget what it was. I waited. I was rather curious too. There was a
letter lying on the table—it caught my eye. You know, one wouldn’t ever
think of _Freddy’s_ letters being private—he used to pass them round. I
noticed this one because it was written on such funny paper, like
wrapping paper. I only saw one sentence, and I thought I had better not
go on looking at it, so I moved back. And just then Freddy turned round.
He was awfully startled. He thought he had locked the door, and he kept
on saying how careless he was, and that it might have been one of the
maids, and what was the good of a secret safe if everyone knew where it
was? And he said would I promise not to tell anyone? And then I went
away. I think perhaps he’d forgotten I was going to be out all day,
because he said afterwards he tried to find me—I _was_ out, you know,
all day.’

Charles knew. They were together on the river—a cloudless day that
neither of them guessed was to be their last.

Margaret went on. The words were coming more easily now. It was as if
some frightful pressure of silence was at last finding relief.

‘I only just had time to dress. Freddy seemed quite pleased all the
evening. But when we got home, he let Mother go upstairs and he said he
wanted to speak to me. I went into the study with him, and he began to
cry. It—it was dreadful. I’d never seen him anything but cheerful
before. I’d never seen a man cry. He sat down at the table and put his
head in his hands and burst out crying.’

She made a little pause; but Charles did not speak. She drew in her
breath with a shiver and went on:

‘It was about my mother. He told me she was very ill. He said she did
not know it herself. He said if she had any trouble or anxiety, it would
kill her. And then he put his head in his hands and groaned and said he
was her murderer.’ Again the pause, the shivering breath. ‘I couldn’t
understand what he meant. And all of a sudden he began to talk about my
coming into the study that morning. He asked me if I had noticed a
letter lying on the table. I had almost forgotten all about it. He kept
on asking whether I had read any of it, and how much I had read. And I
told him I had only seen one sentence and a name. And I asked him if it
was the name of a racehorse.’ Her voice sank and ceased.

Charles stood dark and frowning above her. He spoke now, sharply.

‘What did you see?’

Without looking at him and without answering, she took her hands from
her face and spread them to the cold unlighted fire.

Charles repeated his question:

‘What did you see?’

‘I can’t tell you—I mustn’t—I promised.’

‘What name did you see?’

‘I didn’t know it was a name—I didn’t know what it was.’

‘You saw a name. What was it?’

‘Grey Mask,’ said Margaret in a whisper.

After a moment Charles said, ‘Go on.’

‘He was dreadfully upset. He cried. After a bit he told me that when he
was a boy he had got mixed up in a secret society. You know he lived
abroad with his mother and never went to school or college. He said he
got into bad company.’ For the first time she looked at Charles. It was
a look of appeal—for Freddy, not for herself. ‘You can imagine how it
happened—you can imagine what Freddy was like as a boy.’

Charles had nothing sympathetic to say about Freddy. He said nothing.

‘He joined this secret society. He didn’t tell me what it was for. He
said it was political; but he said everyone who joined it signed a
statement that implicated them in something they could be sent to prison
for—they had to take an oath, and they had to sign a statement that
they had committed some crime. It was all very carefully worked out. The
things were things they could have done. It was to make it quite safe
for the society. Freddy said he joined it when he was only
seventeen—you know how a boy of that age will join anything that’s
exciting. Well, he said after a few years he came over here, and he
forgot all about it. And then he came into money, and they began to
bother him. And he said he was in love with my mother, and he did
foolish things to keep them quiet, so that they got a fresh hold on him.
It was idiotic of him, but I don’t suppose Freddy could help it—I mean
he’s like that. Then after he married Mother it got worse. I don’t know
what they made him do—things he hated, and things that frightened him.
He’d had a rotten time, he said.’

‘Why did he tell you all this?’

‘Because I had read that bit of the letter. He said they knew.’

‘How could they know?’

Margaret looked up and then down again. Charles’s face was like a flint,
all the features sharpened, the brows a black line.

‘I’m afraid Freddy must have told them.’

‘Go on,’ said Charles in an expressionless voice.

Margaret hurried a little.

‘He was afraid of them. He had been afraid of them for so many years he
did not seem to have any will of his own. He told me the only thing I
could do was to join them.’

‘So you joined them.’ His tone was quite polite and casual. It touched
some secret spring of pride in Margaret; for the first time a little
warmth came over her, a spark of the old fire showed in her eyes.

‘I said what you would have said—what anyone would have said. I told
him to be a man and stick it out. And he said it would kill Mother. I
think we talked nearly all night. He told me some things I can’t tell
you. They could have sent him to prison—he said they would if I refused
to join. And he said it would kill Mother.’ Margaret lifted her eyes to
that hard face above her. They were very desolate, very tired; but the
fire still burned. ‘It would have killed her—you won’t deny that—it
would certainly have killed her.’

Charles did not speak.

‘In the end I gave way. Freddy said it would be a form, just to make
them feel safe. He had the statement all ready for me to sign.’ Her lip
lifted for an instant in the ghost of a smile. ‘I signed the statement,
but I would not take any oath. I told Freddy it was no good—I wouldn’t
do it; but if they would be satisfied with knowing they could ruin me if
I talked, I’d give them that. I think I confessed to pilfering jewellery
when I went out to dances. There were some of my friends’ names in the
statement. It was frightfully cleverly done—the things really had been
lost, and I could very easily have taken them. That frightened me
afterwards, because I saw how clever they were. I saw how difficult it
was for Freddy.’ She stopped. There was a dead silence. When it had
lasted an unbearable time, Charles said, still in that easy voice:

‘Aren’t you going on?’

Margaret started a little. The cold and the silence had closed in upon
her.

‘There isn’t anything more.’

‘I should have thought there was.’

‘I’ve told you.’ Her voice was very tired.

‘You haven’t told me why you broke off our engagement.’

‘How could I go on with it?’

‘I’m afraid I don’t quite understand.’

‘How could I? I’d got into this awful tangle. I couldn’t let Freddy
down. Even if I’d refused to join, it would have come to the same in the
end for—for us—if there had been a scandal, if Freddy—I couldn’t have
married you—could I? I couldn’t have dragged you into it. I couldn’t
marry you when I knew there might be some awful smash one day. I looked
every way, and there wasn’t any way out.’ Her voice trembled into
passion. ‘Do you think I wouldn’t have found a way out if there had been
one to find? There wasn’t any way out. There wasn’t anything I could do
to save—us.’ The last words faltered.

Margaret bent her head upon her hands. She was colder than she had ever
been in her life. If only Charles would not hate her so! Nothing hurt
her any more—she was too cold for that; but all the strength went out
of her before this implacable resentment, and though everything in her
failed, she had still to go on to the end. If he would understand a
little and forgive! He did not love her any more; he was falling in love
with Margot Standing. Why need he go on hating her so much?

‘Thank you. It comes to this—you sacrificed yourself—me—everything,
because Freddy had played the fool.’ His tone was coldly amused.

Margaret did not answer. ‘I must confess I thought I’d been cut out by
something a little more romantic than Freddy.’ He paused, laughed, and
repeated, ‘Freddy! Good Lord! _Freddy!_’ Then, quite suddenly a violent
passion came into his voice. ‘By heaven! I’ll never forgive you!’ he
said, and went out of the room and out of the flat.




                              Chapter XXXI


At eight o’clock next morning Charles Moray, calm and cheerful, rang the
bell of the flat. It may be said that he was the last person in the
world whom Margaret expected to see. He greeted her without any sign of
embarrassment.

‘Morning, Margaret—thought I’d catch you before you went off. I suppose
Greta isn’t up. You might just tell her to hurry and pack anything she’s
got—no, she hasn’t got anything—has she? But perhaps you won’t mind
lending her what she wants for a day or two.’

‘You’re taking her away?’

It was dark in the tiny passage. The early morning cold chilled
everything. He could not see her face; she was just a black shadow. A
chink of light showed through the unfastened sitting-room door.

‘Yes—I thought I’d better let you know before you went off.’

‘Where are you taking her?’

‘D’you know, I hadn’t thought of telling you that,’ said Charles. He
spoke with the extreme of deliberate cruelty. He had one thought
only—to strike hard, to strike deep, to break her pride.

Margaret had no pride left to break; it was all broken, and her heart
too. She made no answer, only turned and went away from him into the
sitting-room.

He came in after her and shut the door. His manner changed.

‘Will you tell me that it is safe for you to know where she is? Will you
tell me that? Is it safe?’

Margaret faced him, and faced the light. She could do that.

Words that he had not planned rushed to Charles’s lips:

‘Who pushed her yesterday? She said she was pushed. You heard her. I
want to know who pushed her.’

A curious faint tremor touched Margaret. It made a change in the pale
set of her mouth; it altered her. It was as if something horrible had
touched her for an instant.

‘Who pushed her?’ said Charles in a low, hard voice.

The tremor came again. This time the horror was in her eyes.

‘It wasn’t—no—Charles—no!’

‘What are you saying?’

‘He was the other side of me,’ said Margaret in a shaken whisper.

‘I didn’t mean Freddy,’ said Charles. Then, as he said the name, he
almost laughed, ‘_Freddy!_’

‘Who did you mean? Charles—it was an accident. You don’t think it was
anything else?’

‘It would have been a very convenient accident. I’m going to tell you
something. Perhaps you know it already. I told you once before that I
watched a meeting of this society of yours. I heard them speaking about
Margot. Grey Mask said that if a certain certificate were found, she
would have to be removed. He said a street accident would be the safest
way. Last night Greta—Margot—babbled at dinner about having found a
certificate. Less than three hours later the street accident happened.
It didn’t quite come off—I don’t know why.’

‘Ask her why.’

‘No—I’ll ask you—you must have seen what happened.’

‘She slipped.’

‘Why did she slip?’

The horror touched her eyes again.

‘I don’t know. Charles—I _don’t_ know.’

‘I do. She slipped because she was made to slip, because she was pushed.
I want to know who pushed her.’

She met his eyes.

‘Did you think I knew?’

Charles did know what he had thought. He had endured a horrible
nightmare in which anything was possible, an hour in which everything
had gone adrift in a mad storm of evil. He was not sure of what he had
thought in that hour. He looked at Margaret, and woke up.

The relief was so overwhelming that it carried him away. He did not know
that his face was changed. But his mood had changed so much that he did
not care where it was taking him. He said,

‘You didn’t see anything then?’ And as Margaret shook her head, he went
on, his voice fallen to a tone of confidence. ‘You see what it
means—they know where she is—they know where to find her. Look at the
attempt to get her away last night. And then this accident. You see what
it means?’

The change was so sudden that it came near to breaking Margaret’s
self-control. He did not wait for an answer. He was the old Charles
asking for her help.

‘We’ve got to put a stop to it. It can’t go on. Can’t you help me? If
you’d just tell me the whole thing.’

‘But I have.’

‘You said you joined. What happened after that? Did you meet any of
these people? Did you do anything? Did they make you do anything?’

‘I went two or three times to meetings.’

‘What happened?’

‘Nothing. The first time I just went. There were two men in the room.
They both wore masks. They gave me a number—twenty-six—and I came
away. I went again about a year later. They asked me to sign another
statement. I said I wouldn’t at first; but in the end I did.’

‘Did Freddy go with you?’

‘No, I went alone. The last time was the time you saw me. Freddy was
ill. He said there was a meeting, and he gave me some papers to take. I
gave them to Grey Mask and came away.’

‘He spoke to you.’

‘He asked if Freddy was really ill. He didn’t use his name, you
know—only a number.’

‘The other man’—Charles spoke eagerly—‘the one at the table? He had
his back to me, but you must have seen his face.’

‘No—he had a mask. I never saw anyone’s face—only masks.’

He made an exclamation of disappointment.

‘Well, you see I must get her away. I knocked Archie up after I left
here last night, and he says he’ll take her along to his cousin,
Ernestine Foster. He says she’ll take her in all right. Of course she
won’t know who she is.’

‘Until Greta gives herself away.’

‘Greta must be told not to give herself away.’

Margaret’s eyebrows went up.

‘I know,’ said Charles. ‘But I shall put it across her. She’s not to
mention Egbert, or poor Papa, or that blighted school of hers.’

Greta put her head round the door and uttered a cry of rapture.

‘Oh, Charles! How lovely! Have you come to take me out? Is it fine?
Where are we going? I want to drive the whole way today. But you’ll have
to wait—I’m not dressed.’

‘So I see.’

Greta came farther into the room. She wore a pale blue kimono; her feet
were bare.

‘This is Margaret’s dressing-gown. Isn’t it pretty? It’s one she had
ages ago in her trousseau—Isn’t it, Margaret? She wouldn’t quite say it
was; but I’m sure it was really, and she didn’t say “No”. Of course the
colours were brighter before it was washed. I’m going to have one just
like it.’

‘Go and dress, baby,’ said Margaret. ‘Charles has come to take you
away.’

Charles found the light words tragic. The tragedy was in Margaret’s
voice and eyes.

Greta gave a little scream.

‘Where are we going, Charles? Where are you going to take me? Are you
going to take me right away?’

She held his arm, tugging at it as a child might have done.

‘I’m not going to take you like that. Go and dress. You’re going to stay
with a cousin of Archie’s for a bit.’

‘How frightfully exciting! But I don’t want to go away from Margaret.
Won’t she have me any longer?’

She left Charles and flung her arms round Margaret.

‘I don’t want to go away. Even if it’s a little bit dull all the time
you’re out, I’d rather stay here—I would really. Why are you sending me
away? Are you angry?’

Margaret shook her head. Just for a moment she could not speak.

‘Charles, ask her to let me stay!’ The bare arms were round Margaret’s
neck. ‘Margaret, I do love you! And you saved my life
yesterday—Charles, she really did. So she ought to keep me. I should
have been right _under_ that horrible bus if she hadn’t simply clutched
me.’

‘What?’

‘She clutched me and pulled me back. I told you someone pushed me. And
if Margaret hadn’t grabbed me, I should have gone right under the bus—I
know I should.’

Charles did not look at Margaret. He experienced some tumultuous
emotions. He heard Margaret say, ‘I must go, or I shall be late. Greta,
go and dress.’

‘You haven’t had any breakfast, Margaret.’

‘I can’t stop.’

‘Oh—’ said Greta.

Margaret had detached herself and was at the door.

‘Go and dress,’ she said, and went out.




                             Chapter XXXII


The sun came out later on; the October air glowed in an enchanting
mixture of warmth and freshness. It was strange to see the trees hung
with yellow instead of green.

Margaret had a busy morning. Women buy new hats when the sun shines. A
stout lady with red hair bought six hats one after the other. She did
not try them on—that was Margaret’s business; she had to present Mrs
Collinson Jones with a pleasing picture of the hat she meant to buy. If
it looked well on Margaret, she bought it with a magnificent disregard
of her own contours and complexion. All the hats were very expensive.

When Mrs Collinson Jones had departed, Margaret had a helpless bride and
her still more helpless mother on her hands. Neither Mrs Kennett or Miss
Rosabel Kennett had the very slightest idea what they wanted. They were
both pretty, fair, fluffy, and ineffective. Rosabel tried on eighteen
hats, and Mrs Kennett always murmured ‘_Sweet!_’ But in the end she and
her daughter departed without having made a purchase.

The Kennetts were succeeded by Miss Canterbury, who wanted something
which neither Sauterelle nor any other modern shop was likely to have.

‘I don’t care about these hats that hide the ears—they swallow you up
so. I remember a most charming hat I had before the war, trimmed with
shaded tulle and ostrich feathers. I wore it to the Deanery
garden-party, and it was _much_ admired.’

Margaret tried to picture the tiny bent creature in a cart-wheel hat
weighed down with trimming. She offered a neat small velvet shape.

‘Would madam care to try this?’

‘Feathers,’ said Miss Canterbury peevishly.

‘If madam liked, she could have a feather mount at the side.’

Miss Canterbury waved the shape away.

‘Too small—too trivial. No, that one’s too large for me. No, I don’t
care for velvet. The hat I was telling you about was made of the most
charming crinoline straw, and the tulle was put on in big bows under the
ostrich feathers—a most charming effect.’

‘Perhaps we could make you a hat, madam?’

‘No—I shouldn’t care for that. It’s really very disappointing not to be
able to get an ordinary black hat with feathers in Sloane Street.’

After Miss Canterbury, a charming round-about little lady with plump
rosy cheeks and crisp grey hair.

‘Can you match this in a velour?’

Margaret took the scrap of crimson velvet ribbon. ‘I’m not sure, madam.
I’ll show you what we have.’

As she crossed the room, one of the other girls spoke to her.

‘Miss Langton, there are some new velours just come in.’

She came back to the little plump lady, and found herself scrutinized.
The red hat was tried on; but the little lady’s attention seemed to
wander.

‘Very nice—yes, very nice indeed. Yes, I’ll take it. Did I hear someone
call you Miss Langton just now?’

Margaret smiled and said, ‘Yes.’

The little lady hesitated and dropped her voice.

‘Is your name Margaret? No, it can’t be. But the name—and I thought I
saw a likeness—I used to know—’

‘My name _is_ Margaret Langton.’

‘Not Esther Langton’s daughter! Oh, my dear, I’m so pleased to meet you.
Your mother was a very great friend about a hundred years ago when we
were all very young and foolish—oh yes, a very great friend. Only you
won’t ever have heard of me, I expect. My name is Mrs Ravenna, but I
used to be Lesbia Boyne.’

Margaret was so much startled that for a moment she wasn’t in Sloane
Street at all. The hats, the showroom, weren’t there any more. She was
standing at the door of another room, a very long-ago room indeed. Her
mother was there, and a little lady in a lilac dress. Her mother said,
‘Lesbia—the child!’

She shut her eyes for a moment, and opened them to see Mrs Ravenna
looking at her with an air of concern; she held her head a little on one
side, and had the air of a plump, kind bird.

‘I startled you—I’m afraid I startled you.’

‘A little,’ said Margaret—‘just a little—because I have heard of
you—my mother spoke of you—when I was a child.’

‘Not since then? Now that’s too bad! But we must make up for lost time.
I’d like to have you come and lunch with me, right away if you can. Can
you manage it? You’re not engaged?’

Margaret shook her head.

‘Then I’ll go and speak to Madam. Just you wait.’

She went off smiling, and in a minute was back again.

‘I’ve made love to her very successfully. I told her it was a very
romantic meeting, and she says you may take an extra half-hour. So we
can have a real, good talk. We’ll come along to my hotel. I’m at The
Luxe.’

Mrs Ravenna was very comfortably installed at The Luxe, with a private
sitting-room.

‘My dear, you look starving,’ she said to Margaret. ‘Now tell me, are
you working too hard? Is that it? Serving tiresome women with hats they
don’t really want? I’m one of them, and my conscience pinches me. You’ve
no business to look so pale. I remember a little girl with a very nice
bright colour.’

‘I was late, and I hadn’t really time for my breakfast,’ said Margaret.

Mrs Ravenna was most dreadfully shocked.

‘You lean right back and close your eyes, and don’t you say a single
word till you’ve had some soup. You look positively frozen.’

The soup was deliciously hot. When Margaret had drunk it and was eating
fish which tasted like some pleasantly new variety, Mrs Ravenna removed
the embargo on conversation.

‘That’s better! I couldn’t talk to someone that I was expecting to faint
all the time.’

Margaret laughed.

‘I never faint.’

‘I should faint in a minute if I didn’t have my breakfast. It would be
very good for my figure, but I couldn’t do it—I don’t bother about it
any more. If I bothered, I shouldn’t be so plump. But I can’t do with
being bothered—it’s so worrying. And I’d rather be plump than have my
face all over lines. Why, I know women that spend every morning in a
beauty parlour, and they’ve got twice as many lines as I have. Of course
it’s lovely if you can have it both ways—no lines and a willowy figure.
But that’s only for the very, very few. Now your mother—’

Margaret laid down her fork.

‘Yes, do tell me about my mother.’

‘Oh, she was looking very well. Of course I only saw her for a moment.

‘Mrs Ravenna!’

‘Yes?’ The little lady put her head on one side.

‘Please—what did you say?’

‘I said that Esther was looking very well—and so she was. My dear,
what’s the matter?’

‘You haven’t heard—’ Margaret had to force her voice.

Mrs Ravenna was plainly startled.

‘What! You don’t _mean_! Oh, my dear girl! _When?_’

‘Six months ago.’

Mrs Ravenna sat up straight.

‘Margaret Langton, you’re not telling me your mother died six months
ago?’

Margaret said, ‘Yes’.

‘Your mother—Esther Langton—Esther Pelham?’

‘Yes.’

‘But I saw her.’

‘Where did you see her?’

‘It was only for a minute, but I made sure. My dear, you don’t know how
you’ve shocked me. I did see her.’

Margaret held the arms of her chair.

‘Mrs Ravenna—won’t you tell me—what you mean?’

‘I thought I saw her—and you tell me—six months ago? Impossible! Oh, I
can’t believe it! She looked so well.’

Margaret shut her eyes for a moment. The room was turning round. Mrs
Ravenna’s voice came from a long way off.

‘My dear, how cruel of me! But I didn’t know. I certainly thought I saw
her.’

She opened her eyes.

‘My mother died six months ago in Hungary. They were travelling—for her
health—and she died.’ Margaret’s voice was slow and low.

Mrs Ravenna gave a little sharp cry.

‘Six months ago? But I saw her! My dear, I saw her, only a fortnight ago
in Vienna.’

‘I—Mrs Ravenna!’

‘My dear, I _thought_ I saw her.’

‘Did you speak to her?’

‘I hadn’t a chance. I was ever so vexed. You can’t think how vexed I
was. My train was just starting. I was leaning out of the window waving
goodbye to the friend I’d been staying with, and I saw Esther in the
crowd.’

Her grief closed down on Margaret’s heart.

‘It was a mistake.’

‘I suppose it must have been. But, my dear—such a resemblance. She was
standing looking up with the light shining on her. I thought how little
she had changed. I waved to her, and I called out, and I thought she
recognized me.’

Margaret made a little sound of protest.

‘It was a mistake.’

‘I thought she recognized me. You know how a person looks when they know
you—she looked like that. And then I was ever so disappointed because
she didn’t wave to me or anything—she just turned and walked away. I
was ever so disappointed.’

‘It was somebody else,’ said Margaret, with sad finality.




                             Chapter XXXIII


Charles did his duty by Miss Greta Wilson for a couple of hours. He let
her drive and entertained her to the best of his ability. She talked
continuously.

‘Margaret was rather odd this morning. Charles, didn’t you think
Margaret was rather odd this morning? I did. Do you think she was angry
because of my going away?’

‘I think she’ll be able to bear up without you.’

‘What a frightfully horrid thing to say! I don’t like you a bit when you
say things like that. Archie never says things like that.’ She giggled
and swerved dangerously right across the road. ‘Charles, why does it do
that?’

Charles kept a steadying hand on the wheel.

‘Keep your eye on the road,’ he said sternly.

‘I only looked at you,’ said Greta in an injured voice. ‘Archie likes to
have me look at him. Yesterday, when I looked at him, he said I’d got
eyes like blue flowers—he did really.’

‘You weren’t driving a car. You keep your eye on the road.’

‘I am keeping it on the road. Archie likes me to look at him. He did say
that about my eyes. Are they like blue flowers, Charles?’

‘You keep ’em on the road,’ said Charles firmly.

Greta recurred to Margaret.

‘You didn’t answer about Margaret. Shall I like Archie’s cousin? Is she
like Archie? I don’t think Archie would make a pretty girl. Do you? Do
you think Margaret is pretty?’

‘No,’ said Charles.

He had often thought her beautiful.

‘You’ve known her a frightfully long time, haven’t you? You know, she
won’t tell me whether she was ever really engaged or not. But I think
she must have been. Don’t you? Of course I was only teasing her about
the blue dressing-gown. But I think she must have been engaged really,
and perhaps there’s some frightfully romantic reason why she isn’t
married. Sometimes I think it’s rather ordinary to get married, and that
it would really be more romantic to have a hopeless attachment. Perhaps
Margaret has got a frightfully romantic hopeless attachment. Do you
think she has?’

‘Among the Drastik Indians women who ask questions are buried alive,’
said Charles.

Greta gave a little shriek and did another swerve.

‘Charles, it did it again! _Why_ does it do it?’

‘Because you look round at me. I’m going to drive now, and then you can
look at me as much as you like.’

When he had handed her over to Ernestine Foster, he went rather
reluctantly to call on Miss Silver.

She was knitting an infant’s pale blue woolly coat. A white silk
handkerchief lay in her lap. When she saw Charles, she wrapped the pale
blue coat in the handkerchief and dropped it into her knitting-bag. She
said ‘Good morning,’ and then in the same breath,

‘I’m very glad you’ve come.’

Charles was wishing the interview well over; he was wishing he had never
come at all. Everytime it got more difficult to steer a course between
Greta’s safety and Margaret’s.

Miss Silver took a sheet of paper out of a drawer and handed it to
Charles.

‘I thought you might come in, so I prepared this for you. I should like
you to read it. It is a list of the cases in which I believe Grey Mask
to have had a hand. In the ones marked with an asterisk the evidence is
strong; in the others it is of a slighter nature; in the two last in the
list it really amounts to nothing more than suspicion. You may remember
some of the cases.’

Charles looked at the list. Miss Silver was right; he remembered some of
the cases. What he remembered about them appalled him. His brows drew
together as he read:

‘ “The Falny Case”—Good heavens! “The Martin Case”—Martin got twenty
years for that.’ The words came out just above his breath.

Miss Silver answered them.

‘Yes. But Grey Mask was behind him, and Grey Mask went scot free. I knew
Martin’s wife. She told me things—nothing, you understand, that could
have been used in evidence. You know what I mean, Mr Moray—“The little
more, and how much it is; the little less, and what worlds away.” ’

Charles went on looking at the list. Names—a date or two—an occasional
curt comment: ‘No arrest ever made’; ‘Smith arrested, but died before
trial’; ‘Jewels never traced.’ When he had read to the end, he gave the
paper back with a ‘thank you’.

Miss Silver locked it up again.

‘Do you feel quite comfortable about Miss Standing?’

‘No,’ said Charles.

‘She had a narrow escape last night, Mr Moray.’

Charles looked at her without speaking.

‘It is not at all prudent for her to go to the theatre or to appear in
public as she is doing.’

‘Do you suggest that I should lock her up?’

Miss Silver coughed. Charles leaned forward.

‘You speak of her having had a narrow escape. What do you mean?’

‘Well, Mr Moray, it was a narrow escape—wasn’t it?’

‘How do you know about it?’

‘I was following you.’

‘You saw it happen?’

‘Unfortunately, no. I saw Miss Standing and Miss Langton step off the
kerb, with Mr Pelham a little behind them on Miss Langton’s right. Then
two men passed in front of me. I heard Miss Standing scream, and then I
saw her lying on the ground. I waited until you took her away. What is
her account?’

‘She says that someone pushed her, and that Miss Langton saved her from
going under the bus.’

Miss Silver looked at him mildly.

‘Miss Langton saved her—she says that? Does she know who pushed her?’

‘No, she doesn’t. Miss Silver—the two men you spoke of—were they near
enough?’

‘I am not sure. I spoke to them afterwards, but they declared they had
not seen anything—they said they were talking. The policeman took down
their names and addresses. They were quite genuine—two young clerks in
a shipping office.’

‘Something else happened last night,’ said Charles. He gave Greta’s
account of the car that had followed her.

‘Was it the Daimler?’ said Miss Silver.

‘She doesn’t know a Daimler from a wheelbarrow,’ said Charles. ‘And she
can’t give any description of the chauffeur. The only thing she’s sure
about is that he said her cousin wanted her to come at once.’

Miss Silver frowned.

‘You are sure she said her cousin?’

‘Perfectly. Her cousin Egbert Standing. It’s the only thing she is sure
about. By the way, she has left Miss Langton and is now staying with Mrs
Foster, whom I think you know.’

Miss Silver did not reply. A small puzzled frown drew her brows
together.

‘What about Jaffray?’ said Charles. ‘Anything more?’

‘Jaffray has returned to his lodgings. I traced the car to a West End
garage, but it was taken out late yesterday afternoon.’

‘By Jaffray?’

‘No, not by Jaffray. It was not brought there by Jaffray either. The
same man brought it and took it away. The only thing the people at the
garage appear to have noticed about him was that he had red hair.’

‘Red hair?’

‘So they said. If it is the man I suspect, the red hair is merely
assumed. It makes a very good disguise, you know, just because everyone
notices it.’

‘Who do you think he is?’

‘I am not prepared to say. Your story doesn’t fit in. I must follow it a
little farther. You are quite sure Miss Standing said that it was her
cousin Egbert who tried to carry her off?’

‘She didn’t see him,’ said Charles; ‘she only saw the chauffeur.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘I think I had better see Miss Margot Standing,’ she said.




                             Chapter XXXIV


Mrs Ravenna drove Margaret back to Sauterelle’s.

‘I’m only in town for two days, and I simply must see you again. I kept
tonight for a cousin whom I haven’t seen for eighteen years; but she’s
wired to say she can’t leave her husband, so I’d like to have you come
instead if you will. Will you, my dear? If you don’t, I shall think
you’ve not forgiven me for having startled you with my stupid mistake.’

Margaret accepted. She had no wish to spend the evening alone hearing
the silence of her little room give up an echo of what Charles Moray had
said. She looked at the old green desk as she stood waiting for a minute
or two before walking to the corner to catch her bus. The room was
silent; she missed Greta’s chatter and Archie’s laugh. She looked at the
old green desk, and remembered the envelope that Greta had found. It was
in her mind that she would ask Mrs Ravenna about the words which she had
overheard as a child.

She waited until dinner was over and they were sitting on either side of
a pleasant blazing fire, with coffee set out on a small table between
them. She helped herself to candied sugar and said:

‘Mrs Ravenna—’

‘Yes, my dear? What is it?’

‘I remember something—I want to ask you about it—something that
happened when I was a child. I remember it quite clearly, just as if I
was seeing a picture. You and my mother were in a room together. My
mother had on a white dress—the sun shone across it—she had a bunch of
carnations here.’ Margaret’s hand went up to her breast. ‘She was
standing by the window, and you were sitting at a round table that had
books on it. You had a lilac dress. I was about six years old. And I
pushed open the door and saw you, and I heard my mother say, “It was
marriage by declaration”. And then she saw me and said, “Lesbia—the
child!” ’

Mrs Ravenna’s face showed the most lively interest.

‘Fancy your remembering that old lilac dress of mine! I must say it was
a very pretty one, and I always thought it suited me very well. But just
think of your remembering it! It’s all _I_ can do to remember dresses I
had eighteen years ago.’

‘Mrs Ravenna,’ said Margaret, ‘what did my mother mean?’

‘What did she say?’

‘She said, “It was marriage by declaration”. What did she mean?’

Mrs Ravenna put her head on one side.

‘Well, d’you know, Margaret, I’m not so very sure that I’ve any business
to tell you.’

‘Mrs Ravenna—if you _could_?’

Lesbia Ravenna hesitated. The hour, the firelight, the comfortable
after-dinner mood, all prompted her to an interesting indiscretion. On
the other hand she had held her tongue for eighteen years—yes, but all
the people concerned were dead—still, a promise is a promise—well, but
there wasn’t any actual promise, and it’s only to Esther’s own daughter.

‘Mrs Ravenna—can’t you tell me?’

‘I can. I’m just not very sure whether I ought to. I don’t see that I
should be doing any harm, but—’ She caught Margaret’s look. ‘Well, I
don’t see why I shouldn’t tell you after all these years, and when
they’re all dead—it’s not as if it can hurt anyone now. Of course I
don’t know how much you know already.’

‘I don’t know anything.’

Mrs Ravenna shot a quick bird-like glance at her. She did know
something, or why had she such an anxious look? She hadn’t her mother’s
bloom—she was far too worn for her age. But what a fine head!

‘Well, my dear,’ she said, ‘very few people knew anything. I’ve always
wondered how these things can be kept secret—but people manage it
somehow. It all happened in Edinburgh. I only knew Edward Standing very
slightly myself. He didn’t come to the house, you understand. Old Archie
Brandon wouldn’t have had him—he was just a bank clerk. It only shows
you never can tell—I see he died a millionaire. But nobody could have
dreamed of such a thing then. I met them together once, walking up and
down in the twilight, and she asked me not to mention it to her
uncle—he was rather a savage old man, and she had to do as she was
told.’

Margaret leaned forward; her hands clasped one another tightly; her
tragic apprehensive eyes were fixed on Lesbia Ravenna’s face.

‘Of course I didn’t know about the marriage at the time—you mustn’t
think that. Esther told me about it the following summer. It must have
been the day you remember. It’s funny your remembering what she said
about marriage by declaration. That’s just what she did say—she told me
there had been a marriage by declaration, and then a frightful quarrel.
I think he wanted her to come away and tell everyone, and she
wouldn’t—she wouldn’t face old Archie. And it came to a really terrible
quarrel between them. He was a hot-tempered young man, and he got it
into his head she was ashamed of him—ashamed of his position, you know.
And he went off in a rage, swearing she should never see him again until
he could offer her a position that she wouldn’t have any need to be
ashamed of. He sailed for New York in a tramp steamer, and it went down.
It was an awful shock of course; but after the first blow I think it was
a bit of a relief too. He dominated her a good deal. She wasn’t really
what I would call in love with him, and after the first shock wore off,
I do think it was a relief. And then—oh, my dear, you can guess what a
terrible thing it was when she found she was going to have a child. _Of
course_ the marriage ought to have been given out at once—I’ve always
said so—I said so to Esther the very first minute she told me about it,
but then, of course, it was too late. They should have given it out at
once—told the whole story from beginning to end. People would have been
sorry for her then. But, as I say, by the time Esther told me, it was
too late to do anything. The baby was born, somewhere over in France, I
believe, and put out to nurse. Don’t ask me how people contrive these
things—they do; and I’m sure I’ve often wondered how. The whole thing
was a senseless piece of mismanagement. She was frightened to death of
her uncle, and that was the beginning and the end of it. Well, about a
year later she got married. I don’t know how much she told him, or
whether she told him anything. She married him, and two years later
Edward Standing came back. Frightful—wasn’t it? Esther told me about
it. It was just before I went out to the States to be married. I thought
it all very shocking. But Edward Standing had his own violent temper to
blame for it. He’d let her think him dead on purpose—wanted to come
back with a flourish or never come back at all; and I suppose, like most
men, he thought everything was going to stand still whilst he was away.
Well, he came back, and he found her married to someone else. There must
have been a very dreadful scene. It ended in his giving her up. He cared
for her much more deeply and truly than anyone had given him credit for.
He went away, and I believe he took the little girl. She didn’t live
very long.’

Margaret spoke with dry lips:

‘She’s alive now.’

‘Oh no, my dear.’

‘She is.’

Mrs Ravenna stared.

‘Alive? My dear, she died—oh, quite sixteen years ago. Poor Margaret!’

‘Mrs Ravenna, _please_—who are you speaking of?’

‘Of Margaret.’

‘What Margaret?’

‘My dear, who could I be speaking of? Your mother’s sister, Margaret
Brandon. She married Herbert Faring. I suppose you hardly remember her?’

Margaret put out her hand. It was a purely instinctive movement.
Everything was slipping. Her hand went out into empty air and she slid
forward in a dead faint.

Ten minutes later Mrs Ravenna was still petting her, fussing over her,
and accusing herself of stupidity.

‘My dear, of course I never dreamt. It was too bad. But I had her so
much in my mind, and of course to you she was only a name.’

‘Not even that,’ said Margaret. ‘I suppose I knew that my mother had a
sister—yes, of course I did know that. But my mother never spoke of
her—never at all.’

‘She didn’t like Herbert Faring. She and Margaret never met except when
he was away. And after Margaret died—no, I suppose Esther wouldn’t
speak of her—she was like that.’

Margaret lay back amongst the soft cushions that had been piled behind
her. It was true. Esther Pelham had lived very fully and sufficiently in
the present; every day brought her so much that she had no time for the
past. Margaret Brandon had slipped away into the past and been lost
there.

After a silence she asked:

‘Was the marriage legal?’

‘The marriage with Edward Standing? Oh yes, my dear—that was the
trouble. They had made a declaration in writing, and he had it. If he
had chosen, he could have upset the marriage with Herbert Faring and
made a most frightful scandal. In the end he gave her the paper and
promised never to make any claim.’

Margaret sat up.

‘Nobody seems to have thought of the child,’ she said.




                              Chapter XXXV


Miss Silver called that evening at Mrs Foster’s.

She did not see Miss Greta Wilson, because Greta had gone out to dine
and dance with Archie Millar. Mrs Foster had, in fact, sent them out.

‘It’s no use, Archie. I’ve taken her in to please you, but I’m not going
to put my table out. It holds eight, and it won’t hold any more. So
you’ve just got to take her away and dance with her. She won’t mind.’

Greta was frankly delighted.

‘Does Charles dance as well as you do?’

‘Haven’t you danced with Charles?’ said Archie.

‘Not yet. Does he dance as well as you do?’

‘Oh, he couldn’t do that. I don’t want to shatter any of your young
illusions, you know; but after four years explorin’ in desert wastes I
shouldn’t wonder if poor old Charles wasn’t a bit of a back number.’

Greta gave a little shriek.

‘Oh! Archie! There’s Ambrose!’

‘Who’s Ambrose?’

‘There! He’s Ambrose Kimberley. He came to the flat one day when
Margaret was out. And I went for a walk with him, and Charles was in a
most frightful temper about it. I do think Charles has got a temper.
Don’t you? He was in a frightful temper about Ambrose. Oh, Archie, he’s
seen me! He waved his hand! Did you see? Don’t you call him frightfully
good looking?’

Archie eyed Mr Kimberley coldly.

‘He’s the brand they grow for the movies—good old Hollywood
vintage—full of bouquet—mellow on the palate—sweet as cream—flappers
like it.’

Greta giggled.

‘He’s got lovely eyelashes. Charles was frightfully cross because I told
him they were yards longer than his.’

‘Men don’t have eyelashes,’ said Archie sternly. ‘It’s not done.’

Charles, after dining alone, walked to Thornhill Square. He thought he
would like to have a talk with Mrs Lattery.

‘I think I shall be coming to live in the house next week,’ he began,
and had to endure Mrs Lattery’s very voluble plans for his
accommodation.

‘And I don’t know whether you’ll be wanting to entertain, sir.’

‘Probably,’ said Charles.

Mrs Lattery embarked on the question of the staff that would be
required.

‘My brother, sir, will be looking for a place. I don’t know whether you
would consider him. He’s been in very good places.’

‘As?’

‘As butler, sir—he’s been in very good places indeed, sir.’

Charles found himself a good deal interested in Mrs Lattery’s brother.
Pullen was the name—yes, Pullen.

‘He was with Lady Perringham, sir, and before that with Mr Mackay. He
has always given every satisfaction.’

‘And where is he now?’ said Charles.

‘He was in the service of the late Mr Standing, sir. But I hear the
house is to be closed, and my brother—Pullen’s the name, sir—he’ll be
looking for something else and I thought—’

‘Quite so,’ said Charles. He wondered whether William Cole, alias
Leonard Morrison, also wished to take service with him; and he wondered
what would happen if he were to engage these two interesting persons.

He left the house and betook himself to call on Margaret. It was by now
rather after half-past nine. He climbed the steep, narrow stair and
stood for a moment on the dimly lighted landing. He had come to see
Margaret, but having come, he was in two minds as to whether he would
not turn round and go away. He came slowly to the door of the flat and
stood hesitating. As she did so, he noticed that the door was not
fastened. He pushed it gently, and heard a faint click. Someone had just
put out the electric light.

Charles took one step across the passage and thrust open the
sitting-room door. The room was in darkness. He called ‘Margaret!’ and
felt for the switch. Someone charged him with a headlong rush that
carried him back through the door into the tiny passage. He fetched up
against the wall with a bang.

In the half-minute’s struggle that followed he had the man by the
throat, was violently kicked on the shins, lost his grip, had an
impression of a long, thin, twisting form, extraordinarily strong,
extraordinarily supple, and gripped a bony wrist, only to have it
wrenched away. The door of the flat slammed. Charles got it open and
pursued. The intruder was away before he reached the entrance. After
prospecting, Charles returned to the flat and put on the light.

The old green desk stood on the table. It had been turned inside out.
The drawers of the bureau were standing out upon the floor.

Charles whistled. He went over to the bedroom, knocked, and then in
sudden deadly fear, pushed in. The light showed him Margaret’s black day
dress lying across a chair. The room was empty. The little kitchen was
empty too. Margaret was clearly out.

Charles returned to the sitting-room and sat down to await her return.
He left the room in its disorder, and as he sat looking at his disorder
he thought very deeply.

Margaret—what a mess she had got herself into! That little ass Freddy!
If there _was_ a comic opera conspiracy knocking around, it was just
like Freddy to get mixed up in it—all very earnestly—very much _pour
le bon motif_. He could imagine Freddy full of bright and boring
enthusiasms, full to the brim of absurd zeal, and then suddenly
discovering that he’d got let in by a lot of crooks and being scared to
death. A well-meaning little fool if ever there was one. But
Margaret—what could one do about Margaret? That she should have been
dragged into the mess to save Freddy’s skin! She must be got out
again—that went without saying; and if Freddy had got her in, it was
for Freddy to get her out. Those statements she had signed must be got
back. By hook or crook Freddy must get them back. He couldn’t have been
mixed up with the Grey Mask lot for twenty-five years or so without
getting to know a bit. He probably knew where the papers were likely to
be; it was even barely possible that he had kept them himself. An early
interview with Freddy Pelham was certainly indicated.

Margaret came in at eleven.

‘Charles! What on earth?’

‘You’re not as surprised as I was when I got here and found a burglar in
possession.’

‘A burglar!’

‘Did you think I’d been going through your desk and bureau?’

Margaret gazed at the turned out drawers, the ransacked desk.

‘What did he come for?’ said Charles quickly. ‘What did he come for, and
what did he get away with?’

‘Oh!’ said Margaret. ‘Oh, I left it locked.’

‘The bureau?’

‘This drawer.’ She turned over the papers that lay in confusion.
‘Charles, it’s gone!’

‘What’s gone?’

‘The certificate. No, it wasn’t the certificate—it was only the
envelope. I forgot—you don’t know that Greta found it. Charles, do you
know who Greta’s mother was? She was my mother’s sister. She was
Margaret Brandon. The certificate was in my mother’s desk. Greta is my
cousin.’

‘You found the certificate?’

‘No—only the envelope, endorsed by Edward Standing. The marriage was
secret—a Scotch marriage by declaration. I’ve just been hearing the
whole story from my mother’s oldest friend.’ She told him what Lesbia
Ravenna had told her. ‘I don’t know how the envelope came to be in my
mother’s desk.’

‘You say Standing gave the declaration back to Mrs Faring. She probably
wouldn’t keep it herself—I think she would have been afraid to keep it
herself. But perhaps she wouldn’t destroy it, for the child’s sake and
perhaps for her own sake too, in case the story ever came out. I expect
she gave it to her sister to keep.’

‘But the envelope was empty.’

‘Well,’ said Charles, ‘Mrs Faring had committed bigamy. They may have
been frightened about that. It was certainly safer not to keep the
declaration.’

‘They kept the envelope.’

‘Aren’t women like that? They like to keep something. They don’t go the
whole hog and make a clean sweep of the past like a man does. You say
the envelope’s gone.’

‘Yes. It was in here. Look! The lock’s been forced.’

‘What was on it?’

‘Mr Standing’s endorsement—Greta recognized his writing at once: “Our
declaration of marriage. E. S.” I think she had signed it too, because
something had been rubbed out—initials, I think, like his. I thought
the second one was a B. You could only just see the marks.’

‘There was nothing inside the envelope?’

‘Nothing at all.’

The drawer that had been locked was full of tumbled papers. Margaret
began to straighten them. As she lifted one, a snapshot of Charles
looked up at her. She covered it quickly. That old boyish smile was
gone.

‘Here, let’s put these things away.’

Charles spoke from just behind her. She did not know whether he had seen
the photograph or not. He helped her to put the drawers away. It was
strange to be doing these things with Charles; strange and yet
extraordinarily natural to be talking to him in her flat at midnight. It
was the first time since their parting that they had talked without
bitterness. The hour comforted Margaret. He would go away, and he would
marry Greta; but at least there would have been this moment when he
didn’t hate her. Perhaps when he was married to Greta he would stop
hating her altogether. The thought touched something that lay dead, and
the old vehement, passionate Margaret woke.

All at once she was so intensely aware of Charles and of herself that
they might have been new creatures in a new world. The colour came into
her cheeks.

Charles looked at her in astonishment. The sad pale ghost of Margaret
was gone. This was Margaret herself.

They looked at one another in silence. The little green clock which he
had given her ticked from the mantelpiece. Charles pushed the last
drawer home and rose to his feet. She was only a yard away, but there
were four years between them still.

‘Why did you do it?’ he said. It was the third time that he had asked
the question; he had not meant to ask it now.

‘I told you,’ said Margaret with her head up.

‘It wasn’t an answer.’

‘It’s the only answer I’ve got.’

‘Why didn’t you tell me the truth four years ago?’

‘What was the good? There was no way out.’

‘There’s always a way out. We could have made one together.’ He spoke
with extreme vehemence; the flood of it carried him beyond his own
control. ‘You never loved me. That’s the truth.’

Margaret looked at him. The tide of passion rose and ebbed again. She
would not protest that old dead love to the Charles of today. She looked
at him, and the strange sense of newness passed away. This was the flat,
unprofitable everyday to which all romance came in the end. You had to
go on and do your best without it—you had to go on. The colour and the
fire went from her. She looked very tired.

Charles became intensely aware of having made a fool of himself. He gave
a short angry laugh.

‘It’s a bit late in the day for scenes—isn’t it? I don’t know why I dug
that up—it’s rather a poor thing in ghosts. I meant to talk business
with you. I’d like to still, if you don’t mind.’

‘It’s very late.’ The words came slowly. Charles was quite right—it was
very late—it was four years too late.

‘I won’t keep you long. I wanted to ask you about those statements you
signed. Have you any idea who’s got them?’

‘I suppose Grey Mask has got them.’

‘You don’t think it possible that Freddy has them?’

‘Oh no—I’m sure he hasn’t. He told me he had to satisfy the others.’

Charles frowned.

‘Those statements must be got back. I can’t move whilst you’re
compromised—and I’ve got to move for Greta’s sake.’

Margaret leaned against the mantelpiece.

‘I’m afraid there’s no way of getting them back. You had better leave me
out of it.’

‘How can I?’

‘Very easily.’

Charles looked at her coldly.

‘I call that unintelligent. Do you really expect me to do anything that
would land you in a police court?’

A bright flame burned her cheeks.

‘I don’t ask to be considered. Do you suppose I care what happens to me?
Do you suppose I want you to risk Greta?’

Charles’s frown darkened.

‘I haven’t any choice. Please be practical. Freddy got you into the
mess, and Freddy ought to get you out of it. When is he off?’

‘He moved out of the house today. You heard what he said—he may be off
any day. He hates to be tied.’

‘I see. All right, I’ll be going.’

He went as far as the door, then turned, strode back, and jerked a
sudden question at her:

‘Who’s Grey Mask?’

‘I don’t know,’ said Margaret.

‘You’ve no idea? None?’

She shook her head. She was frightfully pale.

‘Does Freddy know?’

‘I don’t believe any of them know,’ said Margaret in a whisper.




                             Chapter XXXVI


At eleven o’clock that night the Standing house in Grange Street was in
darkness. On the three upper floors blinds were down, curtains drawn,
and lights switched off; in the hall a faint glimmer from the small
shaded bulb which burned all night over the telephone.

A man entered Grange Square by Caton Walk and proceeded at a slow and
leisured pace round two sides of it until he came to the dark square
house at the corner. Here he stood quite still. The railings which
enclosed the plane trees, empty flower beds, and grass plots of Grange
Gardens were at his back.

It was a black night, and he stood where the shadows were blackest. He
watched the house for ten minutes or so, then walked across the road and
up the steps. Here again he stood and waited.

The house was as quiet as a house might be. The basement windows showed
no glimmer. The man opened the door with a latch-key and passed into the
hall. It was quite pleasantly warm after the cold in the square. The
tiny bulb over the telephone made the darkness here seem less dense than
the dark outside.

The man crossed the hall and stood a moment by the study door listening.
Then he opened the door very softly and went in. It was about ten
minutes before he came out again. This time he went up the stairs, which
crossed the back of the hall in a double flight. He had reached the
landing, when the front door opened and closed again softly. The man on
the stair put his right hand in his pocket, and then moved without haste
into the angle made by the stair as it continued its upward way. He
listened for the sound of another foot on the marble steps. The only
sound that came was the click of an electric switch.

Instantly the hall below was lighted from end to end, and against this
light the outline of the balustrade, showed black. The man on the stairs
came forward, leaned on the balustrade and looked over into the hall. He
saw the black and white tesselated floor all empty, and on the left the
open dining-room door. As he looked, the light went on in the
dining-room, and at the same time he heard a faint shuffling sound. It
was the sound of someone moving, of someone coming downstairs; but not
down these stairs—the sound was too faint for that. If the man had not
possessed phenomenally acute hearing, the sound would not have reached
him at all.

Someone was coming down the back stairs. He had only to stand where he
was to be unobserved. It appeared, however, that he not only desired to
remain unseen; he wished, nay, he intended, to see. He moved quickly
along a passage to the right until he reached a door that opened upon
the back stairs. Here he waited, listening. The soft shuffling footsteps
were below him. He opened the door. The stairs were dark. He followed
the footsteps down into the darkness.

At the foot of the stairs there was a baize door. He opened it
cautiously. The long passage was black, but even as he looked, light
showed at the far end. A second door swung open, a man’s figure showed
against the light, and then the door swung to again.

After a moment the man followed. At the second door he listened. There
was no sound, but the room beyond was lighted. He peeped cautiously. The
lighted room was empty. He had come to the butler’s pantry. A door led
out of it through a short length of passage to the dining-room. He took
this way with some assurance, and at the dining-room door the sound of
voices gave him pause.

Very slowly and gently, he moved the handle round until the latch
slipped and the door came a bare half-inch towards him. Through the
chink he looked into the lighted dining-room. There were two men there,
both fully dressed. He was able to recognize them both without
difficulty. Facing him was the footman William Cole. He held a tumbler
half-full of whisky and soda. His coat was torn at the neck, the right
cuff was ripped, his hair a good deal disordered. The other man was the
butler, Pullen. They were talking.

‘Who was it?’ This was Pullen, a little more hurried than when he was on
duty.

‘How should I know? I didn’t wait to ask his name, I can tell you. It
took me all I knew to get away—and all for nothing.’

‘You didn’t find it?’

William took a drink.

‘Found the envelope. What they’ve done with the paper beats me.’

He pulled out a long envelope and flung it down on the table. Pullen
picked it up and held it at arm’s length to read the endorsement:

‘ “Our declaration of marriage.” Yes, that’s it.’

‘But it’s empty. I’d hardly put my hand on it before I had to cut and
run. When I looked inside I could have done murder.’

‘Where’s the declaration? That’s what I want to know.’

‘The girl’s got it, of course. The question is—where’s the girl?’

‘Kimberley’s found her already. I went on to the Foster’s. There’s
nothing there, unless she had it on her. She was out with Millar.’

‘That girl’s been here too long. She’s got to go. Once she’s gone, it
don’t matter if a hundred certificates turn up. She’s got to go, and
that’s an end of it.’

William finished his whisky.

‘Well, do her in yourself,’ he said.

‘It’s not my line.’

‘Why should it be mine?’

‘Well, it’s yours—isn’t it—Lenny Morrison?’

William’s face underwent a horrible change. The stout Pullen recoiled.

‘Less of that! D’you hear? Call me that again, and you’ll be sorry for
it. As to the girl, she’s Egbert’s job, isn’t she?’

‘He won’t. I said so all along. Grey Mask’s giving you the job. It wants
neat doing, and Egbert’s a bungler if I ever saw one. Now, look here!
There are to be no more delays.’

The man at the door went on listening for another ten minutes. Then he
retraced his steps and vanished into the darkness of the house.

Outside in the square Miss Silver waited patiently for another hour.
When the man came out, she followed him.




                             Chapter XXXVII


Mrs Foster came down to breakfast on Thursday morning in a state of
nervous exasperation.

‘Really, Archie’s the limit! Yes, I know he’s my cousin. Now, George,
it’s no use your looking like that—I never said he was your cousin or
anybody else’s cousin—I know he’s mine. But you needn’t try and make
out that all your relations are angel beings who never do tiresome
things, or land you in holes, or shove strange girls on to you in the
middle of a dinner-party.’

The broad face of George Foster emerged from behind _The Times_.

‘Got a bit off the rails, haven’t you? Take a good deep breath and start
fresh.’

‘_George!_’

‘My dear child, what is it?’

‘I’m feeling simply too temperamental, and I could _kill_ Archie! First
he dumps this girl on me in the very middle of a dinner-party—’

‘My _good_ Ernestine!’

‘It was the next thing to it, and my table would have been utterly
spoilt if I hadn’t been _firm_ and _insisted_ on his removing her for
the evening.’

George grinned.

‘I didn’t notice your having to insist very much. Archie appeared only
too anxious to oblige.’

‘Oh, of course he’s in love with her. It’s the only excuse he’s got.
George, if you go on rustling the paper like that, I shall scream.’

‘What _is_ the matter?’

‘_Really_, George, you might have a little consideration, after the
shock of having burglars and a dinner-party and Archie’s stray flapper
all happening together. And I want to know what brought Maud Silver
here. She asked for that girl.’

‘Who’s Maud Silver?’

Ernestine flushed scarlet and bit her lip.

‘You know perfectly well. She got back those odious diamonds your mother
gave me. And I must say I _didn’t_ think you’d refer to it now when I’m
feeling as if I simply couldn’t bear to hear myself _think_.’

George said nothing; he returned to the golfing news.

‘I do really think you might _say_ something, George! You’re simply
immersed in that wretched paper. I believe you’d just go on reading it
with a burglar in the very room.’

‘What d’you want me to say? Hullo! Sandy Herd did a jolly hot round
yesterday.’

‘_Really_, George!’

‘What’s the matter?’

‘If you talk to me about golf, I shall burst into tears.’

‘What d’you want me to talk about?’

‘The burglar, of course. What on earth did he come for?’

‘Anything he could collect, I suppose.’

‘Then why did he pull out everything in the spare room and not so much
as _look_ for my diamonds? Can you tell me that?’

George could not. He lacked interest in the burglar. Since nothing had
been taken, why make a song and dance about it? He reverted to golf.

Miss Greta Wilson was late for breakfast. When she had finished, she
accompanied a slightly calmer but still fractious hostess on what George
rudely described as a ‘nose-flattening tour’.

‘Men never seem to think you want any clothes,’ said Mrs Foster. ‘George
is perfectly hopeless. If I say I want a new evening dress, he boasts,
positively boasts, of the fact that his evening clothes are pre-Ararat.’

Greta giggled.

‘I _love_ looking at clothes,’ she said. ‘It’s the next best thing to
buying them—isn’t it?’

They looked at a great many. Ernestine bought a hat, a jumper, and some
silk stockings, which soothed her a good deal. At twelve o’clock she
remembered with a shriek of dismay that she had promised, absolutely
promised, to ring up Renee Latouche and give her Jim Maxwell’s address.

‘I looked it up on purpose. And then George interrupted me and it went
right out of my head. Come along to Harridge’s and I’ll ring up from
there.’

As they turned into the big stores, a car came out of a narrow side
street and drew up by the farther kerb.

Mrs Foster left Greta to wander about on the ground floor whilst she
rushed upstairs to telephone.

‘But I shall be at least twenty minutes, because it always takes simply
ages to get Renee to the telephone. I know I shall have to talk to
everyone in the house before I get her. Maddening, I call it.’

Greta was quite pleased to be left. She looked at bewilderingly lovely
materials shining with all the colours of the rainbow, and planned a
dozen dresses. She then wandered into a duller department which
displayed travelling rugs. She was not really interested in travelling
rugs, but she pinched a fold of one of them to see how soft it was. As
she did so, a curious thing happened. A man’s hand and arm came into
view for a moment. She did not see the man, who was standing behind her;
she only saw his hand and arm. The hand was broad and hairy, the sleeve
of dark blue serge. The hand laid a note on the fleecy brown travelling
rug and withdrew as suddenly as it had come.

Greta looked at the note with eyes as round as saucers. The colour
drained slowly away from her rosy cheeks. She stared at the note and
grew paler and paler. The envelope was grey—not the common Silurian
grey, but a curious rough grey paper which was very uncommon. The
envelope was addressed in a bold clear hand to Miss Margot Standing.

After a minute of terrified hesitation Margot took up the envelope and
tore it open.

When Ernestine Foster had finished her conversation with Mrs Latouche,
she remembered that she had promised to bring home fruit for lunch. She
bought a pineapple; then decided that it would certainly be sour and
that George would inquire how much she had paid for it. After hesitating
for ten minutes between grapes and Cape peaches she decided on bananas
and apples, and then set out in a hurry to look for Greta.

Greta was not in the silk department, where she had left her, nor in the
Bank, where they had agreed to meet. She was not in Jewellery, Furs,
Gloves, Lingerie, Haberdashery, Glass, China or Gramophones.

Ernestine’s temper mounted rapidly. During the morning Greta’s
sympathetic attitude towards clothes in general and Ernestine’s
purchases in particular had softened her a good deal towards her guest;
but after Mrs Foster had searched fifteen departments Greta had a very
serious relapse into being ‘that odious flapper of Archie’s’. After half
a dozen more departments, Ernestine was not only angry, but just a
little alarmed. Of course the creature had got tired of waiting and gone
home—girls of that age never have any manners. But—

She questioned the commissionaire at every door. The man at the door by
which she and Greta had entered the stores remembered the young lady
very well. He knew Mrs Foster by sight, and he remembered her coming in
with a young lady. He remembered more than that; he remembered the young
lady coming out about ten minutes later. Oh yes, he was quite sure it
was the same young lady—she came out, and she got into a car that was
waiting at the other side of the street.

‘Was she alone?’

‘Oh yes, madam, quite alone. There was a gentleman in the car.’

‘What sort of gentleman?’

‘I couldn’t say, madam. It was a closed car with a chauffeur. The
chauffeur went into the stores and came out again a minute or two before
the young lady.’

‘What kind of a car was it?’

‘It was a Daimler, madam.’

Ernestine went home very angry indeed. She rang up her cousin, Archie
Millar, and was told he had gone out for lunch. She left an urgent
message, and upbraided George all through lunch for the total lack of
courtesy and consideration displayed by his sex.

‘If Archie wanted to take the girl out to lunch, why didn’t he say so?
Heaven knows where he raised the car from. Archie with a Daimler and a
chauffeur, if you please! And isn’t it just like a man to dump a girl on
me one minute, and then positively abduct her about five minutes before
lunch and without saying a single word? I don’t suppose he’ll go near
his office again till three o’clock. Then he’ll shoot the girl back here
and expect me to look after her. Would anyone but a man be so
exasperating?’

At half-past two Archie rang up.

‘Hello, Ernestine!’

‘_Really_, Archie, you’re the limit!’

‘My dear girl, why so peeved? If you’re not careful, you’ll be gettin’
wrinkles in the voice. What price voice massage?’

‘I must say I think you might have let me know you were going to carry
the girl off like that. I might have imagined something had happened to
her.’

‘I say—what’s all this?’

‘I think you might just have told me.’

‘Told you what?’

‘Of course George takes your part. He would—men always do.’

‘What have I done?’

‘If you were going to take her out to lunch—and I suppose you arranged
it last night—why on earth couldn’t she have said so instead of leaving
me stranded at Harridge’s?’

‘Ernestine, what are you talkin’ about? Where’s Greta?’

‘I’m sure I don’t know. Hasn’t she been lunching with you?’

‘No, she hasn’t. I say, suppose you tell me what’s been happenin’?’

‘You _didn’t_ fetch her from Harridge’s?’

‘No, of course I didn’t.’

‘Then who did?’

‘Look here, tell me what happened.’

‘I went upstairs to telephone to Renee Latouche, because I’d promised
her Jim Maxwell’s address, and George was so exasperating that I forgot
all about it till Greta and I were passing Harridge’s.’

‘Well?’

‘It took me ages to get Renee—it always does. And when I’d finished, I
couldn’t find Greta anywhere. I went into every department. D’you know,
they’ve got departments for things I’ve never even heard of. I went
everywhere, and she simply wasn’t there. And then I asked the
commissionaires. And one of them had seen us go in, and he said he’d
seen Greta come out only about ten minutes afterwards. He said she got
into a Daimler that was waiting and went off. And of course I thought it
was you.’

‘A Daimler!’

‘With a chauffeur. The commissionaire said there was a man inside.
Wasn’t it you?’

‘No, it wasn’t. I haven’t seen her since last night.’

Ernestine hardly knew Archie’s voice.

‘Then who was it?’

‘What time did all this happen?’

‘Well, it was about twelve when I remembered about telephoning to Renee,
and the commissionaire said Greta came out about ten minutes after we
went in, so—’

‘Ernestine! I told you not to let her go about alone!’

Ernestine became sharply offended.

‘Well, if you call that letting her go about alone!’

Archie rang off.




                            Chapter XXXVIII


Charles spent the afternoon going through a stack of papers at Thornhill
Square. It was about five o’clock when he finished with them and went
out by the garden way. It was dusk but not yet dark. The alley-way was
much darker than the garden.

When he had shut and locked the door in the wall, he stood for a moment,
and then turned to the right instead of to the left. The impulse which
made him do this was so slight and undefined that it took no definite
shape in his mind. He turned to the right instead of to the left and
walked slowly along the alley-way.

On his right were the other gardens of Thornhill Square, on his left the
smaller, narrower gardens of George Street. On both sides, brick walls
broken at intervals by wooden doors. The slope of the ground hid all but
the top storeys of the houses on the right; but the George Street houses
showed back windows lighted and curtained.

Charles had walked a dozen yards or so before it occurred to him that it
was a sentimental desire to look at the Pelhams’ house which had brought
him out of his way. That he might have looked at it any day since his
return was true; and it was equally true that he had never felt impelled
to do so. He discovered the reason now. It was the empty house that drew
him, because, empty, it held a thousand memories.

He walked past the bend in the alley and stood where he had often stood
waiting for Margaret to slip through the garden door. The house was
larger than the others in the street—larger, and older by a hundred
years; a square Georgian house with modern additions. The study was an
addition, and a hideous one. It jutted out, breaking the square lines,
and from it a frightful iron stair descended to the garden. From the
alley you could see the French window and the looped spirals of the
stair.

Charles had stood a hundred times where he was standing now and watched,
for the window to open. He watched now with a definite feeling of what a
fool he was to stare at an empty house and people it with memories. The
dusk was darkening into night; the house was just a black square. He
could no longer discern either window or stair, when suddenly the window
sprang into view, a brilliant oblong crossed with black lines. It showed
for a moment, and then a man pulled down the blind.

The man was Freddy Pelham; and the sight of Freddy sent all those
romantic memories back into the past to which they belonged; their place
was taken by the practical consideration that here was a most excellent
opportunity of tackling Freddy about the whole stupid Grey Mask
imbroglio.

Charles tried the garden door, found it open, and walked briskly up the
garden path. The iron stair was wet and slippery under foot, the
hand-rail coldly insecure—a beastly contraption like seaside lodgings.
He rapped on the window, and could have laughed at Freddy Pelham’s
scared face when he raised the blind and peered into the
darkness—‘Probably thinks it’s one of Grey Mask’s little lot.’

Freddy’s relief at recognizing Charles Moray was touching.

‘I’m all alone in the house, you see. And I shouldn’t be much use if it
came to a rough-and-tumble with a burglar—what? Now there was Hugo
Byrne—you remember Hugo—no, he was before your time—his mother was
Edith Peace, and his sister married one of the Dunlop Murrays—no
relation of yours of course. Let me see, what was I going to tell you?
Oh yes—burglars. Well, poor old Hugo got up in the middle of the night
and thought he heard a burglar and—let me see, did I tell you?—he’d
got his wife’s uncle down from Scotland staying with them—he married
Josephine Campbell, you know. No, no, not Josephine—she was the dark
one—Elizabeth Campbell. Yes, I’m sure it was Elizabeth, because she had
red hair, and we used to call her Red Liz—behind her back, you know,
behind her back. And—where was I? Oh yes—poor old Hugo and the
burglar. Of course it turned out to be old Robert Campbell. And he never
left them a penny. Rather too bad—what?’

The study was in its usual condition of disorder. How Freddy ever found
anything in it was a mystery. He appeared to have been making some
slight attempt to clear things up.

‘Frightful mess—what? Sit down—sit down. Here, put those photograph
albums on the floor. No—perhaps better leave those. This chair now—we
can shift these papers. Nothing of importance there—what? Only
bills—nothing to break one’s heart over, if some of them did get
lost—what?’

He tilted a confused mass of papers on to the floor.

‘Thanks, I won’t sit,’ said Charles. ‘I’m afraid I’m interrupting you.
Fact is I wanted to ask you about something, and when I saw the light I
thought I’d come up and get it over.’

‘Well, what can I do for you? I don’t suppose I shall do much more here
anyway. I thought I’d try and clear up some of this mess; but I’m off
tomorrow, and there’s too much of it—I can’t tackle it. Margaret’s
coming up to say goodbye. I telephoned to her place to let her know I’d
be here, and she’ll come along as soon as she gets off. That’s why the
garden door’s open—she’ll come along that way. Well, well, I shall be
glad when I’m off. I don’t like saying goodbye—that’s a fact. Stupid of
me—isn’t it?’

He was fidgeting with the litter on the table. There was something
pathetic about the aimless movements and the deprecating glances which
accompanied them.

Charles felt very sorry for him. He said,

‘Oh, I don’t know,’ and then, ‘It was about Margaret I wanted to speak
to you.’

Freddy brightened into curiosity.

‘About Margaret—what? You don’t mean to say—no, no, of course
not—much better let bygones be bygones. I remember Tommy Hadow now—he
got engaged to the second Jenkins girl—I can’t for the life of me
remember her name—something short. Dot? No. May? No, it wasn’t May.’

‘It’s nothing of that sort,’ said Charles firmly.

‘Well, well, I’m sorry—in a way, I’m sorry. But all the same I don’t
know that it does to bring these things on again. It didn’t answer in
Tommy’s case. Separated in a year—and that’s worse than a broken
engagement. Gwendoline! That was the girl’s name—Gwendoline Jenkins!
And her sister married Sam Fortescue.’

‘No, it’s nothing of that sort,’ said Charles. He thought Freddy vaguer
than ever, and did not feel the slightest interest in the Jenkins
family. ‘Look here, Freddy, I really do want to talk to you. Naturally
you’ve got Margaret’s interests very much at heart, and I thought
perhaps if we put our heads together, we could do something to help her
out of her present false position.’

It was incredibly difficult. The words he was using seemed to him of a
stilted ineptitude, a sort of cross between the Meanderings of Monty and
the platitudes of the Reverend Mr Barlow.

Freddy looked across the table at him with a curious fluttered
expression.

‘Charles—you distress me. I don’t think I understand. What’s all this
about a false position?’ He did not say, ‘And what has this got to do
with you?’ but there was just a hint of it in his manner.

Charles plunged on:

‘Margaret is certainly in a false position. And look here, Freddy,
you’re going abroad—your plans are apparently very uncertain—you may
be away for years—anything may happen. I think you’ll agree that
Margaret ought not to be left—’ He hesitated for a word, and finally
produced ‘involved’.

Freddy rumpled his mouse-coloured hair.

‘My dear boy, you distress me very much. Has Margaret been getting into
debt? I’ve offered her an allowance, and she won’t take it. I really
don’t know why.’

‘I wasn’t talking about debts.’

‘But you said “involved”.’

‘I didn’t mean debt. I think you must know what I mean—’ he looked away
for a minute—‘in fact you do know. I want you to understand that I know
too.’ He paused, and added, ‘Margaret has told me why she broke off her
engagement.’

He looked back at Freddy and saw a blank, white face, small eyes
peering, hands shaking. ‘Good Lord, what a blue funk he’s in!’ Rather
horrible to see poor little Freddy like that—horrible to see anyone in
such a ghastly funk. Why, the forehead under the mouse-coloured hair was
streaming wet.

Freddy put up one of those shaking hands and pushed the damp hair back.

‘What did she tell you?’

Charles repeated what Margaret had told him.

‘She said you’d slipped into it when you were a boy. She said the affair
was political—but of course you won’t expect me to believe that. I
don’t say you didn’t believe it when you were seventeen. I don’t know
anything about that, and it doesn’t matter. But you know as well as I do
now that this Grey Mask business is just a big criminal organization run
for gain.’

Freddy put his head in his hands. The white wet face was hidden, but
Charles felt that the terrified eyes still peered at him through the
shaking fingers. A little contempt flavoured his pity. No wonder
Margaret had had to bear the brunt if this was a sample of how Freddy
went to bits in an emergency.

‘Look here, Freddy,’ he said. Then, with sudden impatience. ‘For
heaven’s sake, man, pull yourself together! Don’t slump like that.’

An inarticulate sound, half-sob, half-protest, came from behind Freddy’s
hands.

Charles walked up and down.

‘I don’t want to reproach you—I’m not going to reproach you; but you
must see that it’s up to you to try and get Margaret out of the mess you
got her into. You can’t just go off abroad and leave her to it.’

Another sound. Charles made nothing of it.

‘Of course she was an absolute fool to sign anything. She told me she
put her name to two statements, both highly damaging. Those statements
must be got back. That’s really what I’ve come to talk to you about.
When people are on the wrong side of the law like this Grey Mask crowd,
there must be ways of doing a deal with them. That’s where you come in.
You know them—you’re in touch with them—you’re in a position to—’

Freddy dropped his hands.

‘You don’t understand. I can’t do anything.’

‘Something’s _got_ to be done.’

Freddy leaned back, his hands on his knees, his whole figure limp.

‘You don’t know them. You must forgive me—Charles, it was such a
shock—to find that you had any knowledge of—’ He spoke in a series of
jerks, and at the end of each short sentence his voice was almost gone.

‘I suppose it was. I want you to understand my position. I’m concerned
for two people. Margaret’s one of them, and Greta Wilson is the other.
I’m very deeply concerned for Greta, because I believe she is in a very
dangerous position; and I’m so placed that I can’t do what I ought to do
to protect Greta without running the risk of finding that Margaret is
involved.’

‘What do you mean?’ said Freddy Pelham.

‘It’s obvious, isn’t it? Unless we can get back those two statements
which you got Margaret to sign, I can’t put Greta under police
protection. You heard her story about being followed by a strange car. I
believe she was within an ace of being carried off then, just as I
believe she was within an ace of slipping to her death under the bus
last night. You know she was pushed. Do you know who pushed her?’

Freddy stiffened; everything about him seemed to go rigid. The effect
was one of extreme terror, of a creature in a trap with every muscle
tense—waiting.

Charles looked at him with something like horror.

‘Freddy! For heaven’s sake, don’t say you knew!’

Freddy shook his head. The tension relaxed. He said faintly,

‘It was a shock’; and then, ‘she slipped.’

‘She slipped because she was pushed. I mean to know who pushed her. I
mean to bring the whole damned crowd to justice. And I want you to help
me. For Margaret’s sake—for your own sake—I want you to help me. I
don’t ask you to appear in the matter at all. You can go off abroad
tomorrow and be out of it all. If you’re wise, you’ll keep out of it. I
want to know who’s got those statements of Margaret’s.’

‘Grey Mask,’ said Freddy with a shudder.

‘Who is Grey Mask?’

Freddy shuddered again.

‘No—one—knows.’

‘Don’t you know?’

Again that curious rigidity, that fixed stare of fear.

‘Freddy, pull yourself together! I’m not asking for anything that will
compromise you—I only want your help for Margaret. I can’t work in the
dark. Give me a hint of whom to approach.’

‘I can’t tell you anything.’

‘Look here, Freddy, you’re forcing my hand. If you don’t help—if you
_won’t_ help me, I shall have to take my own way. I shall have to take
it more or less in the dark. Margaret may suffer—you yourself may
suffer. Don’t you see that the minute I move I may pull the whole thing
down? If you’ll help me, I believe we can get Margaret out, and I swear
I’ll do my best for you. But if I have to go on without knowing where I
am, it may very easily mean the worst kind of smash.’

Freddy sat silent.

‘You see you force my hand. I can’t delay any longer. I can go to the
police and tell them what I know or—’ he spoke very slowly and
deliberately—‘I can go to Pullen and try to do a deal with him.’

Freddy Pelham started forward. His left hand gripped the table edge; his
right fell fumbling on the handle of a drawer.

‘Who’s—Pullen?’

Charles laughed angrily.

‘Don’t you know? I think you do. Well? Are you going to help me? Or am I
to try Pullen or—Lenny Morrison?’

Freddy’s mouth opened, but for a moment no sound came. Then in a
whisper, he began to say ‘Go’; and having brought the word out once, it
seemed as if he could not stop saying it:

‘Go—go—go—’

Charles walked to the door. The scene had become as useless as it was
painful. He walked to the door, and with his hand already on the knob,
he turned.

He saw the untidy littered room. He saw the untidy littered table. And
he saw Freddy Pelham with an automatic in his hand. He saw Freddy’s
face, different, quite hard, quite cool. He saw Freddy’s eyes, the eyes
of a stranger. And he saw all these things in a flashing moment that
could not be counted as time. It had the instantaneous character of
thought. And before the next second followed, two things happened
simultaneously—Freddy Pelham fired, and Charles ducked. He heard the
shot as a muffled sound that passed into the ringing of a thousand
bells. He plunged down into darkness.




                             Chapter XXXIX


Archie Millar had been spending the most horrible afternoon of his life.
He went first to Harridge’s, where he questioned the commissionaire
without adding anything to what Mrs Foster had already told him. He then
rang up The Luxe, only to discover that Charles Moray was not in the
hotel.

He found Miss Silver’s office closed, and again rang up The Luxe. Still
no Charles.

After this he rushed into Sauterelle’s and demanded Margaret Langton.
Miss Langton had taken a selection of hats to a customer on the other
side of London. On the plea of very urgent family affairs Archie
extracted the customer’s address and proceeded there. Margaret had left
ten minutes before.

He rang up The Luxe again from a public call-office and returned to
Sauterelle’s. Margaret had just come in. He had to wait whilst she was
fetched. She found a very distracted young man.

‘Margaret, she’s gone!’

Margaret did not need to ask who. A most sickening feeling of fear drove
the faint colour from her cheeks.

‘What has happened?’

‘She’s disappeared. Ernestine had no business to leave her.’ He poured
out the commissionaire’s story. ‘I’m nearly off my head. Charles told me
about the bus. They’ve carried her off. Heaven knows why she went with
him, but she’s such a darlin’ little innocent, she’d never
think—Margaret, what _are_ we to do?’

‘You must go to the police.’ Her voice was quite steady.

‘Charles said—Look here, I’ll have another shot at Miss Silver first.’

‘I’ve heard of her. But I don’t see—’

‘Charles was seein’ her. She knows all about everythin’. He told me last
night. I wish to heaven I could get hold of Charles. It’s past five—he
may have come in. I’ll go and have another shot.’

‘Wait,’ said Margaret. ‘Wait a minute. I—there’s something I can do. I
get off at six. There’s someone I can go and see. I don’t know that it’s
much good, but—it might be. Where shall I find you?’

‘Better telephone to Ernestine. I’ll ring up at intervals and find out
if there’s any message. I can’t tell where I shall be.’

He went off once again, tried to get Charles, and, failing, asked
without hope for Maud Silver’s number. To his overwhelming relief he got
it, heard a most welcome click, and then Miss Silver’s voice saying
‘Hullo!’

‘Miss Silver, is that you?’

‘Speaking.’

‘It’s Archie Millar. I’ve met you at my cousin’s. Charles Moray told
me—’

‘Quite so, Mr Millar. I may say I’ve been expecting you.’

‘I came round, and your office was shut up.’

‘Quite so—I had to go out. You wish for news of Miss Wilson?’

‘Miss Silver, d’you know where she is?’

‘I know where I think you may have news of her. Will you take down the
address? Number ten, Grange Square.’

‘But I say, Miss Silver, that’s where—I say, you know what I
mean—isn’t that—’

Miss Silver rang off.

Quarter of an hour later he was ringing the doorbell of No. 10. The door
was opened by a plain, neat young woman in cap and apron. Of butler or
footman there was no sign. Up to this very moment it had not occurred to
Archie that he had no idea for whom he was going to ask; his idea had
been to get to the house, to get news of Greta, to—well, to get to the
house.

He looked at the plain young woman, and felt like a fool.

‘Mr Millar?’ said the maid.

Archie walked into the hall and followed dumbly up a marble stair. On
the first floor, a long corridor with Persian runners; a dim, soft
light; an air of hushed expectancy.

Archie stopped being harassed and torn by doubts and fears. An
overpowering sensation of having walked straight into a story from the
Arabian Nights removed all other feelings. He breathed the air of hushed
expectancy and found it pleasant.

The maid opened a door.

‘Mr Millar,’ she said.

Archie passed into the room and heard the door close behind him.

The room was large and solemn; it had the ordered richness of a shrine.
The Persian rugs upon the floor were dim and soft and old. The light
came from crystal sconces set on the panelled walls.

Archie looked down the room and beheld Miss Margot Standing curled up on
a purple couch. She wore a white frock and a pleased expression. She was
eating chocolates.

He had no very clear idea of how he got across the room. He found
himself with his arm around Margot’s waist; he had an impression that he
had just kissed her, and that she did not seem to mind; he was saying
things like ‘My blessed little darlin’’; and she was staring at him with
round, surprised blue eyes.

‘Archie! How f-funny you are!’

Archie kissed a sticky little hand and held it to his cheek.

‘My blessed child! Darlin’, where _have_ you been? I’ve been nearly off
my head about you.’

Margot took her hand away and sucked the stickiest finger. She looked
through her black lashes at Archie and giggled.

‘Did you think I was lost?’

Archie nodded.

‘I said you would—I said you and Charles would both think I was lost.
Were you in a frightful state? Is Charles nearly off his head too? I do
_hope_ he is! It’s frightfully exciting to have people in a frightful
state about you.’

Archie began to pull himself together.

‘You leave Charles alone—he’s not in on this scene. You fix your mind
on me. What d’you mean by runnin’ away like that? I haven’t had time to
look in the glass, but I shouldn’t be a bit surprised if my hair hadn’t
been doin’ the turnin’ white in a single night stunt.’

Margot giggled.

‘It hasn’t.’ She pushed the chocolates towards him. ‘Have a choc. That’s
a most frightfully good sort, only it comes off creamy on your fingers.
I’m sticky all over from mine. _Do_ have one.’

Archie shook his head.

‘I only eat that sort in my bath.’

‘Tell me about Charles. Is he looking for me?’

‘I don’t know.’

‘Doesn’t he know I’m _lost_?’

‘I don’t suppose he does.’

‘Oh, but I want him to—I want him to be frightfully upset, and then
frightfully pleased to find me, just like you were. You _were_ pleased
to find me—weren’t you?’

She put her face up to his.

Archie kissed her again, this time quite deliberately. Margot returned
his kiss with engaging frankness. Then she sat back. Neither of them
heard a door open and close again.

‘Are you proposing to me? Because you haven’t done it at all properly if
you are. You ought to have _said_ things first, and not kissed me till I
said “Yes”.’ Her mouth quivered a little. ‘It’s my first proposal, and I
did want it to be a proper one. I don’t count Egbert.’ Archie took both
her hands—they were still rather sticky. He kissed them gently.

‘My darlin’ child, I’d propose to you from here till the end of next
week if it was the slightest good. I love you quite a lot, you know.’

‘That’s better,’ said Margot. Then her mouth quivered a little more.
‘Why isn’t it any good? Aren’t you going to? Why aren’t you?’

‘Because you’re not old enough,’ said Archie. ‘You’re just a blessed
baby, and I should be a perfect brute if I asked you to marry me.’

Margot’s bright round eyes filled with angry tears. She pulled her hands
away with a jerk.

‘Why, I’m eighteen! Lots of people are _married_ by the time they’re
eighteen. One of the girls at school had a sister who was engaged six
times before she was eighteen.’ She began to cry. ‘I think it’s
_frightfully_ horrid of you. And you’ve spoilt my first proposal.
And—and—you needn’t think I wanted you to propose to me. And you
needn’t think I’d have said “yes”. And you needn’t think I like you the
least little bit, because I _don’t_!’

‘Look here, darlin’—’

‘I think you’re _frightfully_ horrid!’ said Margot with a sob. Then
suddenly she caught him by the hand. ‘You _did_ say you loved me, didn’t
you?’

‘I oughtn’t to have said it.’

Margot pinched him very hard.

‘I _hate_ you when you talk like that. You kissed me, and you _did_ say
you loved me—you _know_ you did. And then you go and spoil everything
by saying I’m not old enough.’ She made a snuggling movement towards
him. ‘Archie—_darling_—_do_ propose to me properly. I might say “yes”
if you ask me frightfully nicely.’ Then she looked up and gave a little
scream.

Archie turned round.

A man with thick grey hair and rather hard features was leaning on the
end of the sofa. His expression was one of amusement.

Archie sprang up. He stared at the man, and his jaw dropped. A dozen
different photographs of this man had frowned or smiled in just this
sarcastic manner from the pages of every illustrated paper in London.
The shock of recognition was so great that he forgot everything else.

The man spoke. There was a suspicion of a northern burr in his voice.

‘How do you do, Mr Millar? I must introduce myself. My name is Edward
Standing.’




                               Chapter XL


Archie felt a tug at his sleeve. Margot had jumped up, scattering her
chocolates. She hung on his arm, laughing and excited.

‘Archie, you didn’t guess, did you? Papa, I didn’t tell him. I wanted to
frightfully, but I didn’t. So you see I _can_ keep a promise. I didn’t
tell him a single word—did I, Archie? Archie, isn’t it _frightfully_
exciting about Papa not being drowned? Papa, may I tell him _all_ about
it now? Because we’re very nearly engaged—aren’t we, Archie? Papa, he
won’t propose to me because he says I’m not old enough. Archie, if
_Papa_ says I’m old enough, will you do it properly? Papa—’

Mr Standing put a hand on her shoulder.

‘I want to talk to Mr Millar. Run away and play.’

Margot pouted, then brightened.

‘My hands are a bit sticky. If I go and wash them, will that be long
enough?’

Mr Standing gave her a push towards the door.

‘I’ll call you when I’m ready.’

When she had gone, he turned a cool, hard gaze upon Archie.

‘So you think Margot’s too young to be engaged?’

The back of Archie’s neck burned.

‘I don’t quite know when you came in, sir.’

‘Well, I heard you tell her she was too young. I agree with you. We’ll
leave it at that. You didn’t, I take it, expect to find me here.’

‘I didn’t expect to find Margot. I came because Miss Silver told me to
come.’

‘Yes, I know all about that. I have met Miss Silver. She tells me I am
very considerably indebted both to you and to Mr Charles Moray. I am
very glad to have the opportunity of thanking you and of explaining some
of the rather extraordinary things that have been happening. Sit down,
Mr Millar.’

Archie sat down. He was irresistibly reminded of interviews, now happily
remote, with his headmaster; there was the same feeling of
unpreparedness.

Mr Standing laughed suddenly. The atmosphere changed.

‘We’re being a bit solemn, aren’t we? That’s my fault, I’m afraid. I
must have been a bit of a shock to you. Now Margot took me with perfect
calm—she merely remarked. “Oh, Papa, you’re _not_ drowned! How
frightfully nice!” and at once proceeded to pour out a full account of
some very curious adventures. Well, I’m beginning at the end of the
story. I must go back a bit.’

Mr Standing sat forward in his chair.

‘I want to begin by saying something about all this rubbish that has
appeared in the papers on the subject of my daughter’s legitimacy. I am
sending a statement to the Press tomorrow. I married as a young man, and
I am now a widower. My marriage did not take place in England. Margot is
my legitimate daughter. I had _not_ failed to provide for her future. I
made my will fifteen years ago. The document was in the hands of my
solicitor, Mr Hale senior. It was destroyed after his father’s death,
and after my supposed death, by Mr James Hale.’

‘He _was_ in it then! Do you know, sir, it was Margot who wouldn’t let
us go to him—and a jolly good thing we didn’t. Charles Moray was
tellin’ me all about it last night.’

‘Yes, James Hale was in it. And so, I regret to say, was my nephew
Egbert. Well, that disposes of the will. About a year ago I became aware
of the existence of a criminal conspiracy directed by a singularly
cunning and able rascal. Certain things came to my knowledge; but I
hadn’t a shred of evidence against anybody. Then, about two months ago,
my man Jaffray came to me with a most extraordinary story. He was a good
fellow whom I used as a sort of steward-cum-valet on my yacht. He’d been
left stone deaf after shell-shock. Well, a queer thing happened—he got
his hearing back. He said it came quite suddenly one day when he was
crossing Hammersmith Broadway. He said one minute everything was quiet,
and the next the roar of the traffic nearly knocked him down. Well, he
didn’t tell anyone except me. He said he wasn’t sure it would last. And
then he had another reason. He went down to the yacht to get ready for
my cruise, and he overheard a conversation between the understeward and
my butler, Pullen. It was an appalling conversation. He came off and
told me about it. Pullen and this man Ward were discussing the best way
of murdering me—that’s what it amounted to. Well, I thought things out,
and I made up my mind to give them a helping hand. D’you see?’

‘Well, I don’t exactly.’

‘I might have called in the police, and I suppose I could have got
Pullen and Ward. But I wanted the others. Most particularly, I wanted
the man who was running the show, Grey Mask. I thought I’d let them
think their plan had succeeded, and see if they didn’t come out into the
open a bit. So I told Jaffray to see if he couldn’t get taken on as
second murderer. He did it very well—started by grumbling to Ward about
his wages and one thing and another, got up some good red-hot Communist
stuff, and let it off at discreet intervals. In the end Ward told him
the whole thing. But Ward only knew Pullen—and he didn’t know him as
Pullen or as my butler. He didn’t know any of the others. Well, Jaffray
and I fixed up a very nice high-class assassination. We lay off Majorca,
and I hired a boat to hang round and pick me up after Jaffray had pushed
me overboard on a dark, windy night, I’m a first-class swimmer, and I
had a life-belt in case of accidents. It came off nicely enough. I went
over to Paris and waited for news. Jaffray went back to London. And then
the fun began. They came out into the open just as I hoped they would.
James Hale gave himself away by saying there was no will—he had handled
it in my presence only a week before I sailed. My nephew Egbert also
knew that there was a will—I had acquainted him with the terms of it no
farther back than last August. He and Hale trumped up a forged letter
from me alluding to Margot being illegitimate. They staged the affair so
that one of Hale’s clerks, a perfectly innocent young fellow, found the
letter. It would all have been very clever if I had really been dead.
What I want to say to you is this, I never dreamt of any risk for
Margot—it didn’t occur to me that Hale would get her back from
Switzerland. As soon as Jaffray wrote and told me she was here alone, I
came across. By the time I arrived she had disappeared. It was Jaffray
who discovered her whereabouts. I decided that she was safe with Miss
Langton. I was extremely anxious not to be recognized, as I had not yet
got the evidence that I needed against Pullen and another man, the
footman called William Cole. I was also extremely anxious to find out
who was really running the show. On Tuesday, however, I made up my mind
to fetch Margot away. I went with Jaffray and the car to fetch her. But
she took fright. I had told Jaffray to tell her I was there. He said “Mr
Standing”, and she jumped to the conclusion that it was her cousin
Egbert who was trying to carry her off. Not unnaturally, she ran away.’

‘Yes, she told me. So that was it?’

Mr Standing nodded.

‘As you know, you upset my plans by taking her to a new address next
day. It took me all day to find her. This morning Jaffray and I followed
her in the car, and I sent Jaffray into Harridge’s with a note for her.
She came at once, and I brought her here. A conversation which I myself
overheard last night between Pullen and William Cole convinced me that I
could not risk waiting any longer. The two men were arrested this
morning. James Hale, I am sorry to say, got out of the country. My
nephew has thrown himself upon my mercy. I believe him to be a mere
tool. The man I want—the man who’s at the back of everything, the
cold-blooded ruffian who gave orders to have my daughter “removed”, in
other words murdered—Millar, I’m no nearer knowing who he really is
than I was when I began.’

‘He isn’t Hale?’

‘No, he’s not Hale—though I believe that Hale knows who he is. I don’t
believe any of the others do, and—Hale’s out of the country.’

The door opened and Margot came in with a doubtful air.

‘You didn’t call—but you’ve been simply _ages_.’




                              Chapter XLI


Charles came back to feelings of extreme discomfort. He opened his eyes
and saw light coming down from above. There was something dark on either
side of him; the light came down between two dark walls. The right side
of his head felt just as it had felt when he was nine years old and had
run into the corner of the dining-room cupboard. He blinked at the light
and tried to move. He couldn’t.

He had an instant of intense fear, and then realized with relief that
the reason he couldn’t move was that his hands and feet were tied. At
the same moment a horrible choking feeling was explained by the presence
of a gag.

He was lying on his back with his knees drawn up. A thick wad of
something filled his mouth. He stared up at the light, and his head
began to clear. The dark wall on the right was the study wall; the dark
wall on the left was the back of Freddy Pelham’s sofa. He was lying on
the ground between the sofa and the wall with his hands tied in front of
him and his ankles strapped together. There was a most abominable gag in
his mouth.

These things, which belonged to the immediate moment, presented
themselves with increasing definiteness. What on earth had happened? His
unconsciousness hung like a black curtain between him and the events
which had preceded it. He could hear Freddy Pelham moving in the room.
He crossed the floor and threw back the lid of a box. Then he crossed
the floor again. Now he moved a chair, and there was a rustling of
papers.

Charles knew that it was Freddy who was moving to and fro in the room.
He could remember coming up the iron stair from the garden and seeing
Freddy pull the blind aside and open the door to let him in. What on
earth had happened after that? Something about Margaret. Something about
Grey Mask. Quite suddenly he had a swift, unnaturally brilliant picture
of the study as it looked from the door—not the door into the garden,
but the other door that led out on to the staircase. He saw the room,
and he saw Freddy Pelham with an automatic in his hand and cool, cold
murder in his eyes. He saw Freddy’s finger move. That was the picture,
everything in it very hard and bright and clear. It kept coming and
going; and as it came and went, he began to remember.

He had got as far as the door; he had turned; he had seen Freddy; he had
ducked, and Freddy had fired. The shot must have grazed the right side
of his head and knocked him out. Freddy had trussed him up and shoved
him away behind the sofa. He had done this because Margaret was coming.
At this point his mind became quite clear. He heard Freddy Pelham get up
and come towards him. The sofa was moved some inches. Freddy leaned over
the back of it and looked down at him.

Freddy? Freddy Pelham? Charles stared at a stranger with Freddy Pelham’s
features and Freddy Pelham’s clothes. This was not the Freddy whom he or
anyone else had known—the foolish, amiable Freddy whom one laughed at
and was fond of, and who bored one so terribly with his reminiscences.
Hard merciless eyes looked coldly down at Charles; a cruel mouth relaxed
into a smile; a clearer, harder voice than Freddy’s spoke:

‘So you’re not dead? It’s a pity—for you.’

Charles glared. At the sight of Freddy’s smile such a hot rage boiled up
in him that he felt as if he would burst.

Freddy nodded.

‘You’re beginning to realize what a damn fool you’ve made of yourself.
Amusing—isn’t it? Just think of all the times you’ve laughed at me
behind my back and been nice to me in a pleasant condescending way for
Margaret’s sake. And just think what a howling fool you were making of
yourself all the time. It’s really rather a pity that I can’t take the
gag out and hear what you’ve got to say about it. Perhaps later on, in a
more secluded spot—I’m afraid it won’t do here, but I really should
like to hear what you’ve got to say. I’m afraid you’re not very
comfortable; but that can’t be helped.’

He held the back of the sofa and began to laugh, rocking gently to and
fro. ‘My dear Charles, you’ve no idea what a fool you look! I’m really
delighted that you’re not seriously hurt. In case you’re worrying about
it, do let me beg you not to be fussed about your wound. It’s really a
mere nothing—a graze. You can’t think how pleased I am, because there
are things that I’m really going to enjoy saying to you. I’ve always
disliked you a good deal. You had the impudence to admire Esther, for
one thing, and to combine it with a scarcely veiled contempt for myself.
When I broke off your engagement to Margaret, I was really combining
business with pleasure. I hope you realize how entirely you owe the
pleasure of being publicly jilted on the eve of your wedding day to me.’

Charles had mastered the blind rage which betrayed itself. He kept his
eyes on Freddy in a stare of contempt.

‘Margaret told you that she saw part of a letter of mine. Naturally I
couldn’t risk her marrying you and telling you what she had seen. As a
matter of fact, I don’t know how much she did see—but none of it was
really fit for publication. I don’t think I’ve ever been so careless
before or since—I shouldn’t have lasted so long if I had. I’ve had
twenty years of it, and you’re the very first person who has ever
guessed that I was Grey Mask.’

The name fell like a spark into the vague gaseous imaginings that had
been coming and going in Charles’s mind. There was a flare which
illumined all the dark places. By its light Charles read his death
warrant. The only person who had ever guessed the identity of Grey Mask
would not be given the chance of passing the secret on. Something of
this knowledge must have shown in his eyes, for Freddy laughed.

‘You’ve got it, have you? Think it over for a bit.’

He disappeared, crossed to the window, and almost immediately returned.

‘Margaret is coming up the garden. Now please realize this—if you make
the slightest sound, if you attract her attention in any way, I shall
shoot—not you, but her. Don’t imagine for a moment that this is bluff.
If it comes in the way of business, I don’t care who I remove. But as a
matter of fact, I dislike Margaret almost as much as I dislike you, and
if you provide me with the excuse, I shall be charmed. Make as much
noise as you please. You can kick the leg of the sofa, I expect, if you
try.’ He leant over and flicked Charles on the cheek.

The next instant there came a tapping on the window. The sofa was pushed
back into its place, and Freddy Pelham’s footsteps receded.

Charles lay quite still. Freddy meant what he said. He had not the
slightest doubt of that—not the very slightest. He lay perfectly still,
and heard the French window open; Margaret’s voice; Freddy’s voice—the
old half-hesitating voice;

‘Now this is very nice of you, my dear—very nice indeed. I meant to
come round, but time’s getting short, getting terribly short—first
thing tomorrow morning, you know, and I don’t feel as if I should ever
be packed in time—I’m not good at it, you know, not at all good at
it—never was, never will be—what?’

‘Can I help?’

The sound of Margaret’s voice, tired, soft, kind, hurt Charles so much
that he could hardly bear it. He could only see those two dark walls and
the light coming down between them; but he knew in his heart how
Margaret looked when she said that—she was pale, she had dark shadows
under her eyes; she looked beautifully and kindly at the little mocking
devil who would be charmed to have an excuse for removing her.

Margaret spoke again:

‘Freddy, you look bothered, and I’m afraid I’ve come to bother you more.
But I must.’

‘Anything I can do, my dear.’

‘Freddy, I’m in dreadful trouble about Greta.’

‘About Greta? There, my dear, don’t distress yourself. What’s she been
doing?’

‘Freddy—she’s disappeared!’

‘Oh, come! Disappeared! You mean she’s gone out with some young fellow
and not come back yet. Give her time—what?’

‘No, no, it’s not that. She disappeared in broad daylight from
Harridge’s. The commissionaire saw her get into a strange car and go
off. Archie’s wild with anxiety.’

Freddy laughed, the old rather foolish laugh which was so familiar.

‘Master Archie’s in love. He’s jealous because Miss Greta has gone off
for the day with someone else.’

‘Freddy, it isn’t that. Look here, Freddy, you may have guessed—I don’t
know whether you have or not. Greta is Margot Standing.’

Freddy’s exclamation of astonishment sounded so natural that Charles
started.

‘No! Not really!’

‘Freddy—’ Margaret’s voice sank low and troubled—‘_Freddy!_ Margot
Standing—Grey Mask—did you know there was anything?’

Freddy said ‘Hush!’ in a shocked breath.

‘Did you? Freddy, did you know that they wanted her _removed_? Freddy,
I’m so dreadfully frightened.’

Margaret had sunk into the chair beside the writing-table. She leaned
across the corner of the table now and caught at Freddy’s hand.

‘You told me it was political. I believed you until the other day.’

‘My dear.’

‘Freddy—I believed you.’ She looked up at him through a mist of tears.
‘Freddy, Charles was in his house the day you were ill and sent me to
the meeting there. He—heard things. He heard things about Margot. He
heard them say she must be _removed_ if her mother’s marriage
certificate were found—they talked about a street accident. He heard
them. If he hadn’t seen me, he would have called in the police then and
there. I wish—I _wish_ he had, for I’m desperately afraid about
Margot.’

‘Now my dear.’ Freddy was patting her hand. She pulled it away with a
jerk.

‘I think they’ve got hold of her. You’ll help—won’t you?’ Charles could
hear how her voice shook. ‘Freddy, she’s only a child really—just a
pretty baby. You liked her. You _can_ help if you will, because you know
where to find _him_.’ The last word came with a gasp.

Freddy Pelham had turned away. He put his hands over his eyes and did
not speak.

‘Freddy, you did like her. You’ll help.’

‘What can I do?’

‘You can go to them.’

‘No, no.’

‘You must go to them, or else—’ her voice fell and steadied—‘I must go
to the police.’

Charles heard a sudden sharp exclamation—protest, terror; then
Margaret, very steady:

‘If there’s no other way, I must.’

Freddy spoke, terror rushing into panic.

‘Don’t be a fool! Charles likes her—do you want him to like her? Aren’t
you—fond of him yourself? Let her go. What does it matter to you? Do
you want him to fall in love with her? Are you going to ruin yourself
and me—and me, to give Charles an heiress? Is that what you’re going to
do?’

‘Don’t!’

‘If it’s ruin for me, you’re in it too. Don’t forget that!’

Charles knew the mockery of that shaking craven voice.

‘Yes—I know. But I can’t let that child be hurt.’ A strange passion
came into her voice. ‘I ought to have done it before—I see that now.
But I didn’t know the risk she was running—I didn’t—not till the other
night. Freddy, that bus—it wasn’t an accident. She was pushed. Freddy,
who pushed her?’

With every word she spoke Charles Moray’s agony of apprehension was
heightened. He was helpless, voiceless, dead already; and he had to see
Margaret draw nearer step by step to the pit into which he himself had
fallen. That she was lost from the moment she mentioned the police, he
was persuaded; and to listen whilst Freddy played with her, used her to
torture him, was the last indignity of pain.

‘Who pushed her?’

He heard Margaret say that, and then silence fell—a long, cold silence.
He did not see Freddy Pelham’s hand drop down upon his knee. He did not
see the mockery that looked out of Freddy Pelham’s eyes.

Margaret saw these things. Only a yard away from her there sat someone
whom she had never known, someone whose eyes gave her an unbelievable
answer to the question she had asked. The silence went on. Margaret’s
very heart was cold with it. She began slowly to believe that
unbelievable answer; she began to believe the other things which the
silence and those horrible eyes were telling her. She would have been
very glad to faint, but her mind was clear and steady; it was her heart
that was numb with pain.

After a very long time Charles heard her say ‘Oh!’ The sound broke
something, for immediately Freddy Pelham laughed.

‘So you’ve answered your very naïve question for yourself. As your
friend Archie would say, you’ve got it in one. I was aware that Miss
Greta Wilson was Margot Standing. And when she so obligingly prattled at
my dinner table about a certificate she had found, I thought myself
justified in taking a slight personal risk when an exceptionally
favourable opportunity presented itself. I reached behind you and at the
critical moment I pushed her. If you hadn’t interfered, she would have
been very neatly disposed of.’

Margaret sprang to her feet.

‘You’re mad! You don’t know what you’re saying!’

‘People are always mad when they run counter to the established order.
I’ve been very successfully mad for twenty years. I have had very few
failures, and not one disaster. I am, in fact, a successful madman.’ His
tone was coldly amused.

‘Who are you?’ said Margaret. Even her voice shrank.

Charles could guess at the horror in her eyes. He could guess at
Freddy’s smile.

‘Don’t you know?’

‘No.’ It was just a breath.

Freddy Pelham put his hand in his pocket and drew out a small automatic
pistol.

‘I’m afraid you will have to pay the penalty for knowing that I am Grey
Mask,’ he said.




                              Chapter XLII


The room was silent. Charles could hear nothing, see nothing. He
strained, and heard only the horrid beat of his own pulses.

Margaret’s hands had fallen on the back of the chair by which she stood.
It was a heavy mahogany chair with an old-fashioned horse-hair seat. Her
hands closed on the smooth mahogany in the hard grip that felt nothing.
The pillars of her house had fallen. She stood in the disaster and held
blindly to the nearest thing that offered support. The shock was too
great for crying out; it struck her dumb. She saw the pistol and the
cruelty in Freddy’s eyes. She hoped he would shoot quickly. It was too
horrible. She hoped he would shoot quickly.

He did not shoot. He balanced the pistol in his hand and laughed.

‘I’m glad you didn’t scream. Marvellous self-control! If you had
screamed, I should have had to shoot you at once—and that would have
been a pity. I should like—’ his voice slipped back into the hesitating
voice that she had always known—‘I should really like now to have a
little talk with you first, my dear—a comfortable talk—what?’

Margaret drew a long, deep, shuddering breath, and he laughed again.

‘Not any louder than that please.’ It was Grey Mask speaking. ‘I don’t
want to have to put an end to our little party just as we’re all really
beginning to enjoy ourselves—but I’m forgetting you’re not aware that
it is a party. They say three isn’t company; but it does so depend on
the three. Doesn’t it? Now you and I and Charles—’

Margaret said ‘Oh!’ It was a quick involuntary cry.

Freddy Pelham took her by the shoulder. She had not known that there
could be so much strength in his fingers.

‘You haven’t said how d’you do to Charles,’ he said. ‘Come along and
have a look at him. He’s been having a most entertaining time, and so
have I. It’s time you had a share in the fun. Let go of that chair!’
This last was a sharp command with a sort of snarling fury behind it
that was quite sudden and very daunting.

Then in an instant, as Margaret’s rigid fingers still held on to the
mahogany rail, he struck her across the knuckles with the little pistol.
The blow cut the skin.

Charles heard her gasp and catch her breath. The next moment the sofa
was pulled aside. Freddy was grinning at him, and Margaret looking,
looking with her bruised hands at her breast and sheer heartbreak in her
eyes. She said ‘Charles’ and again ‘Charles’ very faintly; and the ‘Is
he—’ and long, long pause before her failing voice said, ‘dead?’

‘Not yet,’ said Freddy.

Margaret cried out and wrenched away from him.

‘Steady now—steady! If you make a noise, I shall have to shoot him
here—and now. You can look, but you mustn’t touch. He’s a lovely
sight—isn’t he? You needn’t be alarmed by the blood on the side of his
head—it’s a mere scratch and won’t interfere in the least with his
enjoyment of the next few days. I’m not going to hurt either of you, you
know, unless you positively oblige me to—I’m only going to leave you in
a comfortable dry cellar where you may, or may not, be found when the
ninety-nine-year lease of this house has fallen in, in—let me see, it
is seventy or seventy-one years’ time from now—I’m really not quite
sure.’

Margaret turned on him with a courage which stirred Charles Moray’s
pride.

‘Freddy, you’re not well. You—what are you saying? Freddy—_think_!’

Freddy Pelham let his amused gaze touch first one and then the other of
them.

‘My dear Margaret, it will save trouble if you will realize that you are
not dealing with an amiable stepfather who has suddenly gone mad, but
with a man of intelligence who has built up a most successful business
and is prepared to remove anyone who endangers it. Though I dislike you
both acutely, I should never have lifted a finger against either of you
if you had not foolishly threatened me with the police. I never mix
business and pleasure. It will save time if you realize this. As an
illustration, I may tell you that the cellar of which I spoke just now
was the reason for my buying this house, and for my continuing to stay
here all these years. It has often been—exceedingly useful. It was
constructed by the eccentric Sir Joseph Tunney in 1795. I came across a
reference in an old book of memoirs which caused me to buy this house
when it came into the market. When I say that not even your mother has
ever suspected the existence of this extra cellar, you will admit that
Sir Joseph Tunney was a highly ingenious person. Why, Mark Dupre was
there for a fortnight, with the police scouring the country for him, and
not a soul ever suspected where he had been. He was wise enough to pay
up, and when we had collected the money, he was found—as perhaps you
remember—on the top of Hindhead in his pyjamas without the slightest
idea of how he got there.’

Margaret had been falling slowly back step by step with her hands out
before her as if to keep something away. As Freddy finished speaking,
she sank down in the chair by the writing-table, flung out her arms
across the scattered papers, and bowed her head upon them.

‘Well now, we’ll go down and look at the cellar—what?’

The reappearance of the old Freddy was the last touch of horror.
Margaret cried out and lifted her head.

‘Freddy—there’s one thing,—Freddy—mother—will you tell me the truth?
What happened? Is she—dead?’

He stiffened.

‘That’s a very extraordinary thing to say. What makes you ask a thing
like that?’

‘An old friend—I met an old friend of hers. She said—she said—she’d
seen her a fortnight ago in Vienna. I thought—’ Her voice died as he
looked at her.

‘Who is this—friend?’

‘I shan’t tell you. She only saw her for an instant. She didn’t speak to
her. Freddy, _tell_ me!’ Her fingers clasped and unclasped themselves,
tearing a piece of paper to shreds. ‘Freddy, _tell_ me!’

‘Who is this friend?’

She shook her head.

‘You don’t know her. She doesn’t know anything. She thinks it was a
likeness. Please, _please_ tell me.’

‘What does it matter to you now? On the other hand, it doesn’t really
matter to me; so, as it happens, I don’t mind telling you. Esther is
alive—or was three days ago when her last letter to me was posted.’

‘_Alive!_’ The word came with a rush.

‘I’ve already told you that it makes no difference to you. It’s very
irrational of you to feel any pleasure in a matter which won’t concern
you in the least.’

Margaret said ‘_Alive!_’ again. This time the word was only a whisper.

Freddy Pelham began to walk up and down the room.

‘Yes, she’s alive. If even the strongest of us hadn’t got his weakness,
she wouldn’t be alive. She’s been my danger always—_always_.’ He
repeated the word with a certain fierce energy. ‘A man in my line of
business should never allow himself a serious affair with a woman—it’s
dangerous. You needn’t think of me as a fool who gave way to a weakness.
No, I always knew that she was my danger point, and I ran the risk
deliberately, because she was the only woman I have ever met who was
worth it, and because I felt myself strong enough to surmount the
danger.’

Margaret’s eyes rested on him with a horrified surprise. Was this
Freddy?

He went on talking all the time in a low, hard tone:

‘I risked it, and I risked it successfully until six months ago. Then
she discovered something. If she had been an ordinary woman, I could
have put her off—you know how quick she is. Besides I was not
altogether sorry. One gets a little tired of acting the poor fool whose
only merit is his capacity for humble adoration. I welcomed the chance
of showing myself to Esther as I really was.’ He paused, stood in the
middle of the room looking down at the pistol in his hand. ‘I ought to
have ended it at once when I found how unreasonable she was. Instead, I
went back to my acting—I played the penitent—and ye gods, how women do
revel in forgiveness! She produced a plan she considered a stroke of
genius—we would go abroad, making her health the excuse. I was to
renounce my profession and any profits derived from it. A deliciously
feminine piece of impracticability. Well, we went abroad. I allowed
Esther to think that she was choosing our route. As a matter of fact, I
had a plan of my own. I have for some years possessed a charming estate
in eastern Europe. I took Esther there by car. She had no idea of where
she was when we got there. Fortune played into my hands; she fell ill
after a scene in which I explained my plan to her. Then, I must confess,
I displayed weakness. I did not accept what chance offered me. I found
myself unable to do so—I found that I could not contemplate life
without her. It was a weakness. I temporized. I sent telegrams
announcing her death. At one moment I hoped that she would die; at the
next I drove three hundred miles to fetch a doctor. In the end she
lived. I left her in trustworthy hands and came back. If I found that I
could live without her, she could still be removed. If I was unable to
conquer this foolish weakness of mine, she could remain in seclusion,
and I could so arrange my affairs as to be able to go backwards and
forwards. This morning—’ He stopped, looked down at the pistol with a
cold, furious stare, and then went on quickly: ‘This morning I heard
from her—from Vienna. She had made her way there—how, I shall make it
my business to find out. She could not have got away except by
treachery—it was impossible. She writes that she is well—that there
are things she does not understand—that she is waiting in Vienna for a
personal explanation. I propose to give her one that will remove all
further danger from my path.’

Margaret turned her eyes from his face. Another moment, and she would
have screamed aloud. She caught at the arm of her chair and stood up.
She was trembling very much. As Freddy came towards her, she went back
step by step, her hands behind her, until she reached the window. She
touched the edge of the blind.

Freddy levelled his pistol.

‘If you lift that blind or call out, I’ll shoot.’

She shook her head, leaning there with half-closed eyes as if she were
about to faint.

‘Come away from that window at once! Do you hear? One—’ he wheeled
suddenly and aimed at Charles—‘two—’

Margaret ran forward sobbing and catching her breath.

‘No—no—_no_!’

He caught her roughly by the arm.

‘We’ve had enough of this. Come along! Walk in front of me to the door
and open it! Remember if you make one sound, it’ll be your last.’

He turned and took an electric torch from a shelf.

Charles saw the door opened. As Margaret passed through it, he thought,
with a frightful stab of pain, that he had seen her face for the last
time. She looked over her shoulder just before the door swung in and hid
her from his sight. He strained with all his might against his bonds,
only to realize that he was exhausting himself uselessly. He lay still,
and suffered for Margaret. The sudden break in her self-control, the
pitiful sobbing—if only she had not broken down—if only her fine pride
had held to the last. Charles Moray remembered that he had wished to see
it broken.

He remembered all the times she had looked pale, and he had been angry,
and all the times she had been sad and he had been cruel. And he
remembered that he might have comforted her, and he had not. And now it
was too late. He could not tell her now that he had loved her all the
time—he could never tell her now. He had meant to tell her. He had
meant to kiss the sorrow from her eyes and the sadness from her lips. He
had meant to hold her close and hear her say, ‘Forgive—forgive the
years I stole’... It was too late.

Half-way down the stairs Margaret sank down. The hand on her shoulder
closed in a bruising grip and jerked her to her feet. They passed out of
the hall and through the door leading to the basement. Margaret’s steps
faltered; she had to lean against the wall. The hand on her shoulder
forced her on and down.

In the basement, the empty kitchen and other offices; and at the back, a
small flight of steps that led to the cellars, three in number—one for
coal, one full of packing-cases, and the third a locked wine-cellar.

Freddy Pelham unlocked the door. There was a good deal of wine in the
bins and, at the far end, a cask or two and some more packing-cases. He
shut and locked the door on the inside, and then proceeded to shift one
of the casks and to move the packing-cases.

A low, stout wooden door barred with iron came into view behind them. It
was barely three feet high, and was secured by three strong bolts.

Freddy shot them back.

‘When I bought the house, all this was very cleverly
hidden—match-boarding and whitewash—very clever indeed. Without the
information which I had extracted from an otherwise extraordinarily dry
book of memoirs I should never have found it, and you wouldn’t be here.
Let us praise the pious memory of Sir Joseph Tunney.’

He pushed the door, which opened inwards. A horrible darkness showed
beyond. He stood back with the mockery of a bow.

‘It’s perfectly dry, and on the warm side. Your last hours should be
quite comfortable.’

Margaret leaned against the packing-cases.

‘And if I won’t?’

‘I shoot you here and push you into that most convenient vault. In with
you!’

‘Freddy—’ The word died on her lips. There was nothing to appeal to.
There wasn’t any Freddy. There was only Grey Mask.

She had to bend almost double to pass that horrible low door. Freddy’s
torch threw a dancing ray beyond her into the darkness. Her head swam as
she watched it flicker. The rough floor seemed to tilt and tremble. Her
foot slipped and she fell forward. Behind her the door slammed and she
heard the bolts go home. The flickering ray was gone. It was dark.




                             Chapter XLIII


Margaret lay where she had fallen. The strength had gone out of her. She
lay quite still and strained for any sound from beyond the bolted door.
There wasn’t any sound. She could not hear Freddy’s retreating footsteps
or the opening and closing of the wine-cellar door. She could not hear
anything at all. The place was soundless, lightless, utterly cut off.
The warm, heavy air weighed on her with a deadening pressure. She kept
her eyes shut so that she could not see how dark it was. Minutes passed.

It was a very little thing that roused her. Her left hand lay on a sharp
point in the uneven floor, and a good part of her weight rested on this
hand. The pressure became unbearable. She moved, shuddered, and sat up.

Instantly she wished that she had not moved, that she had let the sharp
point prick her to the bone. The darkness of the place was dreadful. In
every direction there was a gloom so dense that it seemed to forbid
movement and breath as well as sight. Only thought remained—Charles.
Was she to die alone in the dark? What had happened to Charles? Would
she ever know? What was happening? The door and the darkness were
between her and the answer to all the terrified throng of thoughts that
clamoured to know.

She covered her face with her hands and bent her head upon her knees.
She mustn’t let herself lose grip. Grey Mask couldn’t touch them really.
Nothing could touch you as long as you held on—not darkness, nor
silence, nor anything that anyone could do. She stopped minding the
dark.

It seemed to be a very long time before a sound reached her. It came
suddenly, harshly, as the bolts ran back and the door swung in.

She sat up, her heart beating violently, and saw the beam from Freddy’s
torch cutting across the corner of the nearest packing-case. The wood
was rough and splintered. The beam gave each splinter its own black
shadow, then, shifting, touched Charles Moray’s foot. His ankles had
been untied. He seemed to be leaning against the case. Behind him,
Freddy spoke:

‘Pride goes before a fall. Get down and get in! I haven’t any more time
to spare for either of you. Get inside!’

Margaret was filled with a curious trembling joy. Charles was here.
Whatever happened, they were going to be together. She drew back and saw
him come through the low doorway bent double. Suddenly he pitched
forward as Freddy thrust at him from behind.

Margaret gave a sharp cry of pain, and had the light flashed full upon
her face.

‘Well, well,’ said Freddy Pelham, ‘you can now make the most of your
time together. You can break your finger-nails trying to undo my knots,
and when you’ve got them undone, you’ll be just as far from getting out
of this as you were before. It may save you a good deal of trouble if I
tell you that this place is absolutely sound-proof. You won’t even hear
me lock the wine-cellar door as I go out, and from the other side of
that door I shouldn’t hear a sound if you were shouting through a
megaphone. There are eight feet of earth between you and the garden, and
six men couldn’t break down the door. I don’t know what old Joe Tunney
used this cellar for; but I know what we’ve used it for, and it has
stood the test every time. The ventilation is quite adequate and rather
ingenious.’

He shifted the torch and allowed it to light up his wrist watch for an
instant.

‘I must be going. I have still a few things to do, and I have to be up
early. Perhaps it may solace you tomorrow to think of my flying to
Vienna. With any luck we shall get above the fog. You can think of me
bathed in sunshine. There was an old-fashioned song which I remember an
aunt of mine used to sing very charmingly:

            “For I am content to abide in the shadow
            So long as the sunshine falls brightly on thee.”

In Vienna—I have an account to square.’ His voice had changed; the
words came slowly; there were strange undertones of reluctance, effort,
fear. Grey Mask’s one weakness was a weakness still. It was not the
least of Esther Brandon’s many triumphs.

With a quick jerk Freddy Pelham slammed the door on them. The bolts were
shot with violence.

Margaret listened as she had done before, and heard no further sound.
She put out her hand and groped for Charles. And then a dreadful thought
struck her rigid. Suppose Freddy hadn’t really gone. Suppose he were
just waiting there on the other side of the door to see what they would
do—listening, waiting, ready to break in on them and snatch away their
little lingering hope.

She crept to the door, laid her ear against the crack, and listened with
such an intensity that it seemed to her as if she must hear every sound
in the world.

She could hear nothing.

Then in the dark beside her Charles Moray moved, struggling into a
sitting position. Instantly she forgot Freddy. Still on her knees, she
turned; her arm flung out, struck against his shoulder and came about
him in a movement astonishingly full of protecting strength. She began
to whisper to him:

‘Charles—are you all right? I’ll get this dreadful thing out of your
mouth—if I were only sure he’d gone—do you think it’s safe?
Wait—wait—just a minute—whilst I listen again. Are you all right?
Move your head if you are.’

She felt it move, and turned back to the door. Not a sound—not one
smallest sound. After all, why should he wait? He wouldn’t wait—he
would want to get away.

She turned round again.

‘I think it’s all right. He’d want to get away. I want you to lean
against me—yes, like that—so that I can feel just where you are. I
came straight from the shop, so I’ve got my scissors. I’ve been thinking
of them all the time. I can cut that horrible bandage, only you must
keep awfully still.’

The fingers of her right hand went to her coat, unbuttoning it. The
scissors hung at her side, a good strong pair, really made for use. She
cut through the ribbon that held them, and then, shielding the point
with a very careful finger, guided them to where the bandage crossed his
left ear. The gag had been tied on with a silk handkerchief. Once the
point was under the tight fold, it was easily cut.

Charles had never experienced a more blessed relief. He coughed,
spluttered, and spat out the gag—another handkerchief by the feel of
it. Margaret was fingering the rope at his wrists. This was silk
too—one of those heavy cords that are used to loop back the
old-fashioned type of curtain. The knots might have defied her, but the
strands were soon cut through.

‘That’s great!’

He stretched his arms, then felt his head gingerly.

‘Are you all right? Charles—’

‘Right as rain.’

‘Ssh! Perhaps he’s still there. He mustn’t hear you speak. Do you think
he’s gone?’

‘My dear, what does it matter?’

‘He—why did you say that?’

Charles put his arm round her.

‘We’d better face it, old girl. We’re through. If he came back and shot
us, it would be quicker.’

She did not speak for a minute. She did not speak, because for a long
minute she was too happy to speak. She leaned against Charles in the
darkness and felt his arm about her, very strong, very steady. Nothing
seemed to matter.

The arm about her tightened.

‘Margaret!’

She turned her face to him.

‘Margaret—we’re together!’

‘Yes—’ The word was a sighing breath.

‘I’ve been an utter beast to you. I—I loved you all the time.’

He felt her draw away.

‘I thought—you loved Greta.’

‘Good Lord! I’m not a nursemaid! The creature’s about five years old!
You didn’t really think so!’

‘I did.’

‘My darling idiot!’

He kissed her.

‘Do you think so now—now—_now_? Why are you crying—Meg?’

Margaret hid her face against him.

‘Because I’m so—happy.’

There was a blessed silence. The cellar, the darkness, the desperate,
hopeless state in which they stood, were just the outer shadow which
could not touch them. Margaret, at least, was in some joyful place of
heart’s desire, the haven which she had longed for and never hoped to
see.

To Charles the shadow was a visible menace. He spoke first:

‘They’ll look for us—they’re bound to look for us.’

But even at the sound of his own words his heart sank. They might look;
but how would they ever find them here?

‘If we’d a light. Do you know how big this place is?’

‘No. I don’t think there’s any way out, or he wouldn’t have left us.
But, Charles, they _will_ look for us.’

‘Did anyone know you were coming here?’

‘One of the girls at the shop did. I told her I was going to say goodbye
to my stepfather. And—and Archie knew—’ She stopped, trying to
remember exactly what she had said to Archie.

‘What?’

‘I’m trying to think. I said—yes, I’m sure I only said—I didn’t
mention Freddy’s name—I told Archie to go to the police. And he didn’t
want to. Did he know about me?’

‘I told him last night. It seems about a hundred years ago. What did you
say to him?’

‘I said there was someone who might know where Greta was. Oh, Charles, I
wonder where she is?’

‘Is that all you said?’

‘I think so. But if he was to ask at the shop, they might think—’

‘This place is so damnably well hidden.’

‘Charles, I want to tell you—does it make it worse for you to hope? I
_do_ think there’s _some_ hope.’

‘Where?’

To Charles there seemed to be no hope at all.

‘Because—I’ll tell you—you know when I was sitting at the table up
there in the study—I was desperate—I felt I must do something after he
said that about the cellars. I don’t know if you could see me. I had my
arms on the table, and I put my head down and pretended I was crying. I
wasn’t crying. I’d seen a pencil, and I got it in my fingers and wrote
on a bit of paper. I wrote “Cellars—C and M.” I kept the paper in the
palm of my hand. I’d thought what I would do—it was just a chance, but
it was the only thing I could think of. All the time he was talking and
walking up and down, I was trying to think. And I tore up some little
bits of paper quite small and kept them in my other hand. When I went
back to the window as if I was frightened—oh, I _was_ frightened—I
didn’t have to pretend—I was horribly frightened—because I thought
he’d shoot you if he found out—I—’

‘What did you do?’ said Charles quickly.

‘I stuck the paper on the glass—on the window-pane. I’d sucked my
finger and made it wet, and stuck the paper on the glass—the bit I’d
written on. I wasn’t sure if it would stick, but it did. It’s only a
chance, but if he doesn’t find it, they will.’

Charles held her tight.

‘It’s behind the blind?’

‘Yes.’

‘He won’t pull up the blind. Why should he? I don’t believe he’ll find
it. Archie’s bound to come here. Margaret—darling—darling—darling—I
believe you’ve saved us!’

‘I couldn’t think of anything else except—except—I dropped a little
bit of paper on the stairs, and here and there on the way down to the
basement, and one at the wine-cellar door, and two or three where the
packing-cases are hiding this little door. I had to chance his seeing
them. But he only had a torch. I thought I was bound to risk it. Do you
think—do you really think they’ll find us?’

A cold revulsion sobered Charles. The hope which had carried him away
offered so much. It gave him happiness, love—and Margaret. He was
afraid to look at what it offered him.

‘I—don’t—know,’ he said.




                              Chapter XLIV


Long hours of the night—very long—very dark.

Charles explored the cellar and found it about twelve feet square. There
was no sign of any other opening. He lifted Margaret as high as he could
hold her. She could just touch the roof.

Later he broke her scissors in a vain attempt to dig through the wall
into the wine-cellar; the points slid and broke on very hard cement. The
door itself would have withstood a battering ram. There was nothing for
it but to wait.

They talked. There was so much to talk about. And then, quite suddenly,
Margaret fell asleep with his arm about her and her head against his
shoulder. The air was heavy and rather warm; it had the curious smell of
underground places where no light ever comes. Presently Charles slept
too.

He awoke with a consuming thirst; and as he moved, Margaret stirred and
woke too. Her little cry of surprise cut him to the heart. She had
forgotten. Now she must remember and face a black day of dwindling hope.
In those night hours Charles had come to think their chance of being
discovered a very slender one indeed.

Margaret said, ‘I’d forgotten—I was dreaming.’ A little shuddering
laughter shook her. ‘It felt so real—a great deal more real than this.
I suppose—Charles, I suppose _this_ isn’t the dream?’

If it were. If they could wake up and be together in the light. Charles
put his face against hers.

‘What did you dream, Meg?’

‘I don’t know—it’s gone. It was something—happy. You were there. We
were frightfully happy.’

If they could wake up. He held her hard for a minute. Then his clasp
relaxed, and he said with sudden violence.

‘That little devil must be starting.’

‘Is it morning?’

‘Yes—seven o’clock—quite light outside.’

A most terrible longing for the light swept over Margaret. She had a
picture of the grey morning, and an aeroplane rising higher and higher
until the sunlight struck the wings and made them shine. She cried out:

‘I can’t bear it! Charles, if they don’t come today—if they don’t come
soon, he’ll get there—he’ll get to Vienna! And she doesn’t know—she’ll
be waiting for him, and she doesn’t know!’

‘We’re all in the same boat, my dear.’

‘I can’t bear it!’ There were tears in her voice. ‘It’s so awful not to
be able to do anything. When I think that she’s alive, I want to sing
for joy; and when I think of him—getting nearer and nearer, and no one
to warn her, I—I—_Charles_!’

She clung to him in a passion of bitter weeping.

‘She’s got more chance than we have, darling.’ The blunt fact came out
bluntly. ‘In a sort of a way he cares for her, and—they may find us,
you know.’

Margaret’s passion sank strangely into calm.

‘You don’t think they will.’

Charles Moray was silent.




                              Chapter XLV


‘Miss Silver! Thank Heaven!’

Miss Maud Silver looked mildly at an agitated young man. She took a
latch-key from a neat capacious bag and opened her office door.

‘Come in, Mr Millar.’

Archie came in, flung his hat on a chair, and rumpled his hair
violently.

‘I’ve been walkin’ up and down waitin’ for you till I thought I should
go mad.’

‘_Dear me_, Mr Millar—and why?’

‘Where’s Charles Moray?’

Miss Silver paused in the act of taking off a long drab raincoat.

‘I really have no idea.’

‘Where’s Margaret Langton?’

‘Mr Millar—what do you mean?’

‘I mean they’ve disappeared—that’s what I mean. I’ve been trying to get
on to Charles since two o’clock yesterday. He’s never been back to his
hotel. I went to Miss Langton’s flat last night, and she wasn’t there,
and she hasn’t been to work. What’s happened?’

A faint, fleeting smile just touched Miss Silver’s face.

‘They might have gone away together.’

‘Don’t you believe it! Somethin’ has happened. Now look here! Charles
went down to his house yesterday afternoon and stayed there till it was
dusk sortin’ papers—I’ve seen the housekeeper. He let himself out by
the garden way, and nobody’s seen him since.’

‘And Miss Langton?’

‘I’d just been seein’ her when I rang you up yesterday. I was all worked
up about Miss Standing. Miss Langton told me to go to the police. I
didn’t want to do that.’ Archie hesitated; he wasn’t sure how much Miss
Silver knew. ‘There were reasons for not bringing the police into it.’

Miss Silver gave her little cough.

‘I am aware of that. It was, if I may say so, exceedingly courageous of
Miss Langton to suggest your going to the police. But—’ she coughed
again—‘have you considered the probability that she has disappeared as
a consequence of that suggestion?’

Archie nodded.

‘I thought about it.’

‘Mr Moray may have taken her away.’

‘I don’t think so, because, you see, I said I wouldn’t go to the
police.’

‘You said you wouldn’t go to the police?’

‘Not till we’d tried everythin’ else. And Margaret said there was
someone who might know where Greta—where Miss Standing was. She said
she’d go and see this person as soon as ever she got off, and she
promised to ring me up at my cousin’s. Well, she never rang me up at my
cousin’s. And she never went back to her flat. And it seems to me she
might have seen this fellow, whoever he was, and he might have cut up
rough.’

‘On the other hand, he might have known that Miss Standing was safe. And
Miss Langton may, as I suggested before, have thought it wiser to
disappear—there have been several arrests.’

‘She’d have rung me up,’ said Archie doggedly. ‘She said she’d ring me
up, and she’d have done it. Don’t you believe she’s disappeared of her
own free will—she _hasn’t_. I’m very worried about her, and I’m goin’
on worryin’ other people till I find her.’

Miss Silver took the brown exercise book, turned to a blank page, and
wrote. In a moment she looked up.

‘Yes?’

‘I went down to Sauterelle’s this mornin’—that’s Miss Langton’s
hat-shop. I asked to speak to the other girls—bit of a V. C. job
that—and one of them says Margaret told her she was goin’ off to say
goodbye to her stepfather. Look here, Miss Silver—it’s damned
ridiculous, but I can’t get it out of my head—Margaret’s stepfather is
Freddy Pelham. He lives in a house in George Street. The gardens run
down to the gardens of Thornhill Square, with just an alley-way between
them. Margaret went to say goodbye to Freddy Pelham at six o’clock.
Charles came out of his house in Thornhill Square at somewhere about
five. He came out by the garden way. That’s to say he was within fifty
yards or so of Freddy Pelham’s back gate. Supposin’ he went up to say
goodbye to Freddy Pelham too? Margaret went, and she hasn’t come back.
Charles hasn’t come back either. It’s _damned_ ridiculous, but I can’t
get it out of my head that old Charles may have gone there too.’

‘There are other explanations,’ said Miss Silver. Then she coughed and
asked abruptly:

‘Where is Mr Pelham?’

‘Gone abroad. I told you Margaret was sayin’ goodbye to him. Left this
mornin’ by aeroplane. Address _poste restante_, Paris—and a fat lot of
good that is!’

Miss Silver tapped with her pencil.

‘Are you suggesting that we should apply for a search warrant?’

‘No, I’m not. I’m suggestin’ doin’ a little job of breakin’ and
enterin’. Look here, Miss Silver, are you game? I’m suggestin’ you and
me goin’ boldly in by the garden door and openin’ a window with a
skeleton key, or chisel, or what not. Unless Freddy’s done somethin’
drastic since I used to play in and out of the garden with Charles and
Margaret, there’ll be some odd window I can get through. The question
is, are you game?’

‘I’ve my reputation to consider,’ said Miss Silver. She coughed. ‘If I
were walking along George Street and were to ring Mr Pelham’s bell—’
she paused and gazed at him mildly. ‘If you opened the door to me, it
really would not be any business of mine how you got in.’

‘Right! I do the breakin’, and you do the enterin’. Come along!’

Three-quarters of an hour later Mr Millar crawled through a scullery
window. It was a tight fit, and there was broken glass about; his
clothes sustained some damage. He dusted himself, wondered why a
scullery always smelt of cabbage, and proceeded upstairs, where he
reconnoitred George Street through a hole in the drawing-room shutters.
Miss Silver, in her drab raincoat and old-fashioned turban toque, was
walking slowly along the opposite pavement. She held a newspaper in her
hand.

Archie proceeded to the front door and oscillated the brass flap of the
letter-box.

Miss Silver crossed the road and rang the bell.

The door was secured by bolts at top and bottom. They creaked a good
deal. Archie opened the door with a flourish, and Miss Silver came in.
As soon as the door was shut, she turned to Archie as if she were about
to speak; then suddenly changed her mind. Instead she folded the
newspaper and put it into her bag.

They went together into the drawing-room. The closed shutters made a
gloom there. Miss Silver took a torch from the pocket of her raincoat.

After ten minutes they went to the dining-room, and then up the stairs.
About half-way to the study Miss Silver stooped and picked up a little
piece of torn paper. It was just such a piece as might be torn from the
corner of a letter. She flashed the light to and fro, but found nothing
more.

The study was not so dark as the drawing-room; there were no shutters
here, and the maroon curtains had not been drawn. A light blind reaching
to within an inch of the floor screened the long french window.

Archie went over to the window and released the blind. As it left his
hand, Miss Silver called to him:

‘Mr Millar—come here.’

He came quickly. He had not thought that placid voice could be shaken.
Most undeniably it shook now.

‘Mr Millar—look!’

She pointed, and Archie looked. At about the level of his shoulder the
woodwork at the side of the door was cracked. The edge of the jamb
showed a small semi-circular furrow, the wall behind a neat round hole.

Archie gave a faint whistle of dismay.

‘A bullet hole, by gum!’

‘I think so. I think the bullet’s in the wall. I trust he missed
whatever he was aiming at.’

She walked over to the table, stooping on her way to pick up another
torn scrap of paper. This one lay near the chair which was drawn close
up to the side of the table. She stood for a moment, small grey eyes
intent, hands clasped on the old-fashioned reticule she always carried.
Then she leaned over the table.

Half a dozen little bits of paper lay amongst Freddy Pelham’s letters,
just as they had slipped from Margaret’s hand.

Miss Silver nodded, straightened up, and looked about her. The table
stood a couple of yards from the window. She looked across it and saw
the garden sloping to the alley-way. The trees had a mournful, drooping
look, half their leaves gone, and those that were left to them poor,
torn, draggled survivals. She saw the ugly spirals of the iron
balustrade guarding the garden stairs. She saw the long window between
heavy, maroon curtains, one looped back, the other hanging straight. And
she saw a piece of white paper lying at the foot of the straight
curtain.

She went over, picked it up, and held it out at Archie.

‘Well, Mr Millar, you were right. They’re here.’

Margaret had stuck her piece of paper on the glass, but as it dried, it
had fallen.

Archie read the scrawled pencil message:

‘Cellars—C. and M.’

He read it, turned to stare at the hole Freddy Pelham’s bullet had made,
and once more whistled softly.

‘What’s it mean?’

‘We shall doubtless find out. Perhaps you know the way to the cellars. I
think we had better go there at once.’

She was through the door before she finished speaking. Archie followed.

At the door leading to the basement Miss Silver found another piece of
paper. She coughed approvingly.

‘It’s a pleasure to work with anyone so intelligent.’

‘I say, that’s awfully nice of you!’

‘I was not referring to you, Mr Millar. Miss Langton must be a highly
intelligent person, even for a woman.’

They went down into the basement, and farther down to where three cellar
doors opened upon a dark flagged passage.

‘These two always were open,’ said Archie. ‘Freddy liked messin’ about
and doin’ a bit of carpentering in this one, and the other’s for coal.
The third’s the wine-cellar.’ He tried the door. ‘It’s locked all
right.’ He rattled the latch and shouted:

‘Hello—ello—_ello_! Charles! Are you there? Is anyone there?’

A booming echo came rolling back along the low roof. It said ‘There’,
and ‘Charles’, and died. Something fell with a clang.

Miss Silver turned her torch down, picked up a metal bar, and put it
into Archie’s hand.

‘What is it?’

‘Well,’ said Miss Silver—she gave a slight cough— ‘I believe it is
called a jemmy—an instrument in use amongst burglars. I, of course,
have my reputation to consider. But if you—’ she coughed again. ‘It
really seems quite providential—doesn’t it?’

‘Heaven helps those who help themselves, in fact,’ responded Archie.

Miss Silver proceeded to give him expert advice as to lock-breaking.

The silence of the inner cell had not been stirred. It settled heavily
and more heavily still. It was half an hour since Charles had spoken and
Margaret answered him. Their torment of thirst had begun. It was long
past midday, and hope waned as the light wanes after sunset. Their sun
had set. The little light of hope that had remained failed and was
forgotten. They were forgotten in a dark, hidden place out of mind.

The first sound was faint. It jarred that settling silence—but so
faintly that it might have been some ghostly mirage of sound, causeless
and unreal.

Margaret stirred, moved her hand to meet Charles Moray’s hand, and
turned her head to say on a whispering breath,

‘Charles—’

His hand pressed hers.

‘Did you hear it?’

‘Yes.’

‘Charles—what was it?’

The silence settled again. That faint sound had reached them when the
wine-cellar door gave way with a crash and set all the underground
echoes calling.

Miss Silver flashed her torch round the well-stocked bins, up to the low
roof, down again to the flagged floor. At the far end a cask or two,
packing-cases, a shred of white torn paper. She picked it up.

‘They’ve been here, Mr Millar. I think we’ll move those casks.’

On the other side of the casks and of that thick, deadening wall
Margaret was listening as she had not listened since Freddy Pelham had
left her in the dark alone. She could hear nothing.

But she had heard something. Suppose they came and went away again. The
thought pierced to the quick. She tried to call out, but the terror of
the thought took away her voice; it failed in a dry throat. She tried to
tell Charles to shout. Her hand clung to his.

And suddenly the door swung in. The silence broke into harsh sound. The
bolts went loudly back, and the door swung in. The noise was
overwhelming. Archie’s shout shook the cellar, and a dancing, flashing
ray struck her eyes like a blow. Darkness closed over her.

When she opened her eyes again, someone was giving her water to drink,
and it was light. She looked at the light and wondered at it. Grey
London light, but how beautiful! She drank again. Water—how lovely!
Light—air—water! She drew a long, long breath, and came back from the
half-way place between dream and waking. She was lying on the sofa in
the study. A little woman in a drab raincoat was holding water to her
lips in a cracked breakfast-cup.

Margaret took another lovely sip and sat up. She saw Charles, dusty,
bloodstained, unshaven, his face smeared and dirtier than anything she
could have imagined. He put down the cup from which he had been
drinking, and came to her and kissed her. It didn’t matter how dirty his
face was. How lovely! How lovely to be alive—to be together! The most
exquisite happiness filled her. She began to cry.

Then all of a sudden she remembered Freddy Pelham, and her mother
waiting in Vienna. She said,

‘Freddy—someone must stop him!’

She sprang up.

‘Charles—it isn’t too late! It isn’t, it _isn’t_ too late—_Archie_!’

She turned to him with outstretched hands, and Archie Millar turned
away.

Charles Moray put his arm about her.

‘Better tell her,’ he said in a low voice—he spoke to Miss Silver.
Then, ‘Margaret—’

Miss Silver spoke in her colourless tones:

‘Miss Langton, your mother is quite safe. Mr Pelham has been—arrested.’

Margaret leaned against Charles. She felt weak and cold. Miss Silver
took her hand and patted it. Her touch was kind.

‘I bought a paper on my way here. Mr Pelham was arrested in his flight.
His aeroplane crashed in the fog. The pilot was picked up by a Channel
boat. Mr Pelham was drowned. Your mother, my dear, is quite safe.’

Margaret tried to say ‘Thank you’. She knew Miss Silver was kind. She
knew that there had been deliverance. But she had come to the end of her
strength.

She turned and hid her face on Charles Moray’s dusty coat.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Part of a letter from Miss Margot Standing to her friend Stephanie:

    ... I’ll tell you all about it at Christmas. We’ll have a lovely
    time. And you shall see Archie. We’re not engaged, because Papa
    says I’m not old enough to be engaged, and Archie says so too.
    Archie’s _frightfully_ in love with me—at least he won’t say he
    is, but I’m sure he _is_. And Papa likes him most frightfully. I
    think I shall have a sapphire ring. But I don’t want to be
    married for simply ages.

    Margaret and Charles are going to be married next week. I would
    love to be Margaret’s bridesmaid, but she isn’t going to have
    any because of her stepfather. He was a nice little man, and I
    expect she’s frightfully sorry about it. He was drowned in an
    aeroplane, so she and Charles aren’t really going to have a
    wedding—they’re just going to be married. I call it
    _frightfully dull_ ...

                                