
I have wrenched my knee, and for the past two weeks my days have
consisted of three trays, two of them here in the library, a nurse at
ten o’clock each morning with a device of infernal origin which is
supposed to bake the pain out of my leg, and my thoughts for company.

But my thinking is cloudy and chaotic. The house is too quiet. I miss
Judy, busy now with affairs of her own, and perhaps I miss the
excitement of the past few months. It is difficult to take an interest
in beef croquettes for luncheon out of last night’s roast when one’s
mind is definitely turned on crime. For that is what I am thinking
about, crime; and major crime at that.

I am thinking about murder. What is the ultimate impulse which drives
the murderer to his kill? Not the motives. One can understand motives.
It is at least conceivable that a man may kill out of violent passion,
or out of fear, or jealousy or revenge. Then too there are the murders
by abnormals, drug addicts or mental deficients; they have their motives
too, of course, although they may lie hidden in distorted minds. And as
in our case, a series of crimes where the motive was hidden but
perfectly real, and where extraordinary precautions had been taken
against discovery.

But I am thinking of something more fundamental than motivation.

What is it that lies behind the final gesture of the killer?

Until then he has been of the race of men. In an instant he will have
forfeited his brotherhood, become one of a group apart, a group of those
who have destroyed human life.

Is there a profound contempt for life itself, for its value or its
importance? Or is the instinct to kill stronger than thought, an
atavistic memory from long past ages when laws had not induced
suppressions? Is the murder impulse a natural one and are all of us
potential killers, so that to save extinction men have devised the
theory of the sanctity of human life? And at that last moment does this
hereditary buried instinct surge triumphantly to the surface, steel the
hand which holds the knife, steady the revolver, put the smile on the
face of the poisoner?

There must be a something of the sort. One thing we do know; once a man
has killed, his inhibitions are destroyed. He has joined the alien clan,
of which no member knows the other, and has set his face against the
world.

Thereafter he is alone.

But I have found no answer. In our case I have looked back, searching
for some variation from the normal, or some instinct of weakening or
remorse. But I have found none. We know now that there were moments of
terrific danger, when the whole murderous structure was about to
collapse. But if there was panic then we have no evidence of it. Each
such emergency was met With diabolical ingenuity and cunning, and that
cunning went even further. It provided in advance against every possible
contingency of discovery.

What long hours went into that planning, that covering of every possible
clue, we can only surmise; the meticulous surveying of this and that,
the searching for any looseness in the whole criminal plan, the
deliberate attempts to throw suspicion elsewhere.

There must have been a real satisfaction toward the end, however, a
false feeling of security, a rubbing of the hands and a certain
complacency.

And then suddenly the whole carefully woven fabric was destroyed.
Strange and mysterious and bitter that must have been. Everything
provided against, and then at the last to be destroyed by a door, a
thing of wood and paint with an ordinary tarnished brass knob. Months
had passed. Hundreds of hands had touched that knob in the interval; the
door itself had been painted. And yet it solved our mystery and brought
destruction to as diabolical and cunning a murderer as the records of
crime will show.

                 *        *        *        *        *

As I have already intimated, I live alone, in the usual sense of the
word. That is, I am more or less without family. A secretary, usually a
young woman, and the customary servants form my household. And as the
first crime occurred in this household it will be as well to outline it
at once.

Outside of my secretary, Mary Martin, a young and very pretty girl, the
establishment at the time of the disappearance of Sarah Gittings
consisted of four servants: my butler, Joseph Holmes, who had been in my
employ for many years, a respectable looking man of uncertain age, very
quiet; my chauffeur, Robert White, who was not white, but a negro; the
cook, Norah Moriarity, and Clara Jenkins, the housemaid. A laundress, a
white woman, came in by the day, and from spring until fall a gardener
named Abner Jones took care of the lawns and shrubbery.

And as my property, both houses and grounds, plays an important part in
this narrative, I would better describe them also.

The house, then, sits some hundred feet back from the street. Two stone
gate posts, from which the gates have been removed, mark the entrance,
and the drive circles around a grass oval before the front door. Heavy
old shrubbery, which I have not had the heart to thin out, shields me
from the street and is spread in clumps over the grounds.

Thus the garage at the rear is partly screened from sight, although as
was shown later, there is a clear view from it of the pantry window.

At the rear behind the garage, lies a deep ravine which has been
recently incorporated into the city park system; and at one side of me
lies an acre or two of undeveloped property known as the Larimer lot.

Through this, from the street and extending sharply down the hill into
the park, runs a foot-path, an unpaved cut-off. In winter when the
leaves are off the trees I can see a portion of this path. Not all, for
both the lot and the path are heavily bordered with old cedars.

Our first crime took place on the Larimer lot, not far from this path.

I have no near neighbors. This part of the city was country when the
house was built, and the property on the other side is very large, ten
acres or so. It was recently bought by a retired bootlegger and has no
part in this narrative.

The house itself—my house—is old fashioned but very comfortable. But
as I sit here in the library, one leg out before me and my pad on the
other while I endeavor to think on paper, I realize that the house
requires more description than that. Like the path, it too played its
part.

I am writing in the library. Beside me on a table is the small bell
which I ring to attract attention, since I cannot get to the speaking
tube—I have said we are old fashioned—and a row of soft pencils like
the one which later on we found on the skylight over the lavatory. There
is a desk, an old Queen Anne walnut one, an open fire, chairs and books.
From the side windows one commands the Larimer lot, from the front the
entrance drive.

So the library has not only comfort, but a certain strategic place in
the house. I can not only see my callers in advance; I can sit there and
survey a large portion of my lower floor domain. It lies to the right of
the front door and the hall.

Across the long center hall with its white staircase and its rear door
to the service portion of the house, lies the drawing room. I can see
now the forward end of it, with its ormolu cabinet, its French sofa done
in old rose damask, and that painting of my father which does the Bell
nose so grave an injustice.

And although I cannot see it, I know that at the end of that drawing
room, opening onto a blank brick wall which I have screened with arbor
vitæ and rhododendrons, there is a French door with steps leading out
onto the grass. Also I know, by actual measurement, that it is precisely
fifty feet and around a corner to the kitchen porch.

From the rear of the library double doors open into a music room, not
often used nowadays, and behind that is the dining room.

This is my domain, and today in the winter sun it is very peaceful.
There has been a little snow, and the cedars at the top of the path down
the hill are quite beautiful. I have a wood fire, and the dogs, Jock and
Isabel—named by Judy because she had never heard of a dog called
Isabel—are asleep before it.

Jock is a terrier, Isabel a corpulent and defeminized French bull. As
they too played a small and not too meritorious part in our _débâcle_,
it is necessary to name them.

I have listed my household as it was on the eighteenth of April of this
year. Usually my secretaries do not live in the house, but come in daily
for such notes, checks, bills and what not as clutter the desk of a
woman who, because she has no family of her own, is supposed to expend
her maternal instinct in charity.

But Mary Martin was living in the house, and due to a reason directly
connected with this narrative.

During the housecleaning the previous autumn Norah had unearthed an old
cane belonging to my grandfather, that Captain Bell who played so brave
if unsung a part in the Mexican War.

She brought it downstairs to me, and I told her to have Joseph polish
the handle. When Joseph came back with it he was smiling, an unusual
thing for Joseph.

“That’s a very interesting old cane, madam,” he said. “It has a knife in
it.”

“A knife? What for?”

But Joseph did not know. It appeared that he had been polishing the knob
when a blade suddenly shot out of the end. He had been greatly startled
and had almost dropped the thing.

Later on I showed it to Jim Blake, my cousin, and he made the suggestion
which brought Mary Martin into the house.

“Why not write the old boy’s life?” he suggested. “You must have a
trunkful of letters, and this sword-stick, or sword-cane or whatever it
is, is a good starting point. And by the way, if ever you want to give
it away, give it to me.”

“I may do that,” I said. “I don’t like deadly weapons around the place.”

In March I gave it to him. “The Life,” as Judy called it, was going on
well, and Mary Martin efficient enough, although I was never fond of
her.




                              CHAPTER TWO


This then was my household and my house on the day Sarah Gittings
disappeared. The servants lived on the third floor at the rear, their
portion of the floor cut off from the front by a door. A back staircase
reached this upper rear hall, allowing them to come and go as they
required.

Mary had the third floor front room above the library, and Sarah the one
behind it and over the blue spare room. Mary’s door stood open most of
the time, Sarah’s closed and often locked. For all her good qualities
there was a suspicious streak in Sarah.

“I don’t like people meddling with my things,” she would say.

But Sarah was not a permanent member of the household. She was a
middle-aged, rather heavy and silent woman, a graduate nurse of the old
régime who had been in the family for years. In serious illness we
sometimes brought in brisk young women, starchy and efficient, but in
trouble we turned to Sarah.

We passed her around. My sister Laura would wire from Kansas City,
“Children have measles. Please send Sarah if possible.” And Sarah would
pack her bag, cash one of her neat small checks and slip off. A good bit
of her time was spent with my cousin Katherine Somers in New York.
Katherine was devoted to her, although just why it is difficult to say.
She was a taciturn woman, giving no confidences but probably receiving a
great many.

Poor Sarah! I can still see her in her starched white uniform, with its
skirts which just cleared the ground, moving among our various
households, with us but not entirely of us; watching nervously over the
stair rail while Judy, Katherine’s daughter, made her début; slapping
Laura’s newest baby between the shoulders to make it breathe, or bending
over me to give me a daily massage, her heavy body clumsy enough but her
hands light and gentle.

She was not a clever woman. Or maybe I am wrong. Perhaps in a family
which prides itself on a sort of superficial cleverness, she was merely
silenced.

It was Wallie Somers, Katherine’s stepson, who claimed that when he told
her Hoover was nominated, she said:

“Really! That ought to be good business for the vacuum cleaner.”

Not a romantic figure, Sarah, or a mysterious one. All of us thought of
her as a fixture, growing older but more or less always to be with us. I
remember Howard Somers, Katherine’s husband, telling her one day that he
had remembered her in his will.

“Not a lot, Sarah,” he said. “But you’ll never have to go to the Old
Ladies’ Home!”

I don’t know why we were so astonished to see her burst into tears. I
dare say she had been worried about the future; about getting old, and
the children growing up and forgetting her. Anyhow she cried, and Howard
was greatly embarrassed.

She had her peculiarities, of course. In Katherine’s house, what with
guests in and out all the time, she had developed the habit of taking
her meals in her room on a tray, and this habit persisted.

“I like to read while I eat,” she said. “And I’m up early, and I don’t
like late dinners.”

She had some sort of stomach trouble, poor thing.

But in my simpler household she ate with me unless there was some one
there. Then, to Joseph’s secret fury, she retired to her room and had
her tray there.

She had come down from Katherine’s a month or so before, not so much
because I needed her as that Katherine thought she needed a change.
Howard had had a bad heart for some time, and Sarah had been nursing
him.

“Just let her putter around,” Katherine wrote. “She’ll want to work,
being Sarah, so if you can stand a daily massage——”

And of course I could, and did.

I have drawn Sarah as well as I can, and the family rather sketchily;
Howard and Katherine in their handsome duplex apartment in New York on
Park Avenue, bringing out Judy at nineteen; Laura in Kansas City,
raising a noisy young family; and myself in my old-fashioned house with
its grounds and shrubbery, its loneliness and its memories. Dependent on
a few friends, a small dinner party now and then, a little bridge; and
on my servants, on Joseph and Norah and Clara and Robert, and on the
Mary Martins who came and went, intelligent young women who used me as a
stop-gap in their progress toward marriage or a career. A staid
household, dependent for its youth on Judy’s occasional visits, on
secretaries whose minds were elsewhere, and on Wallie Somers, Howard’s
son by his first wife, whose ostensible business was bonds and whose
relaxation, when he could not find some one to play with, was old
furniture. Than which, as Judy once said, I have nothing else but.

As it happened, Judy was with me when Sarah disappeared that night in
April of last year. She was staging her annual revolt.

“I get a trifle fed up with Katherine now and then,” she would say,
arriving without notice. “She’s too intense. Now you are restful. You’re
really a frivolous person, you know, Elizabeth Jane, for all your
clothes and airs.”

“Frivolity is all I have left,” I would say meekly. Judy has a habit of
first names. Katherine had carefully taught her to call me Cousin
Elizabeth, but Judy had discarded that with her stockings, which now she
wore as seldom as possible and under protest. Although I doubt if she
ever called her mother Katherine to her face.

Katherine was a good mother but a repressed one. Also she was still
passionately in love with Howard; one of those profound absorbing loves
which one finds sometimes in women who are apparently cold, and which
makes them better wives than mothers. I rather think that she was even a
little jealous of Judy, and that Judy knew it.

Judy would arrive, and as if by a miracle the telephone would commence
to ring and shining sports cars would be parked for hours in front of
the house. Joseph would assume a resigned expression, empty cigarette
trays by the dozen, and report to me in his melancholy voice.

“Some one has burned a hole on the top of your Queen Anne desk, madam.”

I was never anything to him but “madam.” It got on my nerves sometimes.

“Never mind, Joseph. We have to pay a price for youth.”

He would go out again, depressed but dignified. In his own way he was as
unsocial as Sarah, as mysterious and self-obliterating as are all good
servants.

So on that last night of Sarah Judy was with me. She had just arrived,
looking a trifle defiant, and at dinner she stated her grievance. Mary
Martin was out for the evening, and the two of us were alone at the
table.

“Really, Katherine is _too_ outrageous,” she said.

“She’s probably saying the same thing about you.”

“But it is silly. Truly. She wants me not to see Wallie. I don’t think
Wallie is anything to lie awake at night about, but after all he’s my
half-brother.”

I said nothing. It was an old difficulty in the family, Katherine’s
dislike of Howard’s son by his first marriage. It was a part of her
jealousy of Howard, her resentment of that early unfortunate marriage of
his. She loathed Wallie and all he stood for; not that he stood for a
great deal. He was the usual rich man’s son, rather charming in his own
way but neurotic since the war. But he looked like Margaret, the first
wife, and Katherine could not forgive him that.

“You like Wallie,” Judy accused me.

“Of course I do.”

“And he had a wonderful war record.”

“Certainly he had. What are you trying to do, Judy? Justify yourself?”

“I think he’s had a rotten deal,” she said. “From all of us. A bit of
allowance from father, and now I’m not to see him!”

“But you are going to see him,” I told her. “You’re going to see him
tonight. He wants to look over an old ormolu cabinet Laura has sent me.”

She forgot her irritation in her delight.

“Lovely! Has it got any secret drawers? I adore looking for secret
drawers,” she said, and went on eating a substantial meal. These young
things, with their slender waists and healthy appetites!

She had already rushed up to the third floor to greet Sarah, and while
we were eating I heard Sarah on the way down. This was nothing unusual.
She would go out sometimes at night, either to the movies or to take
Jock and Isabel for a walk, and I could sit at my place at the table and
watch her coming down the stairs. The fireplace in the music room is set
at an angle, and in the mirror over it I would see Sarah; first her
soft-soled low-heeled shoes, then the bottom of her white skirt, and
then her gray coat, until finally all of Sarah emerged into view.

This evening however I saw that she had taken off her uniform, and I
called to her.

“Going to the movies, Sarah?”

“No.” She had no small amenities of speech.

“Don’t you want the dogs? They haven’t been out today.”

She seemed to hesitate. I could see her in the mirror, and I surprised
an odd expression on her face. Then the dogs themselves discovered her
and began to leap about her.

“Do take them, Sarah,” Judy called.

“I suppose I can,” she agreed rather grudgingly “What time is it?”

Judy looked at her wrist watch and told her.

“And do behave yourself, Sarah!” she called.

But Sarah did not answer. She snapped the leashes on the dogs and went
out. That was at five minutes after seven. She went out and never came
back.

Judy and I loitered over the meal, or rather I loitered; Judy ate and
answered the telephone. One call was from a youth named Dick, and there
was a subtle change in Judy’s voice which made me suspicious. Another,
however, she answered coldly.

“I don’t see why,” she said. “She knew quite well where I was going
. . . Well, I’m all right. If I want to go wrong I don’t need to come
here to do it . . . No, she’s gone out.”

I have recorded this conversation because it became highly important
later on. To the best of my knowledge it came soon after Sarah left; at
seven-fifteen or thereabouts.

Judy came back to the table with her head in the air.

“Uncle Jim,” she said. “Wouldn’t you know mother would sic him on me?
The old goose!”

By which she referred not to Katherine, but to Katherine’s brother, Jim
Blake. Judy had chosen to affect a dislike for him, not because of any
inherent qualities in Jim himself, but because Katherine was apt to make
him her agent when Judy visited me.

Personally I was fond of Jim, perhaps because he paid me the small
attentions a woman of my age finds gratifying, and certainly Katherine
adored him.

“He asked for Sarah, but I told him she had gone out. What in the world
does he want with Sarah?”

“He may have had some message from your mother for her.”

“Probably to keep an eye on me,” said Judy, drily.

I think all this is accurate. So many things happened that evening that
I find it difficult to go back to that quiet meal. Quiet, that is, up to
the time when Joseph brought in our coffee.

I know we discussed Jim, Judy and I, and Judy with the contempt of her
youth for the man in his late forties who takes no active part in the
world. Yet Jim had organized his life as best he could. He was a
bachelor, who went everywhere for a reason which I surmised but Judy
could not understand; the fear of the lonely of being alone.

“Uncle Jim and his parties!” said Judy. “How in the world does he pay
for them?”

“He has a little from his mother.”

“And more probably from my mother!”

Well, that might have been, so I said nothing, and as money meant
nothing in Judy’s lavish young life she was immediately cheerful again.

It is hard to remember Jim as he was in those days; as he must have been
when he left his house that night. A tall man, still very erect, and
with graying hair carefully brushed to hide its thinness, he was always
urbane and well-dressed. He was popular too. He had never let business,
which in his case was a dilettante interest in real estate, interfere
with a golf game or bridge, and by way of keeping up his social end he
gave innumerable little tea parties and dinners. He had a colored
servant named Amos who was a quick change artist, and so people dined
with Jim on food cooked by Amos, to be served by Amos in a dinner
jacket, and then went outside to find Amos in a uniform and puttees,
standing by the car with the rug neatly folded over his arm.

There are some people to whom all colored men look alike, and to these
no doubt Jim Blake appeared to be served by a retinue of servants.

“The Deb’s delight!” was Judy’s closing and scathing comment, and then
Joseph brought in the coffee.

That was, according to Joseph’s statement to the police and later before
the Grand Jury, at seven-thirty or seven-thirty-five.

Judy had lighted a cigarette. I remember thinking how pretty she looked
in the candle light, and how the house brightened when she was there.
Joseph was moving about the pantry, and in the silence I could hear
distant voices from the servants’ hall beyond the kitchen.

Judy had lapsed into silence. The initial excitement of her arrival was
over, and I thought now that she looked dispirited and rather tired.
Then I happened to raise my eyes, and they fell on the mirror.

There was a man on the staircase.




                             CHAPTER THREE


He seemed to be crouching there. I could see only his legs, in darkish
trousers, and he had no idea that I could see him at all. He was
apparently listening, listening and calculating. Should he make a dash
to get out, or retreat? The door from the dining room to the hall was
wide open. I would surely see him; was it worth the trying?

Evidently he decided that it was not, for without turning he backed
soundlessly up the stairs.

“Judy,” I said quietly. “Don’t move or raise your voice. There’s a
burglar upstairs. I’ve just seen him.”

“What shall I do? I can close the library door and call the police.”

“Do that, then, and I’ll tell Joseph. He can’t get out by the back
stairs without going through the kitchen, and the servants would see
him.”

I rang for Joseph, feeling calm and rather pleased at my calmness. Such
few jewels as I keep out of the bank were on me, and if he wanted my
gold toilet set he was welcome. It was insured. But while I waited for
Joseph I took off my rings and dropped them into the flower vase on the
table.

Joseph took the news quietly. He said that Robert was still in the
garage, and that he would station him at the foot of the back stairs,
but that to wait for the police was nonsense.

“He’d jump out a window, madam. But if I go up, as though I didn’t know
he was about, I might surprise him.”

“You’re not armed.”

“I have a revolver in the pantry, madam.”

That did not surprise me. There had been some burglaries in the
neighborhood recently—I believe the bootlegger had had the tables
turned on him, a matter which I considered a sort of poetic justice—and
I stood in the doorway watching the stairs until Joseph reappeared.

“If he gets past me,” he said, “stand out of his way, madam. These cat
burglars are dangerous.”

He went up the front staircase, leaving me in the lower hall. I could
hear Judy at the telephone, patiently explaining in a low voice, and I
could hear Joseph overhead, moving about systematically: the second
floor, the third, opening room doors and closet doors, moving with his
dignified unhurried tread, but doing the thing thoroughly.

He was still moving majestically along the third floor hall when I heard
a slight noise near at hand. I could neither describe it nor locate it.
Something fairly near me had made a sound, a small sharp report. It
appeared to have come from the back hallway, where there is a small
lavatory. When Judy emerged I told her, and against my protests she
marched back and threw open the door.

It was quite empty and soon after Joseph came down to say that he had
found nobody, but that some one might be hiding on the roof, and as by
that time a policeman had arrived on a motorcycle, I sent him out to
look.

The officer inside and Joseph out, it seemed scarcely credible that we
found nobody. But our burglar had gone; without booty too, as it turned
out, for my toilet things were undisturbed.

I think the officer was rather amused than otherwise. Judy saw him out.

“If you’re ever in trouble again, Miss, just send for me,” he said
gallantly.

“I’m always in trouble,” said Judy.

“Now is that so? What sort of trouble?”

“Policemen,” said Judy pleasantly, and closed the door on him.

Looking back, it seems strange how light-hearted we were that night.
That loneliness which is my usual lot had gone with Judy’s arrival, and
when Wallie arrived at eight-thirty he found Judy insisting on my
smoking a cigarette.

“You’re shaken, Elizabeth Jane,” she was saying. “You know darn well
you’re shaken.”

“Shaken? About what?” said Wallie from the hall.

“She’s had a burglar, poor dear,” Judy explained. “A burglar in dark
trousers, crouched on the staircase.”

“On the stairs? Do you mean you saw him?”

“She saw his legs.”

“And that’s all?”

“That’s enough, isn’t it? The rest of him was sure to be around
somewhere. The said legs then ceased crouching and west upstairs. After
that they vanished.”

He said nothing more, but walked back into the dining room and surveyed
the mirror.

“That’s a tricky arrangement you have there, Elizabeth Jane,” he called.
He had adopted Judy’s habit. “Go up the stairs, Judy, and let me see
your legs.”

“Don’t be shameless!” she said. “How’s this?”

“All right. Yes, I see them, and very nice ones they are at that.”

When he came forward again Judy insisted on examining the stair rail for
fingerprints, although Wallie said that it was nonsense; that all
criminals wore gloves nowadays, and that with the increasing crime wave
the glove factories were running night shifts. But she departed for a
candle nevertheless, and Wallie glanced up the staircase.

“Rather a blow for the divine Sarah, eh what?” he said.

“Sarah is out, fortunately. She took the dogs.”

It struck me, as he stood there in the full light over his head, that he
was looking even thinner than usual, and very worn. He had much of his
mother’s beauty, if one dare speak of beauty in a man, but he had also
inherited her high-strung nervous temperament. The war must have been
hell for him, for he never spoke of it. I have noticed that the men who
really fought and really suffered have very little to say about it;
whether because they cannot bear to recall it or because most of them
are inarticulate I do not know.

While we stood there I told him about the sound I had heard, and he went
back to the lavatory and looked up.

This lavatory is merely a small washroom opening from the rear portion
of the hall, and lighted by an opaque glass ceiling, in the center of
which a glass transom opens by a cord for ventilation. The shaft above
is rather like an elevator well, and light enters through a skylight in
the roof.

Onto this well there is only one opening and this the window to the
housemaid’s closet on the third floor. As during the tornado of 1893 the
entire skylight frame and all had been lifted and dropped end-on into
the shaft, crashing through the glass roof below, my father had had
placed across it some iron bars. These, four in number, were firmly
embedded in the walls about six feet below the window sill.

“I suppose nobody has examined the shaft?”

“I really don’t know. Probably not.”

He continued to gaze upward.

“He might have swung into the shaft, and stood on the bars.”

“Provided he knew there were bars there,” I said drily.

Suddenly he turned and shot up the stairs, and a moment later he was
calling from the third floor.

“Get a ladder, somebody. There’s something on top of that skylight down
there.”

“You mean—the man himself?”

He laughed at that.

“He’d have gone through the glass like a load of coal! No. Something
small. I can see it against the light beneath.”

He ran down, rushed into the library for matches, and when Robert had
brought a ladder from the garage and placed it in the lavatory he was on
it and halfway through the transom in an instant.

We stood huddled in the door, Judy still holding the candle, and I—for
some unknown reason—with a lighted cigarette in my hand which some one
had thrust on me, and Robert and Joseph behind.

I don’t know what I had expected, but I know that I felt a shock of
disappointment when Wallie said:

“Hello! Here it is. A pencil!”

He found nothing else, and came down in a moment, looking dirty and
rather the worse for wear, but extremely pleased with himself.

“A pencil!” he said exultantly. “Now how about it? Will Scotland Yard
send for me or will it not? That’s what you heard, you see.”

But Judy only took one glance at it.

“Possibly,” she said. “Still, as it’s the sort Elizabeth Jane uses
herself, with the point looking as though she’d sharpened it with her
teeth, I see nothing to write home about.”

That annoyed him.

“All right,” he told her. “We’ll see. It may have fingerprints.”

“I thought you’d decided he wore gloves! Why don’t you try to find how
he got in? That’s more to the point. And also how he got out?”

It seems strange to be writing all this; the amiable bickering between
Wallie and Judy; the light-hearted experiment to find if a pencil
dropped from the third floor made the sound I had heard, and my own
feeling that it did not; and the final discovery of the shattered pane
in the rear French door of the drawing room, and our failure to see,
lying on the step outside, that broken point of a penknife which
Inspector Harrison was to find the next morning.

Strange, almost frivolous.

It was Judy who found the broken pane, hidden as it was behind the
casement curtains on the door, and who pointed out the ease with which
our intruder had reached in and turned the key. There is another door at
the back of the drawing room, a sort of service entrance which opens
into the rear hall beside the servants’ staircase, and it was evident
that he had used this to gain access to the upper floors.

“Easy enough,” said Judy. “But he couldn’t get out that way. Clara was
coming down to her dinner, so he hid on the front stairs.”

“And I suppose he was not in the light shaft at all?” Wallie demanded.

“I don’t say he wasn’t,” said my surprising Judy. “I only say that the
pencil is not proved. I think it very likely he did hide in the shaft.
He’d retreated before Joseph as far as he could go.”

“But what did he want?” I demanded. “I don’t suppose he broke in here to
drop a pencil. If he was coming down when I saw him——”

“Well, he might have been going up,” said Judy practically. “A good
burglar might start at the top and work down. Like housecleaning.”

Wallie had sealed the pencil in an envelope for the police, and I
daresay all of this had not taken much more than half an hour. It must
have been at nine o’clock or thereabouts, then, that I sent the maids to
their beds and watched them as they made a nervous half-hysterical
start, and nine-thirty before Joseph and Wallie had placed a padlock on
the broken door in the drawing room. Then I ordered Joseph to bed, but
he objected.

“Miss Sarah has not come in.”

“She has a key, Joseph.”

But I was uneasy. In the excitement I had forgotten Sarah.

Wallie looked up sharply from the door.

“Sarah!” he said. “Is she still out?”

“Yes. And she has the dogs. Where could she stay until this hour with
two dogs? She has no friends.”

I left Wallie and Judy in the drawing room, and wandered out and down
the steps. It was a cool night, without a moon but with plenty of
starlight, and I walked down the drive. I remembered that as I walked I
whistled for the dogs. Sometimes she loosened them and they preceded her
home.

It seemed to me that I heard a dog barking far off somewhere, but that
was all.

I was vaguely inclined to walk in that direction. The dog seemed to be
at the far end of the Larimer lot or beyond it, in the park. But at the
gate I met Mary Martin, hurrying home. She had been out somewhere for
dinner, and she was slightly sulky; it was a continued grievance with
her that Sarah had a key to the house and she had none, but I have an
old-fashioned sense of responsibility to the people in my employ, and
Mary was a still young and very pretty girl.

On the way to the house I told her about our burglar, and she relaxed
somewhat.

“I don’t think you should be out here alone,” she said. “He may still be
about.”

“I was looking for Sarah,” I explained. “She’s out with the dogs, and
it’s getting late.”

To my intense surprise she stopped perfectly still.

“When did she go out?” she said sharply.

“At seven. That’s almost three hours.”

She moved on again, but in silence. The front door was open, and in the
light from it I thought she looked rather pale. At that moment however
Wallie appeared in the doorway, and suddenly she brightened.

“I wouldn’t worry, Miss Bell. She can take care of herself. And she has
a key!”

She glanced at me rather pertly, favored Wallie with a smile as she went
in, greeting Judy with considerable manner—she seemed always to be
afraid that Judy might patronize her—and teetered up the stairs on the
high heels she affected.

Wallie gazed after her as she went up. At the turn she paused. I saw her
looking down at us intently, at Judy, at myself, at Wallie. Mostly at
Wallie.

“I wouldn’t worry about Miss Gittings,” she said. “She’s sure to be all
right.”

“You might see if she’s in her room, Mary,” Judy suggested. “She may
have come in while we were in the drawing room.”

We could hear her humming as she went on up the stairs, and shortly
after she called down to say that Sarah was not in her room but that it
was unlocked.

“That’s queer,” said Judy. “She always locks it, doesn’t she?”

We could hear a sort of ironic amusement in Mary’s voice as she replied.

“Not so queer this evening,” she said. “She knew I was out! Her key’s in
the door, on the outside, but she forgot to take it.”

I do not remember much about the hour between ten and eleven. Wallie was
not willing to go until Sarah returned, and Judy and he worked over the
cabinet. The house was very still. For a time, as I sat in the library,
I could hear Mary moving about on the third floor, drawing a bath—she
was very fastidious in everything that pertained to herself—and finally
going into her room and closing her door. But by eleven Judy had given
up all hope of a secret drawer in the cabinet and was yawning, and a few
moments after that Wallie left and she wandered up to bed.

But I still waited in the library. I had a queer sense of apprehension,
but I laid it to the events of the evening, and after a time—I am no
longer young, and I tire easily—I fell into a doze.

When I roused it was one in the morning, and Sarah had not come back.
She would have roused me if she had, have put out the lights.
Nevertheless I went upstairs and opened her door. The room was dark. I
called to her, cautiously, but there was no answer, and no stertorous
breathing to show that she was asleep.

For the first time I was really alarmed about her. I went downstairs
again, stopping in my room for a wrap and in the dining room for my
rings, which I had almost forgotten. Then I went out on the street.

The dog, or dogs, were still barking at intervals, and at last I started
toward the sound.




                              CHAPTER FOUR


It is one of the inevitable results of tragedy that one is always
harking back to it, wondering what could have been done to avert it. I
find myself going over and over the events of that night, so simple in
appearance, so dreadful in result. Suppose I had turned on Sarah’s light
that night? Would I have found her murderer in the room? Was the faint
sound I heard the movement of her curtain in the wind, as I had thought,
or something much more terrible?

Again, instead of sending Joseph upstairs to search, what if I had had
the police called and the house surrounded?

Still, what could I have done for Sarah? Nothing. Nothing at all.

I was rather nervous as I walked along, going toward the Larimer lot and
the park. But the occasional despairing yelps were growing more and more
familiar as I advanced, and when at last I let out that feeble pipe
which is my attempt at a whistle, the dogs recognized it in a sort of
ecstasy of noise. I could make out Jock’s shrill bark and Isabel’s
melancholy whine, but for some reason they did not come to me.

I stood on the pavement and called, loath to leave its dryness and
security for the brush and trees and dampness of the Larimer property.
Frightened too, I admit. Something was holding the dogs. I am quite
certain now that when I started to run toward them I expected to find
Sarah there, unconscious or dead. I ran in a sort of frenzy. Once indeed
I fell over some old wire, and I was dizzy when I got up.

But Sarah was not there. Far back in the lot I found the dogs, and if I
wondered that they had not come to me that mystery was soon solved.

They were tied. A piece of rope had been run through the loops of their
leashes and then tied to a tree. So well tied that, what with their
joyous rushes and the hard knotting of the rope, I could scarcely free
them.

Asked later on about that knot, I had no clear memory of it whatever.

It was very dark. Far back on the street a lamp lighted that corner
where the path took off, to pitch steeply down into the park. The
Larimer lot is a triangle, of which the side of my property is the
vertical, the street the base, and the ravine beyond the hypotenuse.
Thus:

[Illustration]

I remember calling Sarah frantically, and then telling the terrier to
find her.

“Go find Sarah, Jock,” I said. “Find Sarah.”

He only barked, however, and an instant later both of them were racing
for home.

But I still had a queer feeling that Sarah must be there. I went back to
the house, to find the dogs scratching at the front door, and when I had
roused Joseph I took him back with me to search the lot. He with his
revolver and I with my searchlight must have been a queer clandestine
sort of picture; two middle-aged folk, Joseph half clad, wandering about
in the night. And so the roundsman on the beat must have believed, for
when he came across to us his voice was suspicious.

“Lost anything?”

“A middle-aged woman, rather heavy-set,” I said half hysterically.

“Well, she oughtn’t to be hard to find,” he observed. “Now if it was a
ring, with all this brush and stuff——”

But he was rather impressed when I told my story.

“Tied to a tree, eh? Which tree?”

“Over there; my butler’s examining it. The rope’s still there.”

But a moment later Joseph almost stunned me.

“There is no rope here, madam,” he called.

And incredible as it may sound, the rope was not there. The policeman
searched, we all searched. There was no rope and no Sarah. The policeman
was not so much suspicious as slightly amused.

“Better go back and get a good night’s sleep, ma’am,” he said
soothingly. “You can come around in the morning and look all you want.”

“But there _was_ a rope, I could hardly untie it.”

“Sure,” he said indulgently. “Probably the lady you’re looking for tied
them up herself. She had business somewhere else and they’d be in the
way. See?”

Well, it was possible, of course. I did not believe it, knowing Sarah;
but then, did I know Sarah? The surface of Sarah I knew, the unruffled,
rather phlegmatic faithful Sarah; but what did I really know about her?
It came to me like a blow that I did not even know if she had any
family, that there was no one I could notify.

“You go home now,” he said, as coaxingly as he would speak to a child,
“and in the morning you’ll find she’s back. If she isn’t you can let me
know.”

And he said this too with an air, a certain paternalism; as though he
had said: “Just leave this to me. I am the law. I’ll fix it. And now
just run along. I’ve my job to attend to.”

The next morning was rainy and gray. I had slept very little, and I rang
for my breakfast tray at eight o’clock. Any hope that Sarah had slipped
in early in the morning was dashed by Joseph’s sober face. I drank a
little coffee, and at eight-thirty Judy came in yawning, in a luxurious
negligee over very gaudy pyjamas.

“Well, what explanation did she give?” she said. “May I have my tray
here? I hate eating alone.”

“Did who give?”

“Sarah.”

“She hasn’t come back, Judy.”

“What? I heard her. From two until three she walked about over my head
until I was almost crazy.”

Sarah’s room was over Judy’s. I sat up in bed and stared at her. Then I
rang the bell again.

“Joseph,” I said, “have you been into Sarah’s room this morning?”

“No, madam. I overslept, and I hurried right down.”

“Then how do you know she has not come back?”

“She hasn’t been down for her breakfast. She’s very early, always.”

And just then we heard Mary Martin talking excitedly to Clara in the
hall overhead, and then come running down the stairs. She burst into my
room hysterically, to say that Sarah was not in her room and that it was
all torn up. Judy was gone like a flash, and while I threw something
about me I questioned Mary. She had, it seems, knocked at Sarah’s door
to borrow the morning paper. The morning paper, by the way, always
reached me fourth hand; Joseph took it in and looked it over, Sarah got
it from him, Mary Martin borrowed it from Sarah, and when I rang for it,
usually at nine o’clock, it was apt to bear certain unmistakable scars;
a bit of butter, a smudge of egg, or a squirt of grapefruit juice.
Anyhow, receiving no answer, Mary had opened the door, and what she saw
I saw when I had hurried upstairs.

Sarah’s room was in complete confusion, Some one had jerked aside her
mattress and pillows, thrown down the clothes in her neat closet, looked
at her shoes, and turned out her bureau. Even her trunk had been broken
open, and its contents lay scattered about. Those records of family
illnesses, which she carted about with her as a veteran might carry his
medals, had been thrown out onto the bed and apparently examined.

There was something ruthless and shameless about the room now. It had no
secrets, no privacies. It was, in a way, as though some one had stripped
Sarah, had bared her stout spinster body to the world.

Judy, rather white, was in the doorway.

“I wouldn’t go in,” she said. “Or at least I wouldn’t touch anything.
Not until you get the police.”

Clara, the housemaid, was staring in over my shoulder.

“She’ll have a fit over this,” she said. “She’s that tidy!”

But I had a dreadful feeling that poor Sarah would never again have a
fit over anything in this world.

It was nine-fifteen when I telephoned to headquarters, and at a quarter
to ten a policeman in uniform and the Assistant Superintendent of
Police, Inspector Harrison, reached the house.

The two of them examined the room, and then leaving the uniformed man in
charge of Sarah’s room, Inspector Harrison listened to my story in the
library. He was a short stocky man, very bald and with the bluest eyes I
have ever seen in an adult human being.

As he talked he drew a wooden toothpick from his pocket and bit on the
end of it. Later on I was to find that he had an apparently limitless
supply of the things, and that they served a variety of purposes and
moods. He had given up smoking, he said, and they gave him “something to
think with.”

He was disinclined to place any serious interpretation on Sarah’s
absence until it was necessary, but he was interested in the
housebreaking episode; especially in Wallie’s theory that the intruder
on his first visit had swung himself into the light shaft, and he
carefully examined it from above and below. There were, however, many
scratches on the sill of Clara’s pantry and little to be learned from
any of them.

The Inspector stood for some time looking down into the shaft.

“He could get in all right,” he decided, “but I’d hate to undertake to
get myself out, once I was in. Still, it’s possible.”

After that he wandered around the house, sometimes alone, sometimes with
Joseph. Wallie had arrived, and he and Judy and I sat there waiting,
Judy very quiet, Wallie clearly anxious and for the first time alarmed.
He moved about the room, picking things up and putting them down until
Judy turned on him angrily.

“For heaven’s sake, Wallie! Can’t you keep still?”

“If I annoy you, why not go somewhere else?”

She lit a cigarette and looked at him.

“I don’t get it,” she said slowly. “What’s Sarah to you? You never cared
much for her.”

“You’ll know some day.”

She cocked an eye at him.

“If eventually, why not now?”

But he merely turned on his heel and resumed his nervous pacing of the
room.

Some time later he suggested that Sarah might have gone to New York, and
that Judy telephone and find out. In the end, in order not to alarm
Katherine, I called up Jim Blake and told him, and he agreed to invent a
message for Katherine. Asked later about his manner over the telephone,
I could remember very little. I know he seemed surprised, and that he
said he was not well, but that he would dress and come around that
afternoon.

When he called back it was to say that evidently Sarah had not gone
there, and that he would be around at three o’clock.

The information had a curious effect on Wallie, however. As I watched
him it seemed to me that he looked frightened; but that may be in view
of what I know now. I do, however, recall that he looked as though he
had slept badly, and that day for the first time since the early days
after the war I saw him begin to twist his seal ring again.

When he was not lighting a cigarette or throwing it away he was twisting
his ring, turning it around and around on his finger.

Once he left us and went upstairs to look at Sarah’s room. The policeman
opened the door but would not let him enter, and I believe he spoke a
few words with Mary. Indeed, I know now that he did. But he was back in
the library when the Inspector finally came in and selected a fresh
toothpick, this time to make points with.

“First of all,” he said, “it is best not to jump to any conclusions. The
lady may not be dead; very probably is not dead. We are, however,
sending to the Morgue and the hospitals. But there are many reasons why
people occasionally choose to disappear, and sometimes to make that
disappearance as mysterious as possible. For example, Miss Gittings had
a key to the house. It is just possible that she herself came back last
night and ransacked her own room.”

“In a pair of dark trousers?” I demanded sharply.

He smiled at that.

“Perhaps! Stranger things have been done. But now, about this key. It
was outside the door last night?”

“My secretary said so.”

“Well, it’s inside now.”

“I don’t understand it, Inspector. Sarah always locked her door when she
left the house. Locked the door and took the key.”

“There isn’t a second key to her door?”

“Not that I know of.”

“Then we’ll say that this key is hers. It may not be, but it looks like
it and wherever it was last night it’s on the inside of the door now.
Suppose for the sake of argument that she had decided to go away; to say
nothing and go away. She might have forgotten something and come back
for it.”

“Very probably,” said Judy. “She might have forgotten her toothbrush.”

He smiled at her.

“Precisely. Or something she had hidden, and forgotten where she had
hidden it.”

“I see,” said Judy. “She forgot her toothbrush so she came back to get
it, and as she didn’t want Joseph to know she’d forgotten it she hung in
the light shaft and dropped a pencil. It’s perfectly clear.”

“We have no proof yet that anybody was in the light shaft,” he told her,
without resentment. “Where is that pencil, I’d like to look at it.”

I unlocked a drawer of my desk and took out the envelope.

“This been handled since?”

“I picked it up by the point,” Wallie told him.

“Sure it wasn’t there before?” to me.

“I think it is unlikely,” I said. “The ceiling is glass, and is
regularly cleaned. It would have been seen.”

He held it carefully by the eraser and examined it, whistling softly to
himself. Then he dropped it back into the envelope and put it into his
pocket.

“Well, that’s that. Now, as to Miss Gittings herself. I suppose she had
no lover?”

“Lover?” I was shocked. “She is nearly fifty.”

He seemed to be amused at that.

“Still, stranger things——” he said. “Perhaps not a lover. Some man,
probably younger, who might pretend to be interested for some ulterior
purpose. Say money. There’s more of that than you might think. I suppose
she had saved something?”

“I don’t know. A little, perhaps.”

He turned to Judy.

“You accepted that it was Miss Gittings you heard moving in her room.”

“Certainly.”

“Why?”

“It was her room. And the dogs had not barked. They would bark at a
stranger.”

“Oh!” he said, and took a fresh toothpick. “That’s interesting. So the
dogs knew whoever it was! Very interesting.” He sat for a moment or two,
apparently thinking. Then:

“I gather she had few or no outside contacts?”

“None whatever.”

“She never mentioned anybody named Florence?”

“Florence? Not to me.”

He settled down in his chair.

“It is a curious thing,” he said. “We think we know all about certain
individuals, and then something happens, the regular order is disturbed,
and we find we know nothing at all. Now let me tell you certain things
about Sarah Gittings.

“She has been nervous for some time, two weeks or so. She has eaten very
little and slept less. Sometimes she has walked the floor of her room at
night for hours. At least twice in that time she was called up by a girl
named Florence, and made an appointment to meet her. One of these was
made yesterday morning at eleven o’clock. The cook was trying to call
the grocer and overheard her. Unfortunately, the place of meeting had
evidently been prearranged and was not mentioned.

“At a quarter to five yesterday afternoon Sarah Gittings left this
house. She was back in half an hour, according to the butler. She asked
for an early dinner and left the house again at five minutes after
seven.

“But following that return of hers, Sarah Gittings did two peculiar
things. She went down to the cellar, took a chair from the laundry there
and carried it into the room where the firewood is stored; it is there
now. And according to the laundress, she cut off from a new clothes line
an undetermined amount of rope. The line had been neatly rolled and
replaced, but she is a sharp woman, that laundress.”

Wallie had been following this intently, and it seemed to me that he
looked relieved. He had stopped twirling his ring.

“I see,” he said. “She tied the dogs to the tree herself.”

“It looks like it.”

Judy was watching him. “Feeling better, Wallie?” she asked, looking more
cheerful herself. “Weight off the old mind, and all that?”

But he did not even hear her. He drew a long breath and lighted a
cigarette.

“I don’t mind saying,” he said to the detective, “that this thing is
vitally important to me. I—you’ve relieved me more than you know.”

But I had been thinking.

“If she took that piece of rope, it was not to tie the dogs up; I can
assure you of that. She had not expected to take them. I don’t think she
wanted to take them. And as for this man on the stairs,” I went on,
rather tartly, “you tell me that that was Sarah Gittings, who had left
the house only a half hour before, and who could get in at any time! I
am to believe that Sarah went to that empty lot, tied up the dogs, put
on a pair of dark trousers, broke her way in through the drawing room
door, and deliberately let me see her on the staircase! Remember, she
knew about that mirror.”

“But that’s where the man in the case comes in,” said Judy, maliciously.
“Sarah’s lover. He met her at the lot and found she’d forgotten her
toothbrush. Naturally, he refused to elope with her without her
toothbrush. It’s all perfectly simple.”

Mr. Harrison smiled. “Still,” he said, rising, “she _did_ take the rope.
And now we’ll look at that broken door.”

But with the peculiar irony of events which was to handicap all of us
through the entire series of crimes, all traces of footprints in the
ground near the steps—there is no walk there—had already been
obliterated. The rain was over, and Abner Jones had commenced his spring
cleaning up of the lawns and had carefully raked away any possible
signs.

Nevertheless, Judy maintained that Mr. Harrison had found something on
the steps.

“When he stooped over to tie his shoe,” she said, “he stooped and picked
up something very small and shiny. It looked like the point of a knife.”

By noon there was still no news of Sarah. All reports had been negative,
and I believe that the Inspector found no further clues. Judy reported
once that he and the officer in uniform were going through the trash
barrel in the service yard and taking out the glass from the broken
window. But the rain must have washed it fairly clean. Clara had been
told to put Sarah’s room in order again, but when that had been done
Inspector Harrison advised me to lock it and keep the key.

He left us at noon. It was raining hard, but some time later I saw him,
in a dripping mackintosh, moving slowly around in the Larimer property.
When I looked out again, an hour later, he was still there, but he
seemed to have exchanged his soft hat for a cap.

It was not until the figure had disappeared over the hillside that I
decided that it was not the Inspector, but some one else.




                              CHAPTER FIVE


The vast majority of crimes, I believe, are never solved by any single
method or any single individual. Complex crimes, I mean, without
distinct clues and obvious motives.

Certainly in the case of Sarah Gittings, and in those which followed it,
the final solution was a combination of luck and—curiously enough—the
temporary physical disability of one individual.

And I am filled with shuddering horror when I think where we all might
be but for this last.

That day, Tuesday, dragged on interminably. I could do no work on the
biography, and Mary Martin was shut up in her room with a novel. The
servants were uneasy and even the dogs seemed dejected; Joseph puttered
about, looking aged and careworn, and the maids seemed to drink endless
tea in the kitchen and to be reluctant to go upstairs.

At three o’clock, Jim not having arrived and Judy being out with the
dogs, I decided to call Katherine once more. It seemed to me that she
might have a clue of some sort. She knew Sarah better than any of us,
and I felt that at least she should be told.

But all I obtained from her was a thorough scolding for harboring Judy.

“Well!” she said when she heard my voice. “It’s about time! You tell
Judy to come right home. It’s outrageous, Elizabeth.”

“What is outrageous?” I asked.

“Her chasing that idiotic youth. Now listen, Elizabeth; I want you to
keep him out of the house. It’s the very least you can do, if she won’t
come home.”

“I haven’t seen any youth yet,” I explained mildly. “And I’m not
worrying about Judy. I have something else to worry about.”

Her voice was shrill when I told her.

“Missing?” she said. “Sarah missing! Haven’t you any idea where she is?”

“None, except that I’m afraid it’s serious. The police are working on
it.”

“Maybe I’d better come down.”

I checked that at once. Katherine is an intense, repressed woman, who
can be exceedingly charming, but who can also be exceedingly stubborn at
times. As that stubbornness of hers was to work for us later on I must
not decry it, but I did not want her then.

“You can’t do anything,” I said. “And Howard probably needs you. Judy
says he’s not so well.”

“No,” she said slowly. “No. He’s not as well as he ought to be.”

She said nothing more about coming down, but insisted that I see Jim at
once.

“He was fond of Sarah,” she said, “and he really has such a good mind. I
know he will help you.”

She had no other suggestions to make, however. Sarah had no family, she
was certain of that. Her great fear seemed to be that she had been
struck by an automobile, and as that was mild compared with what I was
beginning to think I allowed it to rest at that.

I had made no promise as to Judy, which was as well, for when she came
back she was accompanied by a cheerful looking blond youth who was
evidently the one in question, and who was presented to me only as Dick.

“This is Dick,” was what Judy said. “And he is a nice person, of poor
but honest parents.”

Dick merely grinned at that; he seemed to know Judy, and almost before I
knew it he and I were standing in the lower hall, and Judy was dropping
lead pencils down the air shaft.

“Does that sound like it, Elizabeth Jane?” she would call to me at the
top of her voice. “Or this?”

To save my life I could not tell. They seemed to be less sharp, less
distinct, but I was not certain. Indeed, when Mr. Carter, for that
turned out to be the youth’s family name, tapped with his penknife on
the marble mantel in the drawing room, the effect seemed rather more
like what I had heard.

“_That_ for Wallie!” said Judy, coming down. “That pencil’s probably
been there for ages. I’d like to see his face when he finds six more
there! And now let’s have tea.”

I liked the boy. Indeed, I wondered what Katherine could have against
him. Poverty, perhaps; but then Judy would have enough and to spare when
Howard died. And Howard had already had one attack of angina pectoris
that I knew of, and others possibly which he had concealed.

Judy was clearly very much in love. Indeed, I felt that she could hardly
keep her hands off the boy; that she wanted to touch his sleeve or
rumple his hair; and that he, more shyly, less sure of himself, was
quite desperately in love with her.

But he was business-like enough about the case. He wanted the story, or
such part of it as he might have.

“It will leak out somehow,” he said. “Probably Harrison will give it out
himself; they’ll give out something, anyhow. Somebody may have seen her,
you know. A lot of missing people are turned up that way.”

We were still arguing the matter, Judy taking Dick’s side of it, of
course, when Jim Blake came in.

I can recall that scene now; the tap-tap of the glazier’s hammer as he
repaired the broken pane in the drawing room, the lowered voices of Judy
and Dick from the music room, whither they had retired with alacrity
after Judy had dutifully kissed her uncle, and Jim Blake himself,
sitting neatly in his chair, pale gray spats, gray tie, gray bordered
silk handkerchief, and hair brushed neatly over his bald spot,
explaining that he had felt ill that morning or he would have come
earlier.

“Just the old trouble,” he said, and I noticed that he mopped his
forehead. “This wet weather——”

Some years ago he had been thrown from a borrowed hunter and had
sprained his back. Judy had always maintained that his frequent
retirements to his bed as a result were what she called “too much food
and drink.” But that day he looked really ill.

“Tell me about Sarah,” he said, and lighted a cigar with hands that I
thought were none too steady. He did not interrupt me until I had
finished.

“You’ve had the police, you say?”

“I have indeed. What else could I do?”

“Katherine doesn’t want it to get into the newspapers.”

“Why not? There’s no family disgrace in it, is there? That’s idiotic.”

He took out his handkerchief and mopped his forehead again.

“It’s queer, any way you take it. You say Wallie was here last night?
What does he think?”

“He seems to think it’s mighty important to find her. As of course it
is.”

“And she’d tied the dogs to a tree? That’s curious. Just where did you
say they were?”

He sat silent for some time after that. Judy was banging the piano in
the next room, and the noise seemed to bother him.

“Infernal din!” he said querulously. And after a pause: “How is Howard?
What does Judy think about him?”

“I don’t believe she knows very much. He’s a secretive person; Katherine
is worried, I know that.”

He seemed to ponder that, turning his cigar in his long, well-kept
fingers.

“This girl who telephoned, this Florence, she hasn’t been identified
yet? They haven’t traced the call?”

“Not so far as I know.”

Asked later on to recall Jim Blake’s attitude that day, if it was that
of an uneasy man, I was obliged to say that it was. Yet at the time it
did not occur to me. He was an orderly soul, his life tidily and
comfortably arranged, and what I felt then was that this thing with its
potentialities of evil had disturbed him, his small plans, possibly for
that very afternoon, the cheerful routine of his days.

“I suppose they’ve searched the lot next door, and the park?”

“Inspector Harrison has been over it.”

He sat for some time after that, apparently thoughtful. I realize now
that he was carefully framing his next question.

“Elizabeth,” he said, “when was Howard here last? Has he been here
recently?”

“Howard? Not for months.”

“You’re sure of that, I suppose?”

“He hasn’t been able to get about, Jim. You know that.”

He looked at me with eyes that even then seemed sunken, and drew a long
breath.

“I suppose that’s so,” he said, and lapsed again into silence.

There was, at the time, only one result to that visit of Jim Blake’s. I
called Dick in and told him and Judy Katherine’s desire for secrecy.

“Trust mother!” said Judy. “Keep in the society columns and out of the
news!”

But the story was suppressed. Not until Sarah’s body was found, four
days later, was there any publicity.

The discovery of the body was one of those sheer chances to which I have
referred. Without any possible motive for her killing, the police still
believed it possible that she had deliberately disappeared. But, as Judy
pointed out, there was as little known reason for such a disappearance
as for her murder.

And then on the Saturday of that week she was found, poor soul.

I have no distinct memories of those four days of nightmare, save of the
increasing certainty of disaster, of Katherine’s and Laura’s frenzied
suggestions by telephone and wire, of Judy’s forced cheerfulness, and a
queer sort of desperation in Wallie which I could not understand.

He had joined the police in the search, visited the Morgue, gone through
her effects to find a photograph to be sent to other cities. During
those days he seemed neither to eat nor sleep, and he grew perceptibly
thinner. All his old nonchalance had left him, and at least once in that
four-day interval he came in somewhat the worse for liquor.

It was that night—I do not remember which one—that he told me he had
written me a letter and put it in his box at the bank.

“So you’ll understand,” he said, his tongue slightly thick. “So if
anything happens to me you’ll understand.”

Judy looked up at him.

“You’re lit,” she stated coldly. “Lit and mawkish. What’s going to
happen to you?”

“You’ll see,” he said somberly. “Plenty may happen to me. If you don’t
believe it, look at me!”

“You’re not much to look at just now,” she told him. “You’d better order
him some black coffee, Elizabeth Jane.”

She told me later that she did not believe he had written me any letter.
But he had indeed. Months later we found it where he said it would be,
in his box at the bank. But by that time we needed no explanation.

The finding of Sarah’s body was as extraordinary as was everything else
in this strange case.

Judy had taken the dogs for their usual walk in the park, and somewhere
there she met Dick, certainly not by chance. It appears that for
purposes of their own they had left the main park and walked through
that narrow ravine which is behind my own property, and through which a
bridle path follows the wanderings of a small stream. As this ravine
lies close to the lot where the dogs had been found, there had been a
search of sorts. The two young people, then, were not searching. They
were walking along, intent on their own affairs. In front of them a man
on a gray horse was ambling quietly along.

Suddenly and without warning the horse shied violently, and the rider
went off. He was not hurt, and Dick caught the horse and led it back to
him.

“Not hurt, are you?” Judy asked.

“Only surprised,” he told her. “Surprised and irritated! That’s the
second time this beast has shied at that sewer, or whatever it is. Twice
this week. Yet he’s seen it a hundred times.”

Well, he got on again, having led the animal past the obstacle, and Judy
and Dick looked at it. At some time it had evidently been intended to
raise the road level there, and what they saw was a brick sewer
entrance, circular, and standing about seven feet above the ground.

“Funny,” said Judy. “What’s happened to that thing this week?”

Dick laughed at her. Neither of them, I am sure, was thinking of poor
Sarah. It was a bright cool spring day, made for lovers, and he teased
her. It was a part of the game.

“I suppose that horse can see things we can’t see!” he said.

“Why not? Dogs can.”

And at that moment Jock, beside the base of the structure, suddenly
raised his head and let out a long wail.

They were rather incoherent about what happened after that. It was Dick
who finally got to the top and looked down. At first he could see
nothing. Then he made out what looked like a bundle of clothing below,
and Judy knew by his face.

Even then of course they were not certain it was Sarah. They did not
come home; they got the park police at once, and Dick did not let Judy
wait after that. He brought her back, whimpering, and I put her to bed
and waited.

It was Sarah.

They never let me see her, and I was glad of that.

She had been murdered. There were indications of a heavy blow on the
back of the head, not necessarily fatal; but the actual cause of death,
poor creature, was two stab wounds in the chest. One had penetrated to
the right ventricle of the heart, and she had died very quickly.

Only later on was I to have the full picture of that tragic discovery;
the evidence that the body had been dragged along beside the bridle path
for almost a quarter of a mile, a herculean task; the inexplicable fact
that the shoes had been removed and thrown in after the body; the
difficulty of explaining how that inert figure had been lifted seven
feet in the air to the top of the sewer to be dropped as it was found,
head down, into that pipe-like orifice; and strangest and most dreadful
of all to me, that the very rope with which the dogs had been tied when
I found them, had been fastened under her arms and used to drag the
body.

The homicide squad, I believe, was early on the scene, a cordon of
police thrown out, and the path closed from the Larimer lot to a point
beyond the sewer. But the heavy rain and the fact that the path had been
used had obliterated all traces save those broken branches down the
hillside which apparently proved that Sarah had been killed on or near
the Larimer property.

The body had been found at three o’clock, and the medical examination
took place as soon as it could be removed. The crime detection unit, a
group of specialists, had been notified before that removal, but of the
seven only one found anything to do there, and that was the
photographer. And a gruesome enough exhibit those pictures made; the
waiting ambulance, the mounted men holding back the curious who
attempted to break the line, and close-up photographs of that poor body
in its incredible resting place.

Inspector Harrison, sitting gravely in my library that night, was
puzzled and restless.

“It’s a curious case,” he said. “Apparently motiveless. She was not
robbed; the purse was found with the body, although—you say she carried
a key to this house?”

“Yes. Inspector, I have been wondering if she did leave her bedroom door
unlocked that night when she went out. If that man on the stairs hadn’t
already killed her and taken both keys.”

“I think not. And I’ll tell you why. Now the time when you saw that
figure on the stairs was at seven-thirty-five, approximately. You’d
finished a seven o’clock dinner and had got to your coffee. That’s near
enough, anyhow. But Sarah Gittings did not die until around ten
o’clock.”

“I don’t understand. How do you know that?”

“By the food in the stomach. It had been in the stomach for
approximately four hours before she died. The autopsy showed us that.
But it does not show us where Sarah Gittings was between seven o’clock
and ten. Three hours between the time she left this house and the time
of her death. Where was she? What was she doing during that three hours?
Once we learn that, and the identity of this Florence, we will have
somewhere to go.”

“I have wondered if a maniac, a homicidal maniac——”

“On account of the shoes? No, I think not, although there may have been
an endeavor to make us think that. No. Why did Sarah Gittings take a
chair from the laundry and place it in the wood cellar? Why did she
agree to take the dogs, and at the same time take a rope with which to
tie them? What was in her room that would justify breaking into this
house to secure it? Those are the questions we have to ask ourselves,
Miss Bell.”

“About this rope,” he went on thoughtfully. “You left it when you untied
the dogs and went back for Joseph?”

“I left it by the tree.”

“And when you got back it was not there?”

“No. We searched for it as well as we could. But a rope doesn’t move
itself, and it was not where I left it, or anywhere nearby.”

He got up to go, and standing in the hallway stared back at the lavatory
door.

“This Florence,” he said, “she may try to get in touch with you. She
reads the papers, and God knows they are full of it today. If she does,
don’t scare her off. Find out something. Coax her here if you can, and
notify me.”

He went back into the lavatory and stood looking up at the ceiling.

“A strong man,” he said, “or a desperate one if he got himself out of
that shaft, and he may have; and it took strength to put that body where
we found it.”

As an afterthought, on his way out, he turned and said:

“Strange thing. Both those stab wounds were exactly the same depth, four
and a quarter inches.”

Wallie and Jim had made the necessary identification, and the coroner’s
jury brought in the only verdict possible. After that and pending the
funeral we had a brief respite, although hardly to be called a peace.
Reporters rang the bell day and night, and the press published
sensational stories, including photographs of the house. Camera men even
lurked in the shrubbery, trying for snapshots of any of us. One they did
get, of Judy.

They had caught her unawares with a cigarette in her hand, and to
prevent the picture she had made a really shocking face at the camera.
They published it, nevertheless, and Katherine was outraged.

Katherine came down to the funeral. She was shocked and incredulous over
the whole affair.

“But why?” she repeated over and over, when we got back from the
service. “She had no enemies. She really had nobody, but us.”

“Is there anything phoney about any of us?” Judy inquired. “Some family
secret, or something she knew?”

“Judy!” said Katherine indignantly.

“But I mean it, mother. If we’re all she’s had for twenty years——”

Fortunately for Judy, Jim Blake came in just then, and I sent upstairs
for Mary Martin, who had been left to herself for several days, and
ordered tea. It seemed to me that we needed it.

We were five, then, that afternoon after Sarah’s funeral when we
gathered around the tea table; Katherine in her handsome black, the
large square emerald which was Howard’s latest gift to her on one white
slim hand, saddened but controlled; Judy, with her boyish head and her
girlish body; Mary, red-headed, pretty, not too sure of herself and
resentful of it—it was clear that Katherine rather daunted her; Jim,
well valeted and showing in relaxation some slight evidence of too many
dinners and too many cocktails; and myself.

Katherine inspected Jim critically as he came in.

“You look tired, Jim.”

“Well, it’s been an uneasy week,” he said evasively.

But she could not let it rest at that. Everything attached to Sarah had
grown enormous in her eyes; already she was exalting Sarah in her mind,
her virtues, her grievances.

“I didn’t suppose you’d bother much. You never liked her.”

“My dear girl! I hardly knew her.”

“You never liked her, Jim. That’s all I said. Although why you should
dislike the poor dear I don’t know.”

It seemed to me that Jim looked annoyed. More than annoyed, indeed;
alarmed. Also that Mary was staring at him with a rather singular
intentness, and that Judy had noticed this. There was no particular
sympathy between the two girls. Judy, assured, humorous and
unself-conscious, was downright and frank to the shocking point, and her
small artifices were as open as herself. But there was nothing open
about Mary Martin and very little that was natural, save the color of
her hair.

“Her mind’s always on herself,” Judy had complained once. “She poses her
very fingers, if you know what I mean. She’s self-conscious every
minute.”

And if there is one crime in the bright lexicon of modern youth it is to
be self-conscious.

Katherine, upset and nervous, was gnawing on her grievance like a dog on
a bone.

“But you thought Howard was foolish to remember her in his will, Jim.”

“Nonsense, Katherine. Howard’s money is his, to leave where he likes.
Anyhow, let’s hope he doesn’t leave it at all for a good many years.”

That silenced her. She sat very still, with her eyes slightly dilated,
facing the issue she had herself brought up; Howard gone and herself
alone. The years going on and she alone. And into that silence Mary
Martin’s voice broke, quiet but very clear.

“I have always meant to ask you, Mr. Blake. Did you receive the letter
Miss Gittings wrote you on Sunday, the day before the—the thing
happened?”

“A letter?” said Jim. “She wrote me a letter?”

But he was shocked. A child could have seen it. His teacup shook in his
hand, and he was obliged to rest it on his knee. I saw Judy’s eyes
narrow.

“She did indeed. I went in while she was writing it.”

“A letter?” Katherine asked. “Did you get it, Jim?”

“I received no letter.” He had recovered somewhat, however, and now he
turned on Mary sharply. “How did you know it was to me? Did she say so?”

“No. She was addressing the envelope, and she put her arm over it so I
could not see. That is how I know.”

“Do speak up,” Judy said irritably. “What’s the sense in being
mysterious? God knows we’ve got enough of that.”

“Her uniform is still hanging in the closet, and Mr. Blake’s name is
quite clear on the sleeve. Of course you have to take a mirror to read
it.”

I do not think any one of us doubted that she had told the truth, unless
it was Katherine. And Mary sat there, pleased at being the center of
attention, the picture however of demureness, her eyes on her
well-manicured hands, which were as Judy had said, carelessly but
beautifully posed in her lap.

“I don’t believe it,” Katherine said suddenly. “Please bring it down,
Miss Martin.”

I saw the girl stiffen and glance at me. She was taking no orders, said
her attitude, except from me.

“Will you, Mary? Please.”

She went out then, leaving the four of us in a rather strained silence.
Jim was staring into his teacup. Judy was watching Jim, and Katherine
had put her head back and closed her eyes.

“I don’t like that girl,” she said. “She is malicious.”

“There’s nothing malicious in her giving us a clue if she’s got one,”
said Judy, with determined firmness. “We don’t know that she sent the
letter, but if she wrote one——”

“Well?”

“It looks as if she had had something to say to Uncle Jim which she
didn’t care to telephone, doesn’t it?”

Mary came back then, and I daresay all of us felt rather sick when we
saw Sarah’s white uniform once more. There is something about the
clothing of those who have died which is terribly pathetic; the
familiarity, the small wrinkles left by a once warm body. And in Sarah’s
case the uniform spelled to most of us long years of loyal service.
Katherine I know was silently crying.

Judy was the first to take the garment and examine it. I noticed that
Jim did not touch it. Mary had brought a mirror, and I saw that
Joseph—who was gathering the teacups—was politely dissembling an
interest as keen as ours. Judy however did not help him any. She looked
at the ink marks on the cuff which Mary had indicated, and then silently
passed both mirror and garment to me.

There was no question of what was there. Somewhat smeared but still
readable was the word “Blake,” and while the house number was illegible,
the street, Pine Street, was quite distinct.

No one spoke until Joseph went out. Then Jim cleared his throat and
said:

“I don’t care what’s there. I never got a letter from her.”

“She put a stamp on it,” said Mary.

Judy turned on her.

“That doesn’t prove that she mailed it.”

But Mary shrugged her shoulders. I thought then, and I still think, that
at that moment at least she was sincere enough, and also that she was
enjoying the situation she had forced. For once the attention was on her
and not on Katherine and Judy, with their solid place in the world,
their unconscious assumption of superiority.

“You knew her,” she said laconically. “She wouldn’t waste a two-cent
stamp.”

She was unwilling to give up the center of the stage, however. She said
that the uniform might or might not have importance, but that she felt
the police should see it. If looks could have killed her she would never
have left that room, but she had put the issue up to us and what could
we do?

“Certainly,” said Judy shrewishly. “You might put on your things now and
take it, Mary!”

And with all eyes on her Mary merely looked at her watch and said that
it was too late.

When a half hour or so later Inspector Harrison came in he found us all
sitting there, manufacturing talk to cover our discomfort, and Mary
blandly smiling.

We had to give the uniform to him. But from that time on there was not
one of us who did not believe that Mary Martin was a potential enemy,
and potentially dangerous; nor one of at least four of us who did not
believe that Jim had actually received a letter from Sarah and was
choosing to suppress the fact.




                              CHAPTER SIX


It is not easy to tell of this series of crimes in entire sequence. For
one thing I kept no journal. For another, I must contend with that
instinct of the human mind which attempts to forget what is painful to
remember.

I do know, however, that Sarah was murdered on a Monday, the eighteenth
of April, and that the death of Florence Gunther did not take place
until the first of May. How she had occupied herself in that interval we
cannot be certain; we know that she was terrified, that at night she
must have locked herself in her room and listened for stealthy footsteps
on the stairs, and that in daytime her terror was of a different order,
but very real.

I can find only one bit of comfort. When death did come to her it was
sudden and unexpected. She may have been smiling. She must even have
been feeling a sense of relief, now that her resolution was taken. She
could have had no warning, no premonition.

Yet had she had only a little courage she might have lived.

It is easy to say now what she should have done. She should have gone at
once to the District Attorney and told her story. But perhaps she was
afraid of that, of being discovered or followed. Then too Mr. Waite was
away, and she may have been waiting for his return.

We know now that she was hysterical during most of the interval,
hysterical and suspicious, that she had built up the crime to fit what
she knew, and that the case as she saw it was precisely the case as the
police were to see it later on. But we have no details of those terrible
days through which she lived from the eighteenth of April to the first
of May.

On the Tuesday following Sarah’s funeral Katherine went back to New
York, and on the next day the District Attorney sent for me. He had some
of the papers on the case before him, and he fingered them while he
interrogated me.

“You had no reason to believe she had any personal enemies? Anybody who
could gain by doing away with her?”

“None whatever,” I said promptly, and told him of her relations to the
family. “I would have said,” I finished, “that she had no outside life
whatever.”

“She had never married?”

“Never.”

“I suppose she was in possession of a good many family facts? I’ll not
say secrets, but facts; relationships, differences, that sort of thing?”

“Such as they are, yes. But it is a singularly united family.”

“Save, I suppose, for Mr. Somers’ son by his first marriage. I
understand that he is not particularly _persona grata_.”

“Who told you that?”

He smiled.

“He told me himself, as a matter of fact. He seems very anxious to have
the mystery solved, as of course we all are. I suppose he was fond of
her?”

“I never thought so. No.”

He coughed.

“In this—er—family difference, I gather that your sympathies have lain
with this Walter. Is that so?”

“Yes and no,” I said slowly. “Walter has never amounted to much since
the war, and his father has never understood him. They are opposed
temperaments. Walter is sensitive and high-strung. Mr. Somers is a
silent man, very successful in business—he’s in Wall Street—and they
haven’t hit it off. Mr. Somers has financed Walter in several
businesses, but he has always failed. I believe he has said that he is
through, except for a trust fund in his will, a small one. But if you
have any idea that Walter is concerned in Sarah’s death——”

“I have no such idea. We have checked his movements that night. As a
matter of fact, when he left your house he went directly to his club. He
left at eleven-fifteen. He recalls your asking the time, and that your
own watch was a minute or two slow. At eleven-thirty he was at his club,
and joined a bridge game. That time is fixed. The man whose place he
took had agreed to be at home by midnight.”

He turned over the papers on his desk, and finally picked up one of
them.

“Unfortunately,” he said, “your own statement that Sarah Gittings had no
life outside your family necessarily brings the family into this affair.
Your cousin, now, Mr. Blake. How well did she know him?”

“She saw him once in a while. I don’t suppose she had ever said much
more than good-morning to him.”

“Then you know of no reason why she should write to him?”

“None whatever.”

“Yet she did write to him, Miss Bell. She wrote to him on the day before
her death, and I believe that he received that letter.”

He sat back in his chair and surveyed me.

“He got that letter,” he repeated.

“But why would he deny it?”

“That’s what I intend to find out. Actually, it appears that Sarah
Gittings knew Mr. Blake much better than you believe. On at least one
evening during the week before her death she went to his house. He was
dining out, however, and did not see her. On Saturday night she
telephoned to him, but not from your house. We have gone over your
calls. Clearly this was some private matter between them. Amos, Mr.
Blake’s servant, says he recognized her voice; of course that’s dubious,
but again Mr. Blake was out. Then on Sunday she wrote, and I have every
reason to believe that he got the letter on Monday.”

“Why?”

“Because he went out that night to meet her.”

I think, recalling that interview, that he was deliberately telling me
these things in order to get my reaction to them, to watch for those
reactions. Later on I believe he attempted to convey something of this
system of his to the Grand Jury; that he said, in effect:

“You are to remember that guilt or innocence is not always solved or
otherwise by the sworn statements of witnesses. People have perjured
themselves before this. The reaction to a question is an important one;
there is a subtle difference between the honest man and the most subtle
liar.”

So now he watched me.

“Did you know, when she left your house that night, that she was going
out to meet Mr. Blake?”

“No. And I don’t believe it now.”

“You saw the writing on her cuff. Was that hers?”

“It looked like it. I daresay it was.”

“Yet no such envelope was found in her room the next day, when the
police searched it. Nor among the trash which Inspector Harrison
examined. She wrote and sent that letter, Miss Bell, and he received it.
Unless some one in your house found it and deliberately destroyed it.”

“If you think I did that, I did not.”

“No,” he said. “I am sure you did not. That is why I know he got it. But
why should he deny it? Remember, I am bringing no accusation against Mr.
Blake, but I want him to come clean on this story. He knows something.
You might suggest to him that it would be better for him to tell what he
knows than to have us find it out for ourselves.”

I was slightly dazed as I left, and sitting back in the car I was
puzzled. How little, after all, we know of people! Sarah, moving quietly
about my house, massaging me each morning with quiet efficiency; her
life an open book, not too interesting. And yet Sarah had had a secret,
a secret which she had withheld from me and had given or tried to give
to Jim Blake.

I decided to see Jim at once and give him the District Attorney’s
message. But Jim had had a return of his old trouble and was in bed. And
as it happened, something occurred that night which took my mind away
from Jim for the time, and from everything else except Judy.

She had been in a fever of anger and resentment ever since Sarah’s
death. After all, Sarah had helped to bring her into the world, and she
was outraged. I daresay under other conditions I might have found her
determination to solve a crime amusing rather than otherwise, but there
was a set to her small jaw, a feverish look in her eyes, that commanded
my respect. And in the end, like Katherine, she did make her small
contribution.

To Dick of course she was wonderful, no matter what she did.

So she and Dick were working on the case; she in a fury of indignation,
Dick largely because of her. I know that they had gone over every inch
of the lot where the dogs had been tied, but that they had found
nothing. I think, however, that they were afraid I could not give their
efforts sympathetic attention, for except for their lack of success they
did not confide in me.

On that night, Wednesday, they had been making a sketch of the lot and
the park, but Judy looked very tired, and at ten o’clock I sent Dick
away. Judy started up for bed, but in the hall she must have thought of
something and changed her mind. She went back through the pantry, where
Joseph was reading the evening paper, and asked if he had a flashlight.
Joseph had none there, and she went into the kitchen, got some matches
and the garage key from its nail and proceeded to the garage.

Shortly after she came back to the kitchen door and called in to him:

“Where’s the ladder, Joseph? The ladder Mr. Walter used in the lavatory
that night?”

“It’s in the tool room, Miss Judy. Shall I bring it in?”

“Never mind,” she said, and went out again.

At half past ten I heard him making his round of the windows and doors,
before going to bed. At the front door he stopped, and then came to me
in the library.

“I suppose Miss Judy came in by the front door, madam?”

“Miss Judy! Has she been out?”

“She went out through the kitchen, a little after ten. She said she
wanted the ladder; she didn’t say why.”

I was uneasy rather than alarmed, until I saw that the garage was dark.

“She’s not there, Joseph!”

“Maybe she took the car and went out, madam.”

“She’d have told me, I’m sure.”

I was for starting out at once, but he held me back.

“I’d better get my revolver,” he said. “If there’s anything wrong——”

That sent a shiver of fear down my spine.

“Judy!” I called. “Judy!”

There was no answer, and together Joseph and I started out, he slightly
in the lead and his revolver in his hand. It was a black night and
starless; just such a night as when poor Sarah met her death, and the
very silence was terrifying. Halfway along the path Joseph wheeled
suddenly.

“Who’s there?” he said sharply.

“What did you hear, Joseph?”

“I thought somebody moved in the bushes.”

We listened, but everything was quiet, and we went on.

In the garage itself, when we switched on the lights, everything was in
order, and the key Judy had used was still in the small door which gave
entrance from the side. This door was closed but not locked. The first
ominous thing was when we discovered that the door into the tool room
was locked and that the key was missing from its nail. I rattled the
knob and called Judy, but received no reply, and Joseph in the meantime
was searching for the key.

“She’s in here, Joseph.”

“Not necessarily, madam. Robert hides the key sometimes. He says that
Abner takes his tools.”

But Judy was in there. Not until Joseph had broken a window and crawled
in did we find her, poor child, senseless and bleeding from a cut on the
head.

Joseph carried her into the house, and into the library. She was already
stirring when he placed her on the couch there, and she was quite
conscious, although dizzy and nauseated, in a short time. Enough indeed
to protest against my calling a doctor.

“We don’t want any more fuss,” she said, and tried to smile. “Remember
mother, Elizabeth Jane! Always in the society columns but never in the
news.”

But as she was violently nauseated almost immediately I got Joseph to
telephone to Doctor Simonds, and he came very soon afterwards.

She had, he said, been struck on the head, and Joseph suggested that the
ladder itself had fallen on her. As a matter of fact, later
investigation showed the ladder lying on the floor, and as Judy said it
was against the wall when she saw it, there was a possibility of truth
in this. But one thing was certain; however she was hurt, she had been
definitely locked in the tool room. She had used the key and left it in
the door. Some one had locked her in and taken the key. It was nowhere
to be found.

We got her up to bed, and the diagnosis was a mild concussion and a
lucky escape. The doctor was inclined to be humorous about it.

“You have a hard head, Judy. A hard head but a soft heart, eh?”

Well, he ordered ice to what she called her bump and heat to her feet,
and while Joseph was cracking the ice below she told her story. But
although Joseph maintained that she had asked him about the ladder, she
gave an entirely different reason herself.

“Abner has a foot rule in the tool room,” was her story to me. “I wanted
to measure the cabinet. Sometimes you find a secret drawer that way. So
I got the key to the garage and went out. I thought I heard something in
the shrubbery behind me once, but it might have been a rabbit, I don’t
know.

“The tool room light had burned out, so I lighted a match when I went
in. The door was not locked, but the key was in it. There was nobody in
the tool room, unless they were behind the door when I opened it. I
lighted a fresh match, and just then the door slammed behind me and blew
out the match. I said ‘damn,’ and—that’s all I remember.”

To add to our bewilderment and my own secret anxiety, Joseph brought
forth something when he carried up the ice; something which was odd, to
say the least. This was that just before ten o’clock, when he let the
dogs out the back door, he heard them barking in the shrubbery. This
barking, however, ceased abruptly.

“As though they’d recognized the party,” said Joseph, who now and then
lapsed into colloquial English. “Jock now, he’d never let up if it was a
stranger.”

But there was something horrible in that thought; that any one who knew
us would attack Judy, and the situation was not improved by Norah’s
declaration the next day that, at two o’clock in the morning, four hours
after the attack on Judy, she had seen some one with a flashlight in the
shrubbery near the garage. The night had been cool and she had got out
of bed to close her window. Then she saw the light, and because it was
rather ghostly and the _morale_ of the household none too good, she had
simply got back into bed and drawn the covers over her head.

Inspector Harrison had come early at my request, and Norah repeated the
story to him.

The flashlight, she said, was close to the ground, and almost as soon as
she saw it, it went out.

Up to that moment I think he had been inclined to lay Judy’s condition
to accident, the more so as she refused to explain why she had been in
the garage.

“Come now, Miss Judy. You had a reason, hadn’t you?”

“I’ve told you. I wanted to get the foot rule.”

“Did you tell Joseph you wanted to see the ladder?”

“I may have,” she said airily. “Just to make conversation.”

“This ladder,” he persisted. “It is the one Walter Somers used in the
lavatory?”

Judy yawned.

“Sorry,” she said. “I lost some sleep last night. Is it the same ladder,
Elizabeth Jane? You tell him.”

“It is,” I said flatly, “and you know it perfectly well, Judy. You’re
being silly.”

But she had no more to say, and the Inspector stamped down the stairs in
no pleasant mood and inclined to discredit her whole story. For which I
did not blame him.

He did however believe Norah. She was looking pale and demoralized, and
she said something about witch lights and then crossed herself. The
result was that he at once commenced an investigation of the shrubbery,
and that his men almost immediately discovered footprints in the soft
ground to the right of the path and where Norah had seen the light.

There were four, two rights and two lefts, and when I went out to look
at them the Inspector was standing near them, surveying them with his
head on one side.

“Very neat,” he said. “Very pretty. See anything queer about them,
Simmons?”

“They’re kind of small, if that’s it.”

“What about the heels?”

“Very good, sir. Clear as a bell.”

The Inspector drew a long breath.

“And that’s all you see, is it?” he demanded violently. “What the hell’s
the use of my trying to teach you fellows anything? Look at those heels!
A kangaroo couldn’t have left those prints. They’ve been planted.”

He left the discomfited Simmons to mount guard over the prints and to
keep the dogs away from them, and not unlike a terrier himself, set to
work to examine the nearby ground and bushes.

“The fellow, whoever he was, stepped off the path there when Miss Judy
came along. But he left footprints, and later on he remembered them. He
came back, smoothed them over and planted false ones. If he’s overlooked
one now——”

He was carefully turning over dead leaves with a stick he carried, and
now he stooped suddenly and picked up something.

“Look at this!” he said. “The key to the tool room, isn’t it? I thought
so. Threw it here as he ran.”

He was examining the key, which is the flat key of the usual Yale lock,
and now he gave an exclamation of disgust.

“Clean as a whistle,” he said. “Pretty cagey, this chap. Must have been
in a devil of a hurry, but he wiped it first; or he wore gloves.”

He stood there for some time, staring at the key.

“Well,” he said finally, “we have just two guesses, Miss Bell. Either he
wanted to do away with Miss Judy, which is unlikely; or he did not like
her going into that tool room.”

“But he let her go in, and he locked her there.”

“Not in shape to do much looking about, however,” he said grimly. “Now
which was it?”

He glared at me as though he expected an answer.

“I’m sure I don’t know,” I said meekly.

Later on I stood by while his men measured the distance between the
footprints and made molds of them. They sprayed the marks with something
first, and then poured in plaster of Paris which the Inspector
reinforced with the inevitable toothpicks. The result was a pair of
rather ghastly white shoes, which he surveyed with satisfaction.

“How do I know they were planted?” he said. “Well, the stride was too
long for the foot, for one thing. Here’s a small foot and a long stride.
Then the ground’s soft; they weren’t deep enough. And there’s another
point. When a man walks there’s a back thrust to his foot, and the
weight’s likely to be more on the outside and back of the heel. Look at
me; I walk in this earth. What happens? I break the earth at the rear as
I lift my foot.”

“You might try that, Simmons,” he called. “Maybe the next time you won’t
let somebody put something over on you.”

He left soon after that, greatly pleased with himself but considerably
puzzled, and carrying the two molds carefully wrapped in a newspaper.

His examination of the garage and of the ladder had yielded nothing
whatever.




                             CHAPTER SEVEN


Judy had been hurt on Wednesday, the twenty-seventh of April, and
Florence Gunther was not killed until the first of May, which was the
Sunday following.

On either Thursday or Friday of that week, then, Wallie came in to see
me.

I remember being shocked at his appearance, and still more shocked at
the way he received the news that Judy had been hurt.

“Good God!” he said. “I’ll stop this thing if I have to——” he
hesitated. “If I have to kill somebody with my own hands.”

But he would not explain that. He called Joseph and went out to the
garage, leaving me to make what I could out of that speech of his, and
of his conduct generally since Sarah had been killed.

He had searched far more assiduously than had the police, had shown more
anxiety than any of us. His gaiety had gone, and he had a hollow-eyed
and somber look during those days which I could not account for.

Nor did the discovery of the body afford him any apparent relief. To the
rest of us, grieved as we were, it at least ended that tragic search.
After all, it was over. We could not help Sarah, and the rest was for
the police. But Wallie had not appeared to share this relief.

Yet Wallie had not liked Sarah. She was not a part of that early régime
of which Joseph was the lone survival; of Margaret and the noisy, gay,
extravagant days before she left Howard and a young son both of whom had
passionately loved her, to run away with a man who abandoned her within
six months.

I found myself thinking of those days. I had known Howard even then.
Indeed, it was through me that he met Katherine. Margaret had had a
brief unhappy year somewhere in Europe; then she died. And Wallie had
needed a mother. But Katherine had not proved to be a mother to him.

He had resented her, and she had resented him. She had never liked him,
and after Judy was born this dislike greatly increased.

It accentuated her jealousy of Margaret that Margaret had borne Howard a
son, and that she had not; for Katherine was passionately in love with
her husband. And she had kept nothing of Margaret’s that she could
avoid. Even Joseph had had to go, and so I took him. Not unusual, I
daresay, this jealousy of second wives for the women they have followed,
even when that woman is dead. But it worked badly for Wallie.

Certainly Wallie was not blameless for his alienation from his father,
but also certainly Katherine never raised a finger to restore the peace
between them. Wallie was too reminiscent of his mother, fiery,
passionate, undisciplined, handsome. When he had learned that Margaret
was dying in Biarritz, abandoned by the man for whom she had left
Howard, he had demanded permission to go to her. But he was refused on
the score of his age—he was only fourteen at the time—and in
desperation he had taken out of Howard’s wallet the money for a
second-class passage there.

He was too late, at that, but Howard never forgave him the theft, and he
had made the mistake of telling Katherine.

After her marriage, when Wallie was in the house, she kept her purse
locked away. And he knew it and hated her for it. But he was not there
very often. First at school and later at college, Katherine kept him
away as much as possible. And after that had come the war.

Naturally then the relationship between Judy and Wallie was almost as
remote as the relationship between Wallie and Sarah. To have him grow
morose and exhausted when Sarah disappeared was surprising enough, but
to see him grow pale and furious over the attack on Judy was actually
startling.

He was quieter, however, when he came back from the garage. He planted
himself in front of me, like a man who has made a resolution.

“See here,” he said. “How fond are you of Jim Blake?”

“I like him. I don’t know that it’s any more than that.”

“What time was it when he telephoned here that night?”

“About a quarter past seven.”

“And he asked for Sarah?”

“Yes.”

“Why did he do that? Was he in the habit of calling Sarah? Of course he
wasn’t. How do you know that when she left the house that night it
wasn’t to see Jim Blake? To meet him somewhere?”

“I don’t believe it,” I said sharply. “Why would she meet him? I don’t
believe they’ve exchanged two dozen words in twenty years.”

“She went out to meet him,” he insisted. “I know that. I’ve made it my
business to know it. I’ve been talking to that darky of his. You know
his habits; you know he dines late and dresses for dinner. Well, that
night he didn’t. He dined early and he put on a golf suit. And he left
the house at seven o’clock.”

“Good heavens, Wallie! If a man may not eat when he’s hungry and dress
as he likes——”

“Listen,” he said doggedly. “That’s not all. He carried with him that
sword-stick you gave him.”

“Even then——”

“Let me finish, Elizabeth Jane. That cane or stick or whatever you call
it, has disappeared. It’s not in the house. It stood in the hall with
his other sticks until Sarah’s body was found. Then it went.”

He was looking at me with his tired sunken eyes, but there was no
doubting his earnestness or his conviction.

“What does that look like?” he demanded. “He has an appointment with
Sarah. He goes to meet her, armed. And then——”

“Wallie, I implore you not to give that to the police.”

“No,” he said somberly. “Not yet. But some day I may have to.”

This then was our situation, during the few days which remained before
the first of May. Sarah was dead; dead of two stab wounds four and a
quarter inches deep, inflicted after she had been stunned by a blow on
the back of the head. Judy had been attacked by the same method, a blow
on the head from the rear, but no further attempt on her life had been
made. Wallie suspected Jim Blake, apparently only because the sword-cane
was missing, and my household was in a state of nerves so extreme that
the backfiring of automobiles as they coasted down the long hill which
terminates at my drive was enough to make the women turn pale.

Of clues we had none whatever.

Because of the sensational nature of the crime the press was clamoring
for an arrest, and the Inspector was annoyed and irritated.

“What do they want, anyhow?” he said. “I can’t make clues, can I? And if
you’d listen to the District Attorney’s office you’d think all I had to
do was to walk out and arrest the first man I met on the street. Lot of
old women, getting nervous the minute the papers begin to yap at them!”

He must have broken up hundreds of toothpicks that week. We would find
small scattered bits of wood all over the place.

By Sunday, the first of May, Judy was still in bed, but fully
convalescent. She had ordered a number of books on crime to read, and
flanked by those on one side and her cigarettes on the other, managed to
put in the days comfortably enough.

The evenings were reserved for Dick. Their first meeting after Judy’s
injury had defined the situation between them with entire clarity. He
was on his knees beside the bed in an instant.

“My darling! My poor little darling!” he said.

She lay there, looking perfectly happy, with one hand on his head.

“Your poor little darling has made a damned fool of herself,” she said
sweetly. “And you’ll give me hell when you hear about it. Go on out,
Elizabeth Jane; he wants to kiss me.”

Which, Katherine or no Katherine, I promptly did.

It was then on Sunday afternoon that there occurred another of those
apparently small matters on which later such grave events were to
depend. Already there were a number of them: Sarah’s poor body found by
the coincidence of Judy being near when a horse shied; the coolness of
an April night so that Norah must go to her window to close it; Mary
Martin happening to open Sarah’s door while she was writing a letter, so
that Sarah had made that damning record on her white sleeve; Jim Blake’s
deviation from his custom of dressing for dinner and its results; Judy’s
sudden and still mysterious desire to visit the garage at night; even my
own impulsive gift to Jim Blake of my grandfather’s sword-stick.

On that Sunday afternoon, at five o’clock, Florence Gunther came to see
me and was turned away. I had gone upstairs to rest, and she was turned
away.

Why had she not come sooner? She was frightened, of course. We know that
now. Afraid of her very life. The nights must have been pure terror,
locked away in there in the upper room of that shabby house on Halkett
Street. But she knew she held the key to the mystery. One can figure her
reading the papers, searching for some news, and all the time holding
the key and wondering what she ought to do.

If she had gone to the police with her story, she might have saved her
life. But if all of us behaved rationally under stress there would be no
mysteries, and the dread of the police and of publicity is very strong
in many people. And in addition she herself had something to hide, a
small matter but vital to her. How could she tell her story and not
reveal that?

She must have thought of all those things, sitting alone at night in
that none too comfortable room of hers with its daybed covered with an
imitation Navajo rug, its dull curtains and duller carpet, its book from
the circulating library, and perhaps on the dresser when she went to bed
at night, the gold bridge with its two teeth which was later to identify
her.

Yet in the end she reached a decision and came to me. And Joseph, who
was to identify her as my visitor later on by a photograph, answered the
bell and turned her away! I was asleep, he said, and could not be
disturbed. So she went off, poor creature, walking down my path to the
pavement and to her doom; a thin colorless girl in a dark blue coat and
a checked dress.

She had left no name, and Joseph did not tell me until I went down to
dinner.

Even then it meant nothing to me.

“What was she like, Joseph? A reporter?”

“I think not, madam. A thinnish person, very quiet.”

Dick was having an early Sunday night supper with me, early so that the
servants might go out. That, too, is a custom of my mother’s, the
original purpose having been that they might go to church. Now, I
believe, they go to the movies.

But I thought no more of the matter. Mary Martin had rather upset me.
She had come in from a walk to tell me that she was leaving as soon as I
could spare her, and had suddenly burst into tears.

“I just want to get away,” she said, through her handkerchief. “I’m
nervous here. I’m—I guess I’m frightened.”

“That’s silly, Mary. Where would you go?”

“I may go to New York. Mrs. Somers has said she may find something for
me.”

Judy’s comment on that conversation, when I stopped in her room to tell
her, was characteristic.

“Mother’s idea of keeping Mary’s mouth shut,” she said. “And polite
blackmail on the part of the lady!”

So Mary had not come down to dinner, and Dick and I were alone. He
talked, I remember, about crime; that Scotland Yard seized on one
dominant clue and followed it through, but that the expert American
detective used the Continental method and followed every possible clue.
And he stated as a corollary to this that the experts connected with the
homicide squad had some clues in connection with Sarah’s murder that
they were not giving out.

“They’ve got something, and I think it puzzles them.”

“You don’t know what it is?”

But he only shook his head, and proceeded to eat a substantial meal. I
remember wondering if that clue involved Jim, and harking back again, as
I had ever since, to Wallie’s suspicion of him.

Why had he telephoned to Sarah that night? Could it be that he was, in
case of emergency, registering the fact that, at seven-fifteen or
thereabouts, he was safely at home? But we had the word of Amos that he
was not at home at that time; that, God help us, he was out somewhere,
with a deadly weapon in his hand and who knew what was in his heart.

He was still shut away, in bed. What did he think about as he lay in
that bed?

“Dick,” I said. “You and Judy have something in your minds about this
awful thing, haven’t you?”

“We’ve been talking about it. Who hasn’t?”

“But something concrete,” I insisted. “Why on earth did Judy want that
ladder?”

He hesitated.

“I don’t know,” he said slowly. “I don’t think she wanted the ladder; I
think she must have intended to look at it.”

Upon this cryptic speech, which he refused to elaborate, I took him
upstairs.

That evening is marked in my memory by two things. One was, about nine
o’clock, a hysterical crying fit by Mary Martin. Clara came down to the
library to tell me that Mary was locked in her room and crying; she
could hear her through the door. As Mary was one of those self-contained
young women who seem amply able to take care of themselves, the news was
almost shocking.

To add to my bewilderment, when I had got the smelling salts and hurried
up to her, she refused at first to let me in.

“Go away,” she said. “Please go away.”

“Let me give you the salts. I needn’t come in.”

A moment later, however, she threw the door wide open and faced me, half
defiantly.

“It’s nothing,” she said. “I was low in my mind, that’s all.” She forced
a smile. “I have a fit like this every so often. They’re not serious.”

“Has anything happened, Mary?”

“Nothing. I’m just silly. You know, or maybe you don’t; living around in
other people’s houses, having nothing. It gets me sometimes.”

I came nearer to liking her then than I ever had, and I wondered if the
sight of Dick, intent on Judy and Judy’s safety, had not precipitated
the thing. After all, she was pretty and she was young. I patted her on
the arm.

“Maybe I’ve done less than my duty, Mary,” I said. “I’m a selfish woman
and lately, with all this tragedy——”

And then she began to cry again. Softly, however, and rather hopelessly.
When I went downstairs again I wondered if she was not frightened, too;
after all, her loneliness was nothing new to her.

I can look back on Mary now, as I can look back on all the other actors
in our drama. But she still remains mysterious to me, a queer arrogant
creature, self-conscious and sex-conscious, yet with her own hours of
weakness and despair.

The other incident was when Dick received a telephone call, rather late
in the evening.

That must have been around eleven o’clock. Judy and he had spent the
intervening hours together, the door open out of deference to my
old-fashioned ideas, but with Dick curled up comfortably on her bed in
deference to their own! He came leisurely down to the telephone when I
called him, but the next moment he was galvanized into action, rushed
into the hall, caught up his overcoat and hat, and shouted up the stairs
to Judy.

“Got to run, honey. Something’s happened, and the star reporter is
required.”

“Come right up here and say good-night!”

“This is business,” he called back, grinning. “I can kiss you any time.”

And with that he was out of the house and starting the engine of his
dilapidated Ford. I could hear him rattling and bumping down the drive
while Judy was still calling to him from above.




                             CHAPTER EIGHT


I was astonished the next morning to have Clara announce Inspector
Harrison before I was dressed. I looked at the clock, and it was only
half past eight. Clara plainly considered the call ill-timed.

“I can ask him to come back, ma’am.”

“Not at all. You have no idea what he wants, I suppose?”

“Joseph let him in. If you’d like some coffee first.”

But I wanted no coffee. I threw on some clothing—Judy was still
asleep—and when I got down Mr. Harrison was standing in the lavatory
doorway, thoughtfully gazing up at the skylight. He looked tired and
untidy, and his eyes were bloodshot.

“I’ve taken the liberty of asking your butler for a cup of coffee. I’ve
been up all night.”

“Why not have breakfast?”

“I’m not hungry. I don’t think I could eat anything.”

But he did eat a fair meal when it appeared, talking meanwhile of
unimportant matters. Not until we were in the library with the door
closed did he mention the real object of his visit.

“Miss Bell, did you ever hear of a young woman named Gunther?”

“I think not. Why?”

“Florence Gunther?”

“Florence! The Florence who telephoned to Sarah?”

“I think it’s possible. I’m not certain.”

“Well,” I said, “I’m glad you’ve found her. She must know something.”

“Yes,” he said. “Yes, I think she did know something. But she will never
be able to tell it. She was shot and killed last night.”

Later on I was to wonder why he did not tell me then the details of that
killing. Perhaps he was still rather sick; perhaps he had reasons of his
own. But what he told me then was only that the girl had been shot and
that there was some evidence that her room had been gone through, like
Sarah’s. The body had been taken to the Morgue.

“There are certain points of resemblance,” he said, “although this girl
was shot, not stabbed. For instance—I don’t want to harrow you—but the
shoes had been removed. And although her room is not in the condition of
Sarah Gittings’, it had been searched. I’ll take my oath to that. She
seems to have been an orderly person, very quiet, and——”

But that phrase, very quiet, recalled something to me. Quiet. A quiet
person. I remembered then; Joseph’s description of the young woman who
had tried to see me the day before.

“I wonder,” I said, “if she could have been here yesterday.”

“Yesterday?”

“How was she dressed? What did she look like? Joseph turned away a young
woman while I was resting. It just might have been——”

He was in the hall in a moment, calling Joseph, and what I had feared
turned out to be correct. Joseph not only identified a cabinet
photograph of her, but recalled that she had worn a blue coat, and “a
sort of plaid dress, sir; checked, it might have been.”

When he had excused Joseph, who looked shaken over the whole business,
the Inspector gave me such facts as he had.

Florence Gunther had been shot and killed; the bullet had gone into her
brain and out again. But the murderer had also tried to burn her body,
and had largely succeeded. A farmer named Hawkins, out on the
Warrenville road, had gone out at ten o’clock the night before to look
after a sick cow, and in a gully beside the road, not two hundred yards
from his front gate, had seen a fire blazing.

Thinking that a passing motorist had ignited the brush with a lighted
cigarette, he went back into the house and got an old blanket and a
broom with which to beat out the flames. He had actually commenced this
when he realized what lay before him. He smothered the fire with the
blanket and called the police. But for the incident of the sick cow the
body would have been destroyed, as the family had already retired.

As it was, identification would have been a slow matter, had it not been
for the one thing which Mr. Harrison had said every criminal overlooks,
and this was that where the body had been placed a small spring, a mere
thread of water really—I saw it later—effectually soaked the ground at
this point. Such garments as were in contact with the earth, then, were
not destroyed, and they revealed the fact that the unfortunate woman had
worn a checked dress and a dark blue coat.

There must have been footprints in that soft ground, the heavy marks of
a man carrying a substantial burden; but a passing car with a group of
curious and horrified motorists, Hawkins himself extinguishing the fire,
the police and police reporters when they arrived, had thoroughly erased
them. The three detectives from the homicide squad reached the spot to
find the body, a crowd of curious onlookers, and not a discoverable clue
to the murder.

At four in the morning Harrison went home and threw himself, fully
clothed, on his bed. There was nothing then to connect this crime with
Sarah, or with us; nor was there until seven-ten the following morning.
The body had been taken to the Morgue, Mr. Harrison was peacefully
asleep, and Dick Carter had written his story of the murder and gone to
bed, a blue-beaded bag in his coat pocket and forgotten. At seven-ten,
however, an excited telephone message was received at a local police
station from a woman named Sanderson, a boarder in a house in an
unfashionable part of the city, on Halkett Street.

She reported that one of the roomers, a young woman named Florence
Gunther, was not in her room, and that as she never spent the night out
she was certain that something was wrong.

In view of the crime the night before the call was turned over to the
Inspector. Breakfastless and without changing his clothing, he got into
his car—always kept at his door—and started for Halkett Street. The
Sanderson woman, greatly excited, was waiting at the front door.

Her story was simple and direct.

She had not slept well, and some time in the night she had been annoyed
by movements overhead, in Florence Gunther’s room.

“She seemed to be moving the furniture about,” she said, “and I made up
my mind to talk to her about it in the morning. So I got up at seven and
went up, but she wasn’t there. She hadn’t slept there. And when I found
all her clothes except what she had on I got worried.”

He told her nothing of the crime, but he examined the room with her. The
landlady, a woman named Bassett, had been ill for some time and did not
appear. It was clear to both of them that the room had been searched,
although there had been an attempt to conceal the fact. But the
important fact was that Florence Gunther when last seen the evening
before had worn a checked dress and blue coat.

He knew then what he had found. He locked the room, put Simmons on guard
at the door, sent word by a colored servant to Mrs. Bassett that the
room and the officer were to be undisturbed, and with a photograph of
the dead woman in his pocket had come to me.

“The point seems to be this,” he said. “If this is the Florence who was
in touch with Sarah, the same motive which led to the one crime has led
to the other. The possession of some dangerous knowledge, possibly
certain papers—it’s hard to say. The one thing apparently certain is
that there was something, some physical property for which in each case
a search was made. Whether it was found or not——”

He broke the end from a toothpick with great violence.

“Curious thing to think of, isn’t it?” he went on. “If you’d seen this
girl yesterday she might be living today. She knew the answer to Sarah
Gittings’ murder, and so she had to go. Now, if we knew how friendly
they were, how they met, what brought them together, we’d have
something.”

And, although we have learned many things, that association of theirs
remains a mystery. By what tragic accident they were thrown together we
shall never know; two lonely women in a city of over half a million,
they had drifted together somehow, perhaps during their aimless evening
walks, or in a moving picture theater. We have no reason to believe that
there was any particular friendship between them. One thing, discovered
by accident, held them together and in the end destroyed them.

The Inspector got up to go.

“I’m going down to headquarters,” he said. “Then I’m going back to that
room of hers. Whether the same hand killed both women or not, I imagine
the same individual searched both rooms. There’s a technique about such
matters.”

“Still, I should think that a man who has just killed——”

“Not this one. He’s got no heart and he’s got no nerves. But there’s
always a chance. If he goes on killing, he’ll slip up some time, and
then we’ll get him.”

With which optimistic words he left me!

Later on in the day I heard from him by telephone.

“Just to cheer you up,” he said. “We have a clear slate for Walter
Somers last night. He played bridge from eight until three this morning,
and won two hundred dollars.”

He hung up abruptly. It was the first time I had known that the police
were watching Wallie.

From the papers, ringing with another “shoe” murder, and from various
sources then and later, I gained a fair idea of the unfortunate young
woman.

She was about thirty years of age, a quiet but not unfriendly woman.
Shy. She seldom joined the others in the parlor of the Halkett Street
house; in the evenings she took a walk or went to the movies. She had
apparently no family, and received no mail of any importance.

She had been an expert stenographer in the law office of Waite and
Henderson, well-known attorneys, and was highly thought of there.
Recently, however, she had shown signs of nervousness, and her work had
suffered somewhat.

Her life had been apparently an open book.

In the morning she was called at seven. She dressed slowly, ate her
breakfast, and reported at nine at the office. She had not been
interested in men, or they in her; but she had had one caller, a
gentleman, about two weeks before. His identity was unknown, but he
seemed to have been a well-dressed man, not young. He had arrived,
according to the colored woman servant, about eight o’clock and stayed
until nine-thirty. She had had only a glimpse of him and could not
describe him.

On the day of her death, which was Sunday, she had spent the morning
doing some small washing and mending. In the afternoon, however, she had
put on the blue coat and started out. She was back in less than an hour,
and had seemed low-spirited.

No one had seen her leave the house that night. It was thought that she
had left the house about eight, and the police believed that she had
been killed at or near that ditch on the Warrenville road where the body
was found.

But on Monday afternoon we were to learn where she had been shot.

My property lies at the foot of a longish hill. As a result of this, and
an annoying one it is, a certain number of cars come down in gear but
with the switch off, and by and large a very considerable amount of
backfiring takes place directly outside of my drive. The result is that
when, quite recently, a bootlegger fired a number of shots at a
policeman and finally wounded him in the leg, the poor wretch lay
untended for some little time.

All of which bears directly on the killing of Florence Gunther.

Dick had telephoned me during the day, when the identity of Florence
Gunther had been given out by the police, and begged me to send Judy
away.

“She’s not safe,” he said, worried. “Until we know what’s behind this
nobody’s safe.”

I agreed to do what I could, and when he came in at six o’clock, looking
rather the worse for wear, he was more cheerful. I had kept the news of
the murder from Judy until then, thinking she might hear it better from
him, and she greeted him with great coolness.

“Don’t come near me,” she said. “And don’t ask him to dinner, Elizabeth
Jane. He walked out on me last night.”

“Listen to her! If I don’t work I don’t eat, my child. These
millionaire’s daughters!” he said to me. “They think honest toil is
cutting coupons. Money’s nothing to them.”

Then he remembered something, and put his hand in his pocket.

“Speaking of money,” he said, “hanged if I didn’t forget I’d had a
windfall. Look what I found!”

He drew out of his pocket a blue-beaded bag, and Judy snatched it from
him.

“I suppose you’ve advertised it?” she said severely.

“Darling, I am this moment out of my bath. Of course I shall,” he added
virtuously. “‘Found: bag.’ Vague but honest, eh what? It’s got ten
dollars in it!”

“Where did you find it?”

“I just drove out from the Bell estate in my Rolls-Royce, and there it
was.”

“On the street?”

“On the street. Right outside your gates, oh daughter of Eve. I said to
myself: ‘What’s that?’ Then I replied: ‘It’s a pocketbook.’ Then I
shouted ‘whoa,’ leaped from my trusty steed and——”

It was then that Judy found the typed slip and drew it out. “You won’t
have to advertise. Here’s her name; Florence Gunther.”

“Florence Gunther?” I said. “My God!”

It was then that Dick told her of the murder the night before. He was as
careful as he could be not to horrify her, but the bare facts were
dreadful enough. She went very pale, but she watched him steadily, and
somehow; I got the impression that he was telling her more than appeared
on the surface, that between them there was some understanding, some
secret theory against which they were checking these new facts.

“On the Warrenville road? Then she was taken there in a car?”

“Presumably, yes.”

“Did anybody see the car?”

“The police are working on that. Apparently not.”

“And you’ve checked up on—things?”

“They seem all right. Absolutely O. K.”

Still with this mysterious bond between them they took me out to where
Dick had found the bag, and standing there he pointed out where he had
found it; not near the pavement, but almost in the center of the street.
It had shown up plainly; at first he had thought it was a bird, and
veered to avoid it. Then he saw what it was.

“You might figure it like this,” he said. “She’s coming again to see
you. She suspects something, and she’s got to tell it. Now, there are
two ways for that bag to have been where I found it. Either she saw
somebody and ducked out into the street; or she was in a car already,
was shot while in the car, and the bag dropped out. I think she was in a
car. You see there’s no blood,” he ended awkwardly.

Judy looked a little sick, but she spoke practically enough.

“Couldn’t he have shot her there, dragged her quickly into the
shrubbery, and then got a car? She must have been here at eight-thirty
or so, and the body wasn’t found until after ten.”

Well, it was possible; but a careful search of the hedge, and the
lilacs, forsythia and syringa bushes inside of it—some of them in leaf,
for the spring had been early—revealed nothing whatever.

I find myself dwelling on that question of time, which Judy brought up.
It puzzled the police for a long time, but now we know about it; the
driving about, with that dead woman lolling on the seat; the decision to
use the river, and the bridge crowded and no hope there; the purchase of
oil at some remote spot, leaving the car and its grisly contents at a
safe distance; and finally the Warrenville road and the sleeping
farmhouse. And the sick cow.

The sick cow! Everything safe, another perfect crime. And then, of all
possible mischances, a sick cow.




                              CHAPTER NINE


That was on Monday. Tuesday morning, Jim being still in bed and
incomunicado by the doctor’s orders, the District Attorney sent again
for Amos, Jim’s servant, and terrified him into a number of damaging
statements. That early dinner of Jim’s, the fact that he had left the
house immediately after it, and that he had carried the sword-stick, all
of these came out. And finally the frightened wretch told that the stick
had disappeared.

That was enough, more than enough. After that Jim was under surveillance
day and night, one of those apparently casual affairs, but sufficient to
report his movements. He made no movements, however. He lay in his bed,
and if he knew the significance of the men who moved back and forward
along Pine Street, or that his telephone and mail were both under
espionage, he made no sign.

But, although suspicion was now directed at Jim, it was only suspicion.

On Tuesday night Inspector Harrison came again to see me. I was growing
to like the man. He was to oppose me and all of us for a long time, but
he was at least sturdily honest with me, and he was to try later on to
be helpful.

He was very grave that night. He sent Judy away, to her annoyance,
closed the library door, and then turned to me.

“I came here tonight with a purpose, Miss Bell,” he said at last. “I
want you to think, and think hard. Is there anything at all, however
remote—I don’t care how absurd—which would provide a motive for the
killing of Sarah Gittings? For this second crime is subsidiary to that.
That I know. Think, now; some remote family trouble, some secret she
knew, even some scene at which she happened to be present.”

“We don’t have family scenes, Inspector.”

“Nonsense! Every family has them.”

“There is nothing, I assure you. Walter Somers doesn’t hit it off with
his stepmother, but they don’t quarrel. They simply keep apart.”

“And Mr. Blake?”

“Why should he quarrel with them? They have been very good to him. I
think Mrs. Somers even makes him a small allowance, and a man doesn’t
quarrel with his bread and butter.”

“Tell me something about the Somers family. I know they are wealthy.
What else?”

“Howard has been married twice. His first wife eloped with another man,
and died in Europe many years ago. After her death he married my cousin,
Katherine. They have one child, Judy, who is here. And they are very
happy.”

“And that’s the whole story?”

“Yes, except that Howard Somers is in bad health. He has had at least
one attack of angina pectoris. He had that here last year, while I was
abroad with his family. He almost died, and I suppose the end is only a
question of time.”

“I see. How old a man is he?”

“Almost sixty. Quite a handsome man.”

“Now, about this sick spell. When you say he was sick here, do you mean
in this house?”

“No. The house was closed. He was at a hotel, the Imperial. Sarah
Gittings came down to take care of him.”

“And Mr. Blake? Was he here at that time?”

“He was in Maine. He has a small cottage there.”

I believe now that certain of these interrogations were purely idle,
designed to put me off my guard. For the next instant, in the same tone,
he asked me a question so unexpected that it found me totally unprepared
for it.

“And when did you give Mr. Blake the walking stick which belonged to
your grandfather?”

I must have showed my agitation, for he smiled.

“Come, come,” he said. “You’re a poor witness for the defense, Miss
Bell! I see Amos has told the truth. Show a darky a police badge and
he’ll come clean. How long has Mr. Blake had that cane?”

“Since some time in the early spring. In March.”

“You have no idea where it is now?”

“Not the faintest. He certainly didn’t bring it back here.”

He bent toward me, wary and intent.

“Ah,” he said. “So you know it has disappeared! Now that’s interesting.
I call that very interesting. Who told you that it had disappeared? Not
Amos. He was warned. Mr. Blake himself, perhaps?”

“No. It was Walter Somers. Amos told him.”

He sat back.

“By and large,” he said, “we have too many detectives on these crimes.
And the family seems to be curiously interested, doesn’t it? For a
family with nothing to conceal. Now, I would like a description of that
stick, if you don’t mind.”

There was nothing else to do. Much as I loathed the idea I was obliged
to describe the thing, the heavy knob, the knife concealed in the shaft.

“This blade now, was it sharp?”

“Absolutely not. But I daresay Jim had it sharpened. He would have had
to, if he had meant to commit a murder.”

But my sarcasm was a boomerang.

“It may interest you to know that he did just that, Miss Bell. About a
week after he got it.”

He gave me little time to worry about that, however.

“There is something else I want to verify. On the night Sarah Gittings
was murdered, Mr. Blake telephoned here, I believe; to Miss Judy. At
what time was that?”

“Shortly after seven. A quarter past, possibly.”

“That was a message from Miss Judy’s mother, I gather?”

“Yes, but he——”

I checked myself, too late. He was bending forward again, watching me.
“But what?”

“I have just remembered. He asked if Sarah was here; but that is in his
favor, naturally. If he had known he need not have asked.”

“Or if he did know, and wished to give the impression that he did not.”

He sat there looking at me, and for the first time I realized that he
was potentially dangerous to me and mine. His china blue eyes were cold
and searching; under his bald head his face was determined, almost
belligerent. And he was intelligent, shrewd and intelligent. Later on I
was to try to circumvent him; to pit my own wits against his. Always he
thwarted me, and often he frightened me. In his way, almost to the very
end, he remained as mysterious as Sarah, as aloof as Florence Gunther,
as implacable as fate itself.

Yet he treated me always with friendliness and often with deference, and
now his voice was almost casual.

“Did he say where he was when he called up?”

“No. At home, probably.”

“Don’t you know better than that, Miss Bell?” he inquired pointedly. “If
you don’t let me tell you. On that night Jim Blake dined early, and left
the house at seven, or a few minutes after. He did no telephoning before
he left. We have a list of his calls out for that night. Wherever he was
when he telephoned—and we are trying to locate that—he was not at
home.”

And I felt again that this communicativeness of his was deliberate, that
he was watching for its effect on me.

“But why? Why would Jim Blake kill Sarah?” I demanded. “What would be
his motive?”

He was getting ready to go, and he stopped by the door.

“Now and then, in criminal work,” he said, “we find the criminal before
we learn the motive. I make no accusation against Mr. Blake. I merely
say that his movements that night require explanation, and that until he
makes that explanation we have to use our own interpretation. If that’s
unfavorable to him that’s his fault.”

One comfort at least we had at that time. The reporters, the camera men
and the crowds of inquisitive sightseers had abandoned us, and out on
the Warrenville Road Hawkins had thriftily piled brush about the site of
the crime, and was letting in the morbid minded at a price until the
county police stopped him.

The cow had died.

But in my own household demoralization was almost complete. The women
were in a state of hysteria, afraid to leave the house and almost as
terrified to stay in it. On Tuesday morning the laundress had come
upstairs pale and trembling, to say that the chair had been taken from
the laundry again and was once more in the room where the wood was
stored. And on that night, at something after twelve o’clock, Clara ran
down to my room, pounding on the door and shouting that there was a man
under her bed.

It required Joseph with the revolver and myself with all my courage to
discover Jock there, neatly curled up and asleep.

The matter of the chair, however, puzzled me. I took Judy and went down.
It was a plain wooden chair, and it had been left where it was found.
Judy mounted it and examined the joists above, for this portion of the
basement is not ceiled. But there was nothing there except a large black
spider, at which she got down in a hurry.

I don’t know what I had expected to find. The sword-stick, perhaps.

It was on Wednesday that I determined to see Jim, I had not seen him for
over a week, not indeed since the day of Sarah’s funeral, and if
Wallie’s state had bewildered me Jim’s frankly shocked me.

I had been fond of Jim, but with no particular approval. The very fact
that he was still idling through his late forties; that he was content
to live modestly because extravagance meant work; that he could still
put in weeks of preparation on the Bachelors’ Ball, given, each year for
the débutantes; that his food and drink were important to him, and his
clothes—all these things had annoyed me.

Nor had I ever quite believed in his feeble health; certainly he was a
stronger man than Howard, who had always worked and who was still
working in the very shadow of death. Certainly Jim was able to play
golf, to sit up all night at bridge, to eat and drink what he wanted,
and to dance with a young generation which liked his cocktails and the
flowers he sent them.

But this was the surface of Jim Blake. Of the real man, buried under
that slightly bulging waistline, that air of frivolity, those impeccable
garments, I doubt if even Katherine knew anything. He went his way,
apparently a cheerful idler, with his present assured, and his future
undoubtedly cared for in the case of Howard’s death.

There was, however, nothing cheerful about the Jim I found on Wednesday
night, lying in his handsome bed and nursed and valeted by Amos. I have
often wondered since just what were his thoughts as he lay there day
after day, watching Amos moving deftly about the room; Amos who knew so
much and yet not enough.

The two watching each other, the black man and the white, and yet all
serene between them on the surface.

“I’ve ordered sweetbreads for luncheon, sir.”

“That’s right. Put them on a little ham, Amos.”

And Amos going out, efficient and potentially dangerous, to order
sweetbreads.

Jim must have had his bad hours, his own temptations. He could have
escaped even then; could have slipped out the rear door to his car and
gone somewhere, anywhere, for his illness was certainly not acute. But
he did not. He lay there in his bed and waited for the inevitable.

He was glad to see me, I thought. He was propped up in bed in a pair of
mauve silk pyjamas, and with a dressing gown of dark brocade hanging
over a chair beside him. The room was masculine enough, but a trifle too
carefully done, as though Jim had taken pains to place the jewel which
was himself in a perfect setting. There was something incongruous in the
contrast between that soft interior, shaded and carefully lighted, with
Jim as the central figure, the star of its stage, and the man I had seen
across the street as I walked to the house. I had walked. I felt that it
was not necessary to take my household into my confidence on this
particular matter.

“Well,” he said, “this is a kindly and Christian act! Sit down. That’s a
good chair.”

He was nervous. I saw for the first time, that night, the slight
twitching about the mouth which was never afterwards to leave him, and
as I told him my story it grew more and more marked. Yet save for that
twitching he heard me through quietly enough.

“What do you want me to say?” he said. “Or to do? If the police want a
scapegoat—innocent men have been arrested before this for the sake of
the sensational press—what am I to do about it? Run away?”

“You can tell them the truth.”

“What truth?” he said irritably.

“Tell them where you were the night Sarah was killed. Surely you can do
that, Jim.”

“I have already told them. I live the usual life of a bachelor. I’m
neither better nor worse than others. I decline to drag a woman into
this; any woman. They can all go to hell first.”

I felt my heart sink. His indignation was not real. He spoke like a man
who has rehearsed a speech. And from under his eyebrows he was watching
me, intently, furtively. For the first time I realized how badly
frightened he was.

“I see,” I said, quietly. “And I daresay that’s where you left the cane.
Naturally you would not care to speak about it.”

“The cane? What cane?”

“The one I gave you, Jim. It’s missing, apparently.”

He said nothing for a full minute. It must have been a terrible shock to
him. Perhaps he was going back, in his mind; who knew about the cane?
Amos, of course. And Amos had been talking. His distrust and anger at
Amos must have been a devastating thing just then. But he rallied
himself.

“What’s that got to do with it? Anybody can lose a stick. I’ve lost
dozens, hundreds.”

“You carried it out with you that night, you know.”

“And I suppose that proves that I killed Sarah Gittings! And that I got
up out of a sick bed the other night, put a can of kerosene in my car
and shot this Florence Gunther! There’s no case there. I carry a stick
out one night and forget it somewhere. Well, they can’t hang me for
that. And I wasn’t out of this house last Sunday night.”

What could I say? Tell him Wallie’s story, that the sword-cane had not
disappeared until Sarah’s body was found? That he had brought it back,
and that the police knew he had brought it back? He hated Wallie, and I
was in no condition to face an outburst of anger from him, especially
since I felt that that too might have been prepared in advance; the
careful defense of a frightened man.

One thing I was certain of when I left. He was a frightened man, but not
a sick man. The loose sleeve of his pyjama coat revealed a muscular and
well-nourished arm, and when Amos came in reply to the summons he
carried a night tray with a substantial supper and a siphon and bottle.

Jim scowled when he saw it.

“You can leave that, and I want you to drive Miss Bell home, Amos. She
walked over.”

“Yes, sir.”

I had a flash then of the strange relationship between the two of them,
shut in there together; of suspicion and anger on Jim’s part, and on the
negro’s of fear and something else. Not hostility. Uneasiness, perhaps.

“Can I shake up your pillows, sir?”

“No. Don’t bother.”

I felt baffled as I went down the stairs.

I daresay it is always difficult to face civilized human beings and to
try to realize that they have joined the lost brotherhood of those who
have willfully taken human lives. There appears to be no gulf; they
breathe, eat, talk, even on occasion laugh. There is no mark on their
foreheads. But the gulf is there, never to be bridged; less broad
perhaps for those who have killed in passion, but wider than eternity
itself for those who have planned, plotted, schemed, that a living being
shall cease to live.

All hope that Jim Blake would clear himself, at least in my eyes, was
gone. And at the foot of the stairs Amos was waiting, enigmatic, the
perfect servant, to help me into my wrap.

“I’ll bring the car around at once, ma’am.”

“I’ll go back with you, Amos. It will save time.”

“The yard’s pretty dark, Miss Bell.”

“Haven’t you a flashlight?”

He produced one at once from a drawer of the hall table, and I followed
him, through his neat pantry and kitchen and out into the yard. Here in
mild weather Jim sometimes served coffee after dinner, and he had
planted it rather prettily. I remember the scent of the spring night as
I followed Amos, and seeing the faint outlines of Jim’s garden
furniture, a bench, a few chairs, a table.

“I see you have your things out already, Amos.”

“Yes’m. I painted them a few days ago. We’ll be having warm weather
soon.”

I took the light while he unlocked the small door and backed the car
into the alley beyond. It occurred to me that the watcher out front
would hear the noise and come to investigate, but the alley was lined
with garages. One car more or less would make little difference.

I have wondered about that surveillance since. Clearly it would always
have been possible for Jim to come and go by the alley way if he so
desired. Probably the intention was not that, but rather to see what
visitors he received, and for all I know there may have been some
arrangement with Amos, to warn the watcher if Jim left his bed and
dressed for any purpose.

However that may be, we were not molested, and I still carried the
flashlight when I got into the rear of the car. I knew the car well. I
had sold it to Jim a year or so ago when I had bought a new one. It was
a dark blue limousine, the driving seat covered with leather, the
interior upholstered in a pale gray.

“Car doing all right, Amos?”

“Very well, ma’am.”

Idly I switched on the flashlight and surveyed the interior. Undoubtedly
the car had begun to show wear. There were scars on the seat cushions
from cigarette burns, and one or two on the carpet. I think now that
these movements of mine were a sort of automatism, or perhaps the
instinct of the uneasy mind to seek refuge in the trivial. The car was
of no importance to me. Let them burn it, these people who shared the
“usual life of a bachelor,” these men for whom Amos painted the garden
furniture, these women who must be protected, not dragged in.

And then I saw something.

There was a ring-shaped stain on the carpet near my feet, well defined,
dark. It was perhaps seven inches across, and I lowered the flashlight
and inspected it. It looked like oil, and woman-fashion I ran my finger
over it and then sniffed the finger. It was oil. It was kerosene oil.

I put out the flashlight and sat back. There were a dozen possible
explanations for that stain, but only one occurred to me. Sitting there
in the dark, I pondered the matter of eliminating it before Amos found
it. Or had he already found it? Was he sitting there beyond the glass
partition, driving as perfectly as he did everything else, and all the
time aware of my movements, knowing what I had found? Did the police
know, too?

Suppose I were to say to Amos:

“Amos, this carpet is dirty. I’m taking it to have it cleaned, while Mr.
Blake is not using the car.”

Perhaps that in itself would rouse his suspicion. He might say: “Don’t
bother, Miss Bell. I’ll see to it.” And then Amos and I would be
bickering over the carpet; it would grow important to him, and if he
conquered he would take it to the police.

I did the best thing I could think of at the moment. I stooped down and
loosened the carpet, rolled it up carefully, and then hid it as best I
could underneath my long cape.

If I looked strange to Joseph when he admitted me, he said nothing. Once
Judy had said that Joseph had no capacity for astonishment, and the
thought supported me that night as, certainly nervous and probably
bulging, I entered my own house.

Judy called to me from the library, but I passed the door with as much
expedition as I dared. She and Dick were settled there over a card
table, with a sheet of paper before them. I saw that, and that Dick was
apparently making a sketch of some sort. As I went up the stairs he was
saying:

“Now get this. Here’s the daybed. The closet door is there——”

Then I was in my room, the door bolted, and that incriminating carpet on
a table under a good light. There was no question about it. A jug or can
containing kerosene oil had rested on it, probably quite recently.




                              CHAPTER TEN


A lone woman who has lived in a house for many years grows to know her
house. It is like a live thing to her; it has its moods, its contrary
days, and it has its little eccentricities. This stair creaks, that
window rattles, that door sticks.

Especially, if she is not a good sleeper, she grows to know her house at
night. All houses are strange at night. It is as though, after the
darkness and silence have fallen, they stir and waken to some mysterious
life of their own. In my house, some of these movements I can account
for. When the windows are raised the old beams creak, as though the
house is cracking its knuckles, and when we have a north wind the
skylight wails and whines. A metal weatherstrip that is, vibrating like
a string.

Then, too, a breeze from the west will set the ivy outside my window to
whispering, little sibilant voices which have roused me more than once,
convinced that I was called; and an open window in the drawing room
beside the speaking tube there will send on windy days a fine thin
whistle through the house.

But I do not like my cellar. Perhaps this is a throwback to my
childhood; I do not know. The fact remains that I go into it at night
under protest, and that I have had installed in the back hall a switch
by which a light below is turned on before any one need descend. A bit
of precaution for which I could have shrieked with rage before that
night had passed.

It was eleven o’clock when I returned, and soon afterwards I heard Dick
leave the house. His paper is an afternoon one, and so he has to rise
fairly early. Judy wandered in to say good-night, but I had locked the
carpet in my closet, and she merely lighted a cigarette and stood inside
the door.

“When is Mary going?” she asked.

“She hasn’t said. Why?”

“She’s been packing tonight. Dick helped Joseph to bring her trunk down
from the storeroom. She doesn’t seem too keen to go.”

“It’s her own choice,” I said, rather acidly.

“Well, I hope to heaven mother doesn’t wish her on us! She may. To shut
her mouth about Uncle Jim.”

But she did not go away at once. She stood there, smoking fast and
apparently thinking.

“Don’t you think Wallie’s been rather queer over all this?” she said.
“‘So if anything happens to me you’ll understand,’” she mimicked him.
“If he knows anything now is the time to tell it. And if he doesn’t, why
don’t he keep out? Where does he come in, anyhow? What’s he worried
about?”

“I do wish _you’d_ keep out of all this, Judy.”

“Why? It’s the day of the young, isn’t it? Everybody says so.”

“It’s the hour for the young to be in bed.”

“All right, I’m going now. But just to show you why I’m not going back
to New York, in spite of you and Dick—Wallie didn’t find that pencil on
top of the skylight. He took it up with him and put it there.”

With which she went away, whistling softly, and left me to my thoughts,
which were nothing to boast about.

I did not go to bed. I sat shut in my bedroom, with the carpet from the
car rolled in my closet, waiting for the house to quiet down for the
night. My mind was a welter of confusion; Jim’s evasions and half
truths, the possible significance of the oil stain, and Judy’s strange
statement as to Wallie and the pencil.

And to add to my discomfort Joseph tapped at my door after letting Dick
out and locking up, and told me that the women in the house had started
a tale that poor Sarah was “walking,” and were scaring themselves into a
fit over it. I am not a superstitious woman, but there is something of
the mystic in every Christian, and I must confess that when, at
something after one, the speaking tube in my room set up a thin whistle,
my hair seemed to stand on end.

Ever since the night of Sarah’s death Joseph had been instructed to
leave a light burning in the lower hall, and it was burning then. I
opened my door carefully and slipping out, leaned over the banister.
Save that Jock had apparently been asleep there, and had now risen and
was stretching himself drowsily, there was no sign of anything unusual.
If there was a window or a door open in the drawing room I felt that it
could stay open for a while.

I had other business to attend to first.

Jock’s attitude had given me confidence, and at something after one,
wearing a dressing gown and my felt-soled bedroom slippers, I took the
rug and a bottle of patent cleaner and made my way gingerly to the
basement laundry, stopping in the kitchen to pick up the poker from the
range. I was minded to have a weapon of some sort at hand.

I had a plan, of sorts. If the stain came out I could return the rug to
Amos, and he could think what he might; lay my high-handed proceeding to
the eccentricities of a middle-aged female if it pleased him. If it did
not come out, I could burn the thing in the furnace.

But I was very nervous, and the basement itself daunted me; the long
vistas of blackness forward, to the furnace and the coal and wood
cellars, the darkness of the laundry and the drying room. The small
light at the foot of the stairs, which turned on from the back hall
above, made little impression on the gloom, and as I stood there it
seemed to me that something crawled over the wood in the wood cellar. A
rat, possibly, but it did not help my morale.

The laundry was dark, and to light it one must enter the room, and turn
on the hanging globe in the center. I went in, shivering, and directly
in the center of the room I struck violently against something. It was a
chair, and it upset with a clatter that echoed and re-echoed in that
cavernous place.

What was the chair doing there? It belonged under a window, and here it
was, out of place again. What was it that moved that chair? And Joseph’s
somber statement came back to me, to complete my demoralization. After
all, chairs did move. They moved in séances. Chairs and tables, without
being touched.

I was badly frightened, I confess. A dozen stories of phantasms,
discredited at the time, rose in my mind. The place seemed peopled with
moving shadows, sinister and threatening, and from somewhere I seemed to
hear footsteps, spectral, felt rather than heard. And when I finally
found courage to try the laundry light, it had burned out.

Such efforts as I could make then to remove the stain were of no
practical value, and I decided once for all to burn the rug and take the
consequences.

I did one of the hardest things I have ever done in my life when I went
forward to the furnace cellar, carrying the rug. Once the light there
was on, however, I felt better. I built a small fire of paper and
kindling, and thrust in the rug. It began to blaze, although not as
rapidly as I had hoped. I stood there, watching and wondering about the
dampers; like most women, I know nothing about a furnace.

I wandered about, waiting for that slow combustion to become effectual,
examined the windows and the door to the area way, and was retracing my
steps forward to the furnace again, when I stopped suddenly.

Some one was moving about over my head.

I pulled myself together. The dogs had not barked. It must be Joseph,
Joseph who had heard the whining in the speaking tubes and come down to
investigate. But to have Joseph discover me burning that rug would have
been disastrous. I turned out the furnace light at once, and went back
toward the foot of the stairs, where the small light still burned. To my
horror, I saw that light go out, and heard the bolt slipped in the door
above.

“Joseph!” I called. “_Joseph!_”

It was not Joseph. The footsteps had ceased, but there was no answering
call. Somebody, something, was lurking there overhead, listening. The
thought was horrible beyond words.

I was crouched on the foot of the staircase, and there I remained in
that haunted darkness until daylight. At dawn I crept up the stairs, and
half sat, half lay, on the narrow landing. Perhaps I slept, perhaps I
fainted. I shall never forget Joseph’s face when, at seven o’clock, he
unlocked the door and found me there.

“Good heavens, madam!” he said.

“Help me up, Joseph. I can’t move.”

“You’re not hurt, are you?”

“No. You locked me in, Joseph. I’ve had a terrible night. You—or
somebody.”

“I locked you in, madam? At what time?”

“About two o’clock, I think.”

“I was not downstairs after midnight,” he said, and helped me to my
feet.

He got me into the pantry and made me some coffee. Norah was not yet
down; my household slept badly those days, and therefore late. He had
had a shock, however. His hands shook and his face was set. I can still
see him moving about, his dignity less majestic than usual, making the
coffee, laying a doily on the pantry table, fetching a cup and saucer
from the dining room. While he waited for the coffee to boil he made a
tour of the first floor, but reported everything in order. The drawing
room door and windows were locked.

“But I would suggest, madam,” he said, “that we change the lock on the
front door. Since Miss Sarah’s key is missing it is hardly safe.”

Norah came in as I finished my coffee, and she gave me a queer look. But
I did not explain. I went up and crawled into my bed, and I did not
waken until Joseph came up with a tray of luncheon.

He came in, closed the door, drew a table beside the bed, opened my
napkin and gave it to me. Then he straightened and looked at me.

“I have taken the liberty of destroying the rug, madam.”

My heart sank, but he spoke as calmly as though he had been reporting
that the butter was bad.

“The dampers were wrong,” he said. “It’s a peculiar furnace. You have to
understand it.”

He looked at me, and I looked back at him. Our relations had subtly
changed, although his manner had not. We shared a secret; in effect,
Joseph and I were accomplices. Between us we had compounded a felony,
destroyed evidence, and Joseph knew it. Whether he had seen the stain or
not, he knew that carpet.

“You should not have tried to do that, madam,” he said. “In the future,
if you need any help, you can always call on me.”

Then he went out; strange inscrutable Joseph, living the vicarious life
of all upper class servants. Somewhere he had a wife, but he never
mentioned her. His room at night, the pantry and the newspapers by day,
apparently comprised his life and satisfied him.

It was when he came to remove the tray that he told me, very quietly,
that his revolver was missing.

“I have been keeping it in my bedroom lately, under my pillow,” he said.
“Now it is gone. Taken by some one who knew the habits of the house,
madam.”




                             CHAPTER ELEVEN


Whatever was the meaning of that unpleasant episode, it was impossible
to go to the police with it. I was seeing rather less of the Inspector
now; he and the entire homicide squad were working on the Gunther case;
the crime detection unit of photographer, chemist, microscopist and gun
expert were at work, but I believe their conclusions were unimportant.
The bullet was missing. From the size of the wounds in the skull and the
fact that it had passed entirely through the head, they believed that it
had been a large caliber bullet fired at close range, and that the time
of her death had been about eight or eight-thirty.

The bag, then, had lain in the street for almost three hours.

Outside of these facts the murder remained a complete and utter mystery.
She appeared to have been without friends or family, one of these
curious beings who from all appearances have sprung sporadically into
being, without any past whatever. She had had no ability for friendship,
unless that odd acquaintance of hers with Sarah could be called
friendship.

Strange that two such reserved women should have found each other, have
somehow broken down their repressions, have walked, talked, maybe even
laughed together. For it seems now that during the month or so before
the murders, they had met a number of times. One pictures them walking
together, maybe sitting together in a moving picture theater, and then
one day something said; a bit of confidence, and both were doomed.

The day passed without incident, save that Mary Martin took her
departure. She even cried a little when she left, although she had shown
no affection for any of us.

Judy seemed relieved to have her gone.

“Thank heaven,” she said. “I don’t have to whisper any more. She was
always listening, Elizabeth Jane. I’ve caught her at it, leaning over
the banisters. I’ll bet my hat she knows something. And I’ll bet two
dollars, which is all I have in the world at the moment, that she took
Joseph’s gun.”

“Why would she take Joseph’s gun? That’s silly.”

“Is it? Well, ask Norah. She knows.”

And ask Norah I did, with curious results.

It appeared that on the day before Joseph had missed his revolver, Norah
had gone upstairs to her room to change her uniform before she prepared
luncheon. She wears rubber-soled shoes in the kitchen, as it has a tiled
floor, and so she moved quietly.

Joseph, it seems, was downstairs. The door at the top of the back stairs
is a swinging one, as otherwise the maids forget to close it, and it
swings noiselessly. She pushed it open, and there was Mary Martin, down
the hall and just coming out of Joseph’s room. She stepped back when she
saw Norah, and then reconsidered and came out again.

“I was looking for some matches,” she said.

According to Norah she had no matches in her hands, however, and she
looked so pale that Norah was curious. When Mary had shut herself in her
room Norah glanced inside Joseph’s door. There were matches on his
bureau, and his revolver lay on top of the bed.

But with Mary gone, and the house quiet again and with no “snooping,” as
Judy called it, I went into the library that night to find Dick grinning
and Judy with her mouth set hard.

“Well, tell her, if you think it’s so funny.”

“Tell her yourself, lady of my heart. Do your own dirty work.”

“Don’t be such an ass. It’s a perfectly simple thing I want, Elizabeth
Jane. I want to get into Florence Gunther’s room.”

“The answer is just as simple, Judy,” I said shortly. “You’ll do nothing
of the sort.”

But she was argumentative and a trifle sulky.

“Oh well, if you must have it. I want to look for something. That’s
all.”

“For what?”

“I don’t know. But now listen to this; I don’t know why poor Sarah was
killed, or Florence either. But I do know why their shoes were taken
off. One or the other of them had something; I don’t know what, but she
had. It might have been a paper——”

“Give me the papers and take the child!” said Dick.

She ignored that.

“Now Dick has struck up an acquaintance with a blonde out there at the
house on Halkett Street. She’s named Lily, and he’s quite fond of her;
he’s even had her out to lunch.”

Dick groaned, and she grinned maliciously.

“Her name is Sanderson, Lily Sanderson, and she’s rather a mess. But she
likes to talk, and she’s got something she hasn’t told the police. She
won’t even tell him, but she might tell us.”

“Who are ‘us’?”

“You and I, Elizabeth Jane; you to give staidness and respectability to
the excursion, I to use my little wiles to wheedle her if necessary.
Dick says she’s afraid of the police, but once she sets eyes on you
she’ll open up like a flower.”

I declined at once, but she has her own methods, has Judy, and so in the
end I reluctantly consented to go.

The appointment was made for the next night, Friday. Evidently Miss
Sanderson was uneasy, for she made it Friday because the colored woman
would be off for her afternoon out. And it was she herself who admitted
us when, having left the car at the corner, Judy and I presented
ourselves on the following evening.

She opened the door with her finger to her lips.

“Now how nice!” she said, in a loud clear tone. “Here I was, afraid I
was to have an evening alone, and this happens!”

All the time she was urging us in with little gestures, and Judy’s face
was a study. Miss Sanderson was a large blonde woman with a slight limp,
and she was evidently prepared for company. She was slightly
overdressed, and her room when she took us up to it was very tidy.
Suspiciously tidy, Judy said later, as if she had just finished with it.

When she had closed the door she lowered her voice.

“You never know who’s around in a place like this. It’s all ears. And
since poor Miss Gunther’s awful end——” She looked at me with her pale
blue eyes, and they were childish and filled with terror. “I haven’t
slept much since. If there is a homicidal maniac loose, nobody can tell
who’ll be next.”

“I wouldn’t worry,” said Judy. “There’s no maniac loose. Whoever killed
her knew what he was doing.”

That seemed to relieve her. She was, for all her clothes, a singularly
simple woman, and I am glad here to pay my bit of tribute to Lily
Sanderson. She had her own small part in the solving of the mystery, and
of the four major crimes which it involved.

She liked Judy at once, I think. There is something direct about Judy,
for all her talk about using her wiles; and Judy, I think, felt the
compassion of youth for her, for the narrow life that one room typified,
for the loneliness of soul which was feeding on this one great
excitement. I saw her looking about at the dreadful reach at beauty
which the room revealed, the tea table at which nobody obviously ever
had tea, at the silk shawl draped over the bed, at the imitation shell
toilet set, the gaudily painted scrap basket, and at the screen which
concealed the washstand in its corner, and behind which, I had no doubt,
Miss Sanderson had dumped a clutter of odds and ends.

“You are very comfortable here, aren’t you? It’s quite homelike.”

Miss Sanderson smiled her childlike smile.

“It’s all the home I have,” she said. “And Mrs. Bassett likes everything
to be nice. She’s very clean, really.”

Before she settled to her story she opened her door, looked out, closed
it again.

“I’m only talking because you were friends of poor Florence,” she said.
“And I don’t know if what I have to tell you is important, or not. I
won’t have to go to the police, will I?”

“Certainly not,” said Judy sturdily.

“You know I told them that I’d heard her moving things about, that
night? Well, I did. I didn’t like to say what I really thought.” She
lowered her voice. “I thought she had a man up there. That’s what I went
up in the morning to speak to her about.”

“A man?” I asked. “Could you hear him?”

“A man and a woman,” she said. “I could hear them both.”

Her story amounted to this:

She was a light sleeper, and she was wakened some time after midnight by
movements in the room above. As Florence never stirred about in the
night, this puzzled her. Especially as the movements continued.

“Somebody seemed to be moving the furniture,” she said. “Very carefully,
but you can’t move a bureau in a house built like this without it making
some noise. Even then I might have gone to sleep again, but there were
two people. One walked heavier than the other.”

She was curious, rather than alarmed. She got up and opened her door,
and at last she crept up the stairs and—she seemed to apologize for
this—put her ear to the door. There was a man talking in a low tone in
the room.

That scandalized her. She went downstairs “with her head whirling,” and
stood there, uncertain what to do. She seems to have been in a state of
shock and indignation, imagining all sorts of things. And the sounds
went on, only now she could hear a woman crying. She was outraged. She
thought Florence Gunther had a man in her room and that they were
quarreling.

Finally she took her haircurler and rapped vigorously on the chandelier.
The noises ceased at once, but although she set her door open and waited
inside in the dark, nobody came down. Whoever they were, they must have
escaped down the rear staircase.

But she could not sleep. A sort of virtuous fury possessed her, and half
an hour later she threw something on and went up valiantly to Florence’s
room.

“I was going to give her a good talking to,” she said. “It makes me sick
now to think of it, but this is a respectable house, and—well, you know
what I mean. If she was carrying on with anybody——”

The door was closed but not locked, and she spoke to Florence and got no
answer. She turned on the switch inside the door, and there was the
room; in chaos. She seemed unable to describe it. She made a gesture.

“Even her shoes,” she said. “Her poor shoes were on the floor. But she
hadn’t been robbed. Her dime bank was still on her dresser, and she had
an old-fashioned watch for a clock, beside the daybed on a table. It was
still there.”

She shot downstairs after that, trembling, and got into bed. Even then
she was not certain that Florence was not concerned in it somehow. She
knew that one of the two in that room had been a woman. Then too she
“didn’t want to be mixed up in any trouble.” She might lose her
position, and in addition she had a childish fear of the police.

“If they knew I’d been up there——”

She went asleep finally, but at seven she went up the stairs again and
opened the door. The room had been straightened. It looked better.

“Not just right, you know. But things were put away. The way the police
found it.”

“And what do you think now?” Judy inquired. She had lighted a cigarette
and was offering one to “Lily.”

“Oh, may I? I’d love to. We aren’t supposed to smoke here, but every now
and then I open a window; and——It rests one, I think.”

“Yes, it does rest one,” said Judy politely. “And now what were those
people after? Have you any idea?”

“Not really. But she was in a lawyer’s office, and they get some queer
things sometimes. Letters, you know, and so on. If she had something
like that it might explain a lot. It had to be something small, or
they’d have found it. But I’m sure I don’t know where it is, if it’s
there.”

“Oh, you’ve looked?” said Judy.

“Yes. The room’s kept locked, but my key fits it. I suppose it’s hardly
the correct thing, but she was a friend of mine——”

Her eyes filled with tears, and Judy patted her heavy shoulder.

“Of course it was the correct thing. Perfectly correct. As a matter of
fact I’d like to go up myself and look around. You don’t mind, do you?”

Miss Sanderson not only did not mind, but looked rather gratified.

“I’ll wait down here with the curler,” she said with a conspiratorial
air, “and if I hear anything I’ll rap on the chandelier.”

I was all for waiting below, but Judy took me with her, maintaining that
the very sight of me would remove her from the sneak thief class if we
were discovered, and at last I consented. Nevertheless, I was frankly
trembling when we started up the stairs. Miss Sanderson had preceded us,
creeping up with a stealth which gave the entire procedure a clandestine
appearance which was disquieting, to say the least. After unlocking the
door, however, she left us as noiselessly as we had come, and Judy moved
the key from the outside to the inside of the door.

As we stood there in the darkness I think even Judy was uneasy, and I
know that I felt like a criminal. The house was exceedingly quiet. Mrs.
Bassett, Miss Sanderson had said, slept at the rear of that floor, but
she was ill, had been for some time. And whatever was the mysterious
life of the women behind the closed doors around us, it was conducted in
silence.

Judy drew the shades before she turned on the light, and then the two of
us gazed at this strange room, from which Florence Gunther had started
out in a checked frock and a blue coat and with a blue bag on her arm,
to a sudden and unaccountable death.

It was neat now, very orderly, the daybed covered with the imitation
Indian rug, her clothing still in its closet, her shoes in a row
underneath. Practical shoes, flat heeled, without coquetry, each with
its wooden tree. Judy looked depressed and angry.

“She had so little,” she said. “Why not have let her alone?”

But she was business-like, too.

“No use looking in the obvious places,” she announced. “They’ll have
seen to that. Something small. I suppose the police took it for granted
that they got it, whatever it was. But if Lily is right——! If I wanted
to hide a paper here, where would I put it? I hid a love letter once
from mother, in my can of tooth powder.”

Poor Florence’s tooth powder was on her washstand, but although with
much difficulty and a pair of scissors Judy finally worked the top off,
she found nothing there. Then she examined the bottles on the dresser;
one dark blue one interested her, but it contained an eye lotion and
nothing else. The wall paper—“she might have loosened the paper and
then glued it back again”—showed no signs of being tampered with, and
the baseboard was close to the wall.

She reached the clothes closet, then, by elimination, and with small
hope.

“They’ll have done that first,” she said.

Apparently she was right. No pocket, no lining, no hem of any garment,
revealed so much as a hint. Save one thing, which at first looked as
though our search was useless. There was an old pocketbook in the
closet, and she brought it out and examined it.

“Look here!” she said. “She’s carried something in this pocketbook,
hidden. See where she’s cut the lining and sewed it up again?”

“It’s not sewed now.”

“No,” she said slowly. “Of course, if she transferred it to the blue
bag——!”

But time was passing, and I was growing impatient. The whole excursion
seemed to me to be an impertinent meddling, and so I was about to say to
Judy, when there came a sharp rap from the chandelier beneath our feet.

Neither one of us moved, and I know I hardly breathed. Some one was
coming up the stairs, moving very quietly. The steps halted just outside
the door, and I motioned wildly to Judy to turn out the light. But in a
moment they moved on again, toward the rear of the house, and I breathed
again.

After that we locked the door, and Judy matter-of-factly went on with
her search. She was on the floor now, carefully inspecting Florence’s
shoes.

“I used to hide my cigarettes in my slippers,” she stated, “Mother
raised hell about my smoking. I’ll just look these over and then we’ll
go.”

“And the sooner the better,” I retorted testily. “If you think I’m
enjoying this, I’m not. I’ve never spent a night I enjoyed less.”

But she was paying no attention. She had found, in a pair of flat black
shoes, leather insoles designed to support the arches. Glanced at
casually each was a part of the shoe, but Judy’s sensitive
well-manicured fingers were digging at one of them diligently.

“Flat feet, poor dear,” she said, and jerked out the insole.

It was, I believe, a quite common affair of its sort, although I had
never seen one before. In the forward portion was a pocket, into which
fitted a small pad of wool, designed to raise the forward arch.

Behind this Judy dug out a small scrap of paper, neatly folded.

I think we were both trembling when she drew it out and held it up. But
without opening it she dropped it inside the neck of her frock and
finding a pin, fastened it there. She wears so little underneath that
this precaution was necessary.

“No time now to be curious, Elizabeth Jane,” she said. “We have to get
out of here, and to stall off Lily.”

Everything was still quiet as we relocked the door and went down. Miss
Sanderson was peering out of her door and beckoned us in, but Judy shook
her head.

“They made a pretty clean sweep,” she said, “but thank you anyhow.
You’ve been very sweet to us.”

“He didn’t try to get in, did he?”

“Somebody stopped outside the door and then went on. Who was it?”

“I couldn’t see. It was a man though. It might have been the doctor,”
she added doubtfully. “I just thought I’d better warn you. Won’t you
come in again?”

She was clearly disappointed when we refused. She must have had many
lonely evenings, poor soul, and to entertain Judy would have been a real
thrill; Judy Somers, whose pictures were often in the New York evening
papers and in the smarter magazines.

“I’ve got some sandwiches,” she said.

“Thanks, no. I never eat at night.”

She saw us out, rather forlornly.

“If anything turns up, I’ll let you know.”

“Please do. You’ve been wonderful.”

She brightened at that, and the last we saw of her she was peering
around the half-closed front door, loath to go back to her untasted
sandwiches, to her loneliness and her wakeful nights.

We found the car around the corner where we had left it, but not until
we were in my bedroom with the door locked did Judy produce that scrap
of paper. And then it turned out to be completely unintelligible. Neatly
typed, on thin copy paper was this: “Clock dial. Five o’clock right.
Seven o’clock left. Press on six.”

“Clock dial!” said Judy. “What clock? There’s something in a clock
somewhere, but that’s as far as I go. It wasn’t her clock. She didn’t
have one. As far as I can make out, we’re exactly where we started!”

Which turned out to be very nearly a precise statement of the situation.




                             CHAPTER TWELVE


Just when Amos discovered that his carpet was missing from the car I do
not know. With Jim in bed the car was not in use, and it may have been a
couple of days before he missed it, or even more. I hardly think he
suspected me, although he may have.

But some time before Sunday he saw Wallie and told him. Just why he
should have told him I do not know. Certainly he believed Jim Blake to
be the guiltiest wretch unhung, but we also know that he had a queer
affection for him. Maybe Wallie questioned him; Wallie had his own
problem to solve, and he may have gone to Amos.

The result, however, was an extremely unpleasant interview between
Wallie and myself a day or two after Judy had found the paper. I know
now that he was frightened, terrified beyond any power of mine to
imagine, and with Wallie as with other nervous persons anxiety took the
form of anger.

He stalked into the house then late on Sunday afternoon, looking so
strange that at first I thought he had been drinking again.

“Do you mind if I close the door?” he demanded. “I’ve got some things to
say that you may not want overheard.”

“Then I’d better leave it open. I don’t care for any more secrets, or
any scenes.”

“Very well,” he said savagely. “It’s you I’m trying to protect.”

But he slammed the door shut, nevertheless, and then confronted me.

“I’ve got to know something. Of all the damnable, outrageous messes——!
Did you or did you not take the rug out of Jim Blake’s car the other
night?”

“Why? Is it missing?”

“You know damned well it’s missing.”

“I don’t like your tone, Wallie.”

He pulled himself together then, and took another turn about the room.

“Sorry,” he muttered. “I get excited. God, who wouldn’t be excited? I’ll
ask you in a different way. Was the carpet in the car the other night
when Amos drove you back here?”

“It was.”

“And you left it there?”

“Why shouldn’t I?”

“That’s not an answer.”

“Now see here, Wallie,” I said. “I won’t be bullied. There is no reason
why I should answer any questions you put to me. Go to the police, if
you like. Then if they choose to come to me——”

“The police. I’m trying my very best to keep the police out of this. But
that darky of Jim Blake’s blabs everything he knows. They’ll get it out
of him yet. All I want to find out is why the carpet was taken. What was
on it? It told something. What did it tell?”

I eyed him.

“Wallie,” I said, “do you believe that Jim Blake committed these crimes?
You’ve insinuated that, and that there was a reason.”

“I could think of a reason, but this Gunther thing—No, I don’t believe
he’s got the guts.”

“If you could think of a reason, it’s your business to tell it. Tell me,
at least. If I’m to work in the dark——”

“Ah, so you have been working! Now look here, what was on that carpet?
Oil? Blood? You took it, didn’t you? Amos says you did.”

“Why should he say that?”

“He says that if you got in the car and it was missing, you’d have asked
about it.”

I made up my mind then to make a clean breast of it.

“I did take it, Wallie. I took it out and burned it in the furnace.
There was oil on it; a ring of oil. Something containing kerosene oil
had been carried in it.”

“My God!” he said, and seemed to sag lower in his chair.

He had aged in the past few days. That is the only way I can describe
the change in him. That buoyancy and gaiety which had made him likable,
with all his faults, had deserted him. But I could not feel sorry for
him. He knew something; I rather thought that he knew a great deal.

“Do you think Amos knew what was on that carpet?” he asked.

“I haven’t an idea. If he did, the police may know it too; but I think,
if they do know it, they would have taken it away for safekeeping. No, I
think you and I, and Joseph, are the only ones so far.”

“Joseph? What’s Joseph got to do with it?”

He listened intently while I told him of my attempt to burn the carpet,
and of my being locked in the cellar. I could not gather from his face
what he made of the incident. He had had time to recover, and the fact
that the carpet had been actually destroyed seemed to reassure him. But
when I finished he remained sunk in a silence which was more like
brooding than anything else. I finally broke in on this.

“Isn’t it time you told what you know, Wallie? If this thing is to go
on, none of us are safe. Even Judy.”

“Judy’s all right,” he said roughly. “And I don’t know anything.”

“That’s not entirely true, is it?”

“You’ll know all I know, when the time comes.” He got up, looked at me
furtively, and then began to finger the pens and pencils on my desk. “I
suppose,” he said, with an attempt at casualness, “that you are one of
the incorruptibles, eh? A lie’s a lie, and all that?”

“I will assuredly not perjure myself, if that’s what you mean.”

“Why put a label on everything? What’s perjury anyhow? What’s the
difference except the label between your pretending you have a headache
and making a statement that might save a life?”

“Perjury is a lie before God.”

“Every lie is a lie before God, if you believe in God. All I want you to
do is to say, if it becomes necessary to say anything, that that carpet
was not in the car the other night. Wait a minute,” he said, as I
started to speak, “your own position isn’t any too comfortable, is it?
You’ve destroyed valuable evidence. And what do you do to Jim Blake if
you tell the truth? I tell you, there’s more behind this than you know.
There are worse sins than lies, if you insist on talking about lies. I
give you my word, if you tell about that carpet, Harrison will arrest
Jim. Arrest him immediately.”

“I’m not going to volunteer anything, Wallie.”

“You’ve got to do more than that. You’ve got to stick it out. There are
always thieves about, and what’s to have hindered some one crawling over
Jim’s fence and getting in by the garage window? The car hadn’t been
out, according to Amos, from the day Jim took sick; or went to bed,
rather. He’s not sick. That carpet might have been gone for a week.”

I was in a state of greater confusion than ever when he had gone. Judy
and Dick were out; on the hillside of the Larimer lot, I suspected, and
after Wallie’s departure I sat down at my desk and made an outline of
the possible case against Jim Blake. I still have it, and it is before
me now.

(a) Sarah had tried to communicate with him by call and telephone.

(b) She had finally written him a letter, which he had probably
received, but had denied receiving.

(c) On the night she was murdered he did not dress for dinner, but dined
early and went out, carrying the sword-cane.

(d) From some place, not his house, he telephoned to Judy, offering her
mother’s anxiety as an excuse, and asking for Sarah.

(e) He was out that night for some time. He offered no alibi for those
hours, intimating that to do so would affect a woman’s reputation.

(f) When he returned he still carried the sword-cane, but on the
discovery of Sarah’s body it had disappeared.

(g) Also, shortly after that discovery, he had taken to his bed,
although actually not ill.

From that it was not difficult to go on to the second crime.

(h) Sarah and Florence Gunther knew each other, probably shared some
secret knowledge. The paper Judy had found might or might not refer to
that knowledge. Certainly one or the other of them possessed some
knowledge or some physical property, or both, which had been desperately
sought for in each case.

(i) According to Inspector Harrison, the two rooms had been searched by
the same individual.

(j) The oil stain on the carpet of Jim’s car may not be suspicious in
itself, but coupled with the above is highly evidential.

To this list I added certain queries:

(a) Would Jim, under any conceivable circumstances, have attacked Judy?

(b) Was he capable of such sustained cunning as had been shown
throughout? The planted footprints, for example?

(c) Had Jim actually worn golf clothes on the night of Sarah’s murder?
If not, had he had time after his telephone message to break into my
house? Fifteen minutes, or at most twenty, was all he had had.

(d) Was Sarah in Jim’s house for the three hours still unaccounted for?

And under the heading “Florence Gunther”:

(a) Did Jim know her?

(b) Was Jim the visitor testified to by the colored woman at the Bassett
house?

(c) Why had so cunning a murderer overlooked the oil stain in the car?

I studied this last.

Surely were Jim guilty, lying there in his bed he would have gone over
inch by inch the ground he had covered; have thought of every detail,
have followed his every act, searched for the possible loose thread in
his fabric.

He knew he was under suspicion. He had only to raise himself in his bed
to see that figure across the street. Then why would he have left that
stain in the car? Why not have burned the carpet? Burned the car?

There was more than that. He was definitely under suspicion, and there
had been a city-wide search for the “death car,” as the press called it.
But either the police had not found that stain, or they had chosen
deliberately to ignore it. Why? Jim Blake and a box of matches could at
any time destroy that evidence.

It was too much for me. And to add to my anxieties Joseph told me that
day that the maids were talking of leaving. Ever since Norah had found
the kitchen poker in the laundry the haunting of the house had been an
accepted matter, and it was finally getting on their nerves.

Yet the remainder of the day was quiet enough, on the surface. Since
Wednesday night Judy and Dick had been working over the house clocks at
intervals, and that Sunday was no exception. I have no doubt that the
servants thought them slightly mad.

One by one the clocks were taken into the library, and there
investigated. By and large, I had quite a collection of odd springs and
wheels, and Dick would sit there over his wreckage, his hair rumpled,
and try to reassort what Judy called “the innards.”

“Now where the devil does that go?”

“Don’t be such an ass! Right there.”

“It doesn’t fit. Try it yourself, since you know so much.”

And with this very wrangling, which was the cloak to hide their deeper
feelings—after the fashion of youth today—they would be making love to
each other. They would jeer at each other, their mouths hard and their
eyes soft.

“Keep quiet! How can I do anything if you jerk my arm?”

“Well, you’re so damned clumsy.”

The final result, even the servants’ alarm clocks having been
investigated, was that the establishment ran rather erratically. Meals
were at queer hours, and I remember that on that very Sunday, with
nobody the wiser, we found that we had breakfasted at eleven o’clock and
lunched at half past three.

Then that Sunday night at eleven o’clock, or as near that as our ruined
time system allowed me to judge, Katherine called up from New York.

Howard had had another attack. He was better, but she wanted Judy at
home.

Judy left the next morning. Dick was working and so I took her to the
station, and on the way there I gathered that she and Dick had reached
an _impasse_ in their love affair. She stated it quite flatly, after her
fashion.

“He’s crazy about me,” she said, “but I’m a child of the rich! If he
condescends to marry me I’m to live on his salary, and a bit he has
outside! It’s absurd! It’s sublime! It’s perfectly barbaric these days
for a man to insist on supporting a wife. It’s childish vanity; the
great male ‘I am.’”

It was quite characteristic of her that she should be crying at the
moment. But she wanted no sympathy, and I gave her none.

“If you’d rather have things than have Dick——”

“Oh, to the devil with things. It’s the principle of the thing. He’d
deprive me to nurse his own vanity.”

Well, it is a problem which is confronting a good many young people
today; both of them right and both of them wrong. I had no solution, and
whatever their troubles it had not affected Dick’s feeling toward her,
for he came in to see me that night, out of sheer habit.

“Tried to pass by,” he said, “but the old bus just naturally headed in
and stuck its head over the hitching post.”

I was glad to see him. I had been very lonely; missing Judy, even
missing—to tell the truth—the Inspector, with his blue eyes and his
toothpicks and his general air of competence. He had deserted me almost
completely for several days.

And in the expansiveness of that hour, then and there I told Dick about
the carpet. He was incredulous.

“But see here: the first car the police would examine would be that
car.”

“So I think. But they may know about it, at that.”

“You’re sure Amos hasn’t been carrying oil in it?”

That had not occurred to me. I felt rather foolish, and the net result
of the talk was that Dick saw Amos the next day and learned certain
things.

On the night of Florence’s death, being a Sunday, he had been out and
Jim was alone. But he could not have taken the car out, for Amos carried
the key to the small door of the garage from the garden. The main doors
to the alley were bolted on the inside.

Not that Dick asked these direct questions. He asked Amos where he was
on Sunday night, and if any one could have got at the car.

But Dick was not satisfied. He watched the negro leave the house on an
errand, and then climbed the rear wall into Jim’s yard. There he found
two interesting facts; the side window into the garage had a broken
pane, and it was possible to reach in and unlock the sash. And there
were marks on one of the newly painted garden chairs.

He got into the building and examined the car. The driving seat and the
one next to it were leather and could be washed, but there were no blood
stains.

“Amos doesn’t watch the mileage,” he said, “so he doesn’t know whether
the car was out or not. But he does suspect that the gas is lower than
it ought to be.”

He did, however, discover that Amos had carried no oil in the rear of
the car. He had said to him:

“What’s all this about the carpet being missing? You’ve done away with
it yourself, haven’t you? Spilled something on it?”

“No, sir!” said Amos. “I never carry nothing back there. Mr. Blake’s
mighty particular about that car, sir.”

All of which, important as it was, did not help us at all. Nothing was
clearer than that Jim himself, locked out of the garage, might have
placed a garden chair under the window, broken the pane, and taken his
car out himself on Sunday night.

That was on Tuesday, the tenth of May. Sarah had been dead for three
weeks, and Florence Gunther for ten days. Apparently the police had
found nothing whatever, and we ourselves had nothing but that cryptic
cipher, which was not a cipher at all but a key.

I daresay I should have shown it to the police; but already I had done a
reckless thing with the carpet and I was uneasy. Then too the Inspector
had ceased his almost daily visits, although I saw him once on the
Larimer lot, poking about with a stick and the faithful Simmons trotting
at his heels. But he did not come to the house, and soon—on Wednesday
morning, to be exact—I was to receive a message which made me forget it
entirely for the time.

Howard Somers was dead.




                            CHAPTER THIRTEEN


So far I am aware that I have painted a small canvas of the family; only
Judy, Wallie and myself, with a bit of Katherine. As Laura was never
involved, it is unnecessary to enlarge on her. She remained in Kansas
City, busy with her children, mildly regretful over Sarah but not
actively grieved.

The one figure I have not touched is Howard Somers. Perhaps this is
because I never understood him particularly, never greatly liked him.
Katherine’s passion for him had always mystified me.

But Howard was to add his own contribution to our mystery, and that by
the simple act of dying. It was not unexpected, although Katherine had
sturdily refused to accept it, or to face its possibility. I fancy that
there must have been times after that almost fatal attack the summer
before when she was abroad, when he must have wanted to talk to her.
There are many things in the heart and mind of a man facing death which
must long for expression.

But I know from Judy that her mother never let him speak. It was as
though, by admitting the fact, she would bring it closer.

“We really ought to paint the place at Southampton, before we go up next
summer,” she would say.

And her eyes would defy him, dare him to intimate that there might be no
next summer for him.

All this I was to learn from Judy later on, trying perplexedly to
understand the situation among the three of them, and that strange
silence of Howard’s about matters which concerned them all.

“Probably he wanted to tell her, poor darling,” she said. “But how could
he? She wouldn’t let him. It was like Wallie, only worse. She wouldn’t
speak about Wallie, you know.”

“Do you think he was seeing Wallie?”

She shrugged her shoulders.

“He must have been, but he never said anything. He never even told her
that Wallie had been with him when he took sick last summer. I suppose
he didn’t want to hurt her.”

And, without being aware of it, she had drawn a picture for me which was
profoundly to affect my judgment later on; of the barrier Katherine had
for years been erecting between Howard and his son, and of a
relationship there perhaps closer than she imagined. The two driven to
meetings practically clandestine, and Wallie with Margaret’s charm, her
eyes, much of her beauty, making his definite claim on his father’s
affection.

A conversation I was to have with Doctor Simonds later on was to confirm
this.

“Whatever their trouble had been,” he said, “they had patched it up.
Wallie was there every day. For a night or two he slept there, in the
suite. Later on he relieved the nurse for a daily walk. He was Johnny on
the spot all through.”

He had insisted on knowing his father’s condition, and had gone rather
pale when he learned it.

“How long?”

“A year. Two years. Nobody can say. It might even be longer.”

But that was some time later.

Howard had died on Tuesday night, or rather some time early on Wednesday
morning. A footman called me to the telephone, but it was, of all people
in the world, Mary Martin who spoke to me.

“I am sorry to have bad news for you,” she began, and went on to tell
me. Mr. Somers had seemed fairly well during the evening. Miss Judy had
sat with him until after eleven. At eleven Evans, his valet, had brought
a whisky and soda and placed it in his bedroom, and a short time after
that Judy had gone to bed.

Katherine had found him in the morning, in his dressing gown and
slippers, lying across the bed as he had fallen.

I took the eleven o’clock train and was at the apartment at something
after two that afternoon. Mary was in the hall when I was admitted, her
red head flaming over her decorous black frock. She was talking
competently and quietly with what I gathered was an undertaker’s
assistant, and she greeted me with considerable manner.

“Mrs. Somers is trying to get some rest,” she said. “Have you lunched,
or shall I order something for you?”

“I have lunched, Mary. When did it happen?”

“The doctors think between three and four this morning. It was his
heart.”

“Then there will be no inquest?”

“Inquest?” I thought she looked at me strangely, as though I had shocked
her. “No. It was not unexpected.”

She went on, as she led me to my room. The doctors had not been
surprised. He had died very quietly, that was one comforting thing. And
she had notified the family. She had called up Mr. Blake, and had
telegraphed Laura. Also—she hoped this was all right—she had sent a
wire to Mr. Walter.

“Why not?” I said rather sharply. “He is his son. And is Mr. Blake
coming?”

“He will try to be here for the funeral.”

Judy was shut away with Katherine, who seemed to be dazed and entirely
unprepared. In my room I had time to think. Mary was there, apparently
at home; and as Judy had predicted, Maude Palmer was gone. She had
worked fast, I reflected, had Mary Martin. She had been out of my house
less than a week, and there she was.

I know now what happened, how it came about. Katherine has told me.

On the Friday before Mary had called at the apartment and asked for
Katherine, Katherine was dictating letters in that small room off the
great drawing room which she likes to call her study. She went out and
Mary was waiting in the hall, soft voiced and assured. Within the next
half hour she had told her things we had never dreamed she knew, about
the sword-cane, for example, and Jim’s refusal to alibi himself the
night of Sarah’s murder. She knew—or guessed—that he was not ill but
hiding, and then, bending forward and speaking cautiously, she told her
that the carpet was missing from Jim’s car.

Katherine was stunned.

“How do you know that?” she demanded sharply. “Amos, I suppose.”

“Partly Amos. Partly my own eyes. Miss Bell tried to burn it, but it
didn’t burn. When I went down to breakfast the cook told me the poker
was missing, and I found it in the cellar. So I looked about, and the
carpet was there. It was in the furnace.”

“You’d swear to that?”

“Not necessarily,” said Mary, and sat waiting for Katherine to
comprehend that.

Within an hour Katherine had dismissed poor Maude Palmer, who had been
her secretary for five years, giving her two months’ salary in advance,
and the next morning Mary Martin was threading a new ribbon into the
machine in that small neat room where Katherine attended to the various
duties of a woman of wealth and position.

What were her thoughts as she sat there? Was she exultant or depressed?
She may have been frightened. Indeed, I think now that she was, for some
time during that day she asked Katherine not to tell me she was there.

“Why?” Katherine asked. “Miss Bell would be glad to know that you are in
a good position.”

“She would think I had used what I know, to my own advantage.”

Katherine gave that faint cold smile of hers, and the girl flushed. But
in the end she agreed to say nothing, for a time at least.

“Of course, when Miss Judy comes back——” she said.

“It may be all right then,” Mary said quietly, and turned back to her
machine.

Incomprehensible, that girl, now as I look back; hiding as definitely
and more safely than Jim was hiding. She never gave even Katherine the
address of her room downtown. She must have felt safe too for the first
time, for on that night, as we know now, the night of the day she was
engaged, she walked out on the Brooklyn Bridge and dropped something
into the water. She had not tied a string around it, and as it fell the
paper blew away.

Then she walked uptown to a branch post office, bought a stamped
envelope and sent a note to Wallie. Not giving him her address; just a
line or two. After that she went to her room and “slept very well.”

Anyhow there she was, established, settled in that handsome Park Avenue
apartment where a dozen servants moved quietly about in the early hours
of the day, later on to disappear and only emerge on the ringing of
bells or the ritual of the table. What she felt I have no idea. She
adapted herself, I fancy. She had learned a good bit while with me. But
she was there for a definite purpose. That over she moved on. Vanished.
A queer girl, I think now; not entirely explicable, even by the light of
what we now know.

I settled down, then, to the hushed routine of a house in mourning.
Katherine did not appear. People called, spoke in low voices, went away.
Flowers began to arrive, and Mary entered the names of the senders
neatly in a small book. She was to stay there at night now, until after
the funeral.

I thought she looked changed, not so pretty and rather worn. Once,
carrying some cards into her room to be entered, I found her with her
head on her desk, and I thought that she was crying. But she was not
crying. Her eyes were defiant and rather hard.

I had not the faintest idea that there was any mystery about Howard’s
death until I talked to Judy. Then I was fairly stunned.

And as the apartment itself figures in that story of hers, I must begin
by describing it.

It is of the duplex type; on the lower floor are the large drawing room,
a small living room, a library, and Katherine’s study. Behind these,
along a corridor, lie the long dining room, the pantry, kitchen and
servants’ rooms, and above, connecting by a front and rear staircase,
are the family rooms; Katherine’s boudoir connecting with her bedroom,
Howard’s study opening from his. Judy’s room, guest chambers, a room for
Katherine’s maid and a small sewing and pressing room opening from it,
constitute the remainder of that floor.

On that Tuesday evening, then, Judy met Mary in the lower hall preparing
to go. Judy was resentful of her presence in the house and inclined to
be short with her, but Mary detained her.

“I don’t think your father ought to be alone at night,” she said.

Judy eyed her.

“And why?”

“Because he’s a very sick man. If he—if he should take sick in the
night, he mightn’t be able to call for help.”

“We have no intention of neglecting him,” said Judy shortly, and turned
away.

But she was worried nevertheless, and she spent that evening with Howard
in the study off his bedroom. He had a heavy cold and was rather
uncomfortable. Mostly he read, and when at eleven o’clock Evans, his
valet, brought the highball and placed it beside the bed in the bedroom,
she prepared to leave him.

What followed she had not yet told her mother.

The telephone rang, and Judy herself answered it. It was for Howard,
apparently a long distance call, and he appeared rather surprised when
he answered it.

“Tonight?” he said. “Where are you? It’s pretty late. You’ll be a couple
of hours yet.”

But in the end he agreed, and Judy said he seemed thoughtful as he hung
up the receiver.

“Your Uncle Jim,” he said. “He’s motoring up. I thought he was ill.”

“He has been,” said Judy, thinking hard. “I wish you wouldn’t see him,
father. He’ll upset you.”

“Why?”

“I don’t know. He’s in trouble, father. Of course it’s silly, but the
police are trying to connect him with Sarah, and all that.”

“Nonsense! Why should he want to do away with Sarah? It’s an outrage.”

She wanted to wait up, but he said Jim had been very urgent that his
visit be kept a secret. He proposed to come in by the service entrance
and up the stairs, and she was to unlock that door on the floor below.
He called up the night watchman while she was still there and asked him
to admit a visitor there, or better still, to open the door onto the
alley and go away. He was smiling when he hung up the receiver.

“Probably thinks I’m receiving my bootlegger,” he said.

“Or a lady, father!” said Judy. “I think I’ll tell mother!”

“Your mother is not to know. He’s very insistent about that.”

She persuaded him to go to bed and see Jim there, and after he was
settled she went in and herself gave him a book and fixed his light.

“Door unlocked?” he asked.

“All fixed.”

He had not touched the whisky in the glass at that time. She remembered
that.

She kissed him good-night and went to her own room. But she was very
uneasy. How Jim had escaped surveillance did not interest her, but she
was fearful for Howard; Jim bursting in on him with that whole hideous
story, perhaps begging for help to escape, perhaps—she says this
entered her mind—perhaps even confessing.

She heard no footsteps by two o’clock, and she dozed off. At three she
wakened suddenly, sat up and finally got up. She went along the corridor
to her father’s door, and listened. She could hear voices, one low and
quiet, her father’s louder and irritated.

Shortly after that she had heard a sort of thud, “Like somebody
falling,” she said with a shiver. She had sat up and listened, but it
was not repeated, and soon after that she heard Jim come out and close
the door.

She went to sleep after that.

At nine o’clock the next morning she was wakened by a shriek and the
sound of a chair being overturned. Quick as she had been to throw on a
dressing gown and run out, Mary Martin was before her. She was standing
staring into Howard’s room, where Katherine lay in a faint on the floor,
and Howard was quite peacefully dead across his bed.

He was in his dressing gown, a thing of heavy dark brocade, and his face
according to Judy was very quiet and very peaceful. Whatever his last
thoughts had been, if indeed he had any, they were wiped clean.

Some weeks afterward Inspector Harrison was to give me a little talk on
just such things.

“There is no expression on a dead face,” he said. “In two minutes it’s
wiped clean, like a slate. All this stuff about expressions of horror on
murdered people is pure nonsense. I’ve seen a fellow beaten to death,
and he looked as peaceful as though he’d died in his bed.”

Judy called for help, and the servants flocked in. Katherine’s maid, a
hysterical Frenchwoman, was entirely helpless, and it was Mary Martin
who threw up the windows and ran into Howard’s bedroom for water.

“But she dropped the glass,” said Judy, gazing at me with reddened eyes.
“She took the highball glass from beside the bed and dropped it on the
bathroom floor. It broke into bits. I want to know why she did that.
There were glasses in the bathroom.”

I tried to reassure her. After all, her father had been a dying man for
some time. And any one might drop a glass. But she was not satisfied.

“How did she get there so quickly?” she demanded. “It’s as though she
was waiting for it.”

I advised her to say nothing, especially to Katherine in her grief. But
she only made a small gesture.

“She’ll know soon enough that Uncle Jim was here,” she said. “The night
watchman saw him. And he told Evans this morning when he heard that
father was—gone. All the servants know it, probably.”

“He recognized your Uncle Jim?”

“I don’t know. He knows somebody was here.”

“And the doctors? They think everything is all right? I mean, that it
was his heart?”

“Why would they think anything else?” she said drearily. “If it was
poison——”

“Hush, Judy.”

I got through the remainder of the day somehow; not for years had we
faced an emergency without Sarah, and I missed her now.

Sarah would have taken hold; would have put Katherine to bed matter of
factly and with authority, have driven out that hysterical Frenchwoman
who was wringing her hands in the servants’ hall, have given us all
sedatives or got the doctor to order them, and then flat-footedly and as
if death were as normal as living, have read a book until we were all
safely asleep.

But Sarah was gone. Florence Gunther was gone. And now Howard.




                            CHAPTER FOURTEEN


Wallie arrived that evening. Katherine was still shut in her room. Now
and then Judy would wander in, but Katherine was absorbed in her grief,
alone with it. She would kiss Judy and then forget she was there.

But she made a ghastly mistake when she refused to see Wallie. One
gesture from her then, one bit of recognition of their common grief,
their common loss, and things would have been different.

Whatever might be his weaknesses, Wallie had cared about his father, and
he looked stricken when I went in to see him. His face was blank and
expressionless, and he had little to say. He sat slumped in his chair,
and for the first time I saw a hint of gray in his hair. He was only in
his middle thirties, but he might have been fifty as he sat there.

“It was the heart, of course?”

“Yes. It was bound to come before long, anyhow, Wallie.”

He seemed to hesitate, to bring his next question out with an effort.

“Then there was no post-mortem?”

“No.”

“I asked for _her_, but I suppose she won’t see me.”

“She’s not seeing any one, Wallie. I haven’t seen her myself.”

“Does she know I’m here?” he insisted.

“I told her, yes. Through the door. She’s quite shut away, Wallie.”

But I did not tell him that I had urged her and had been refused. It had
seemed to me that death ought to wipe out old angers, old jealousies.
But she had been coldly stubborn, would not even unlock her door.

“I have no intention of seeing him, Elizabeth. Do go away.”

“Shall I tell him you will see him later? He seems to think it is
important.”

“Nothing is important, and I never want to see him again.”

Of course that was pure hysteria, but no man has ever understood a
woman’s hysteria.

Mary Martin came in just then with a number of telegrams, but he did not
so much as look at her. She glanced at him, waited a moment, then put
down the telegrams and went quietly away.

“Give her a little time, Wallie,” I begged him.

“No,” he said. “She’s had her chance. I’m through.”

His face had hardened. It was as though he had come with some overture
of peace, and the impulse had died as I looked at him. He was standing
in the big drawing room, with its tapestries, its famous paintings, its
well-known collection of eighteenth century French furniture, and I saw
him look around as if appraising it. Then he smiled unpleasantly.

“She has good taste,” he said. “Good taste but bad judgment. I daresay I
can see _him_? After all, he was my father.”

I asked no one’s permission for that, and he had had about five minutes
alone with Howard before he left. Judy took him to the door and left him
there. It must have been five minutes of pure agony, knowing what we
know now, but he came out quietly enough.

When he left I thought I saw Mary waiting in the hall, but she
disappeared when she saw me. She was staying for the night, working late
in order to attend to all the detail, and I could still hear her at her
desk when at last I went up to bed.

But I did not sleep. I had taken two cups of coffee, and my mind was
racing like a mill stream. The news that Jim Blake had been with Howard,
that for all his pretended illness he had driven his car the night
before to New York, arriving stealthily after that long distance call,
had been a profound shock.

True, that might have been explicable. He was in great trouble. He might
have felt the need of Howard, of some balanced judgment. But suppose
that the shock of his story had destroyed Howard? Suppose he had died
before Jim left?

Suppose the thud Judy had heard had been his body as it fell? Then why
had Jim slipped away like a thief in the night? His own sister in a room
beyond, with only her boudoir intervening, and he had not called her.

It seemed monstrous, inhuman.

Then of course Judy’s suspicions played their part. We would probably
never know the truth. Unless we told Katherine the whole story she would
never permit an examination of the body, and to tell her the story was
to involve her own brother.

So I turned and re-turned. How long could this visit be kept under
cover? Not long. The servants knew, and from the servants to Mary Martin
was only a step. Then, when it was known, what? How would the police
argue? That Jim had made a confession to Howard, and that the shock had
killed him? Certainly they could argue that this secret visit of Jim’s
was not the act of a consciously innocent man.

But what did any of them know, after all? That Howard had had a visitor,
but not necessarily that visitor’s identity. Or did Mary suspect who
that visitor had been? Moving in her mysterious way among us all, never
of us but among us, unfathomable, shrewd, unscrupulous when she chose to
be, she had her own methods, her own purposes.

Suppose then that she made inquiries downstairs? Suppose she had talked
to the night watchman, got a description of the visitor, was proposing
to give that description to Wallie?

And Wallie perhaps already suspicious, asking about a post-mortem, maybe
about to demand one.

Still, she had broken the glass. Why should she do that? What picture
had been in her mind? Did she suspect or did she know of something—a
powder perhaps—shaken into that glass beside the bed, and Howard
drinking it? Sitting there, talking maybe, and drinking it.

Where was the glass now? She had broken it, but the pieces would be
somewhere about. Suppose they were, and Wallie was suspicious? Suppose
he had gone to the police that night, and early morning would find the
trash-can examined, and Jim’s guilt proved beyond a doubt?

I thought that it would kill Katherine.

Outside it was raining, a heavy spring shower. I got out of bed and
paced the floor in my bare feet, to the accompaniment of heavy thunder
and the beating of the rain on neighboring roofs. Suppose I got those
pieces of glass and disposed of them? Hid them and then carried them
off? Dropped them in a river or out of the window of a railway carriage?
Innocent or guilty, they would be gone.

Looking back, I know that I was not entirely normal that night, but I
was on the verge of desperation. I was ready to pay any price for peace.
It did not even seem to be important that Jim Blake might be a
cold-blooded and deadly killer; what mattered was that it should not be
known, that we be allowed to go back to our quiet lives once more, that
no scandal break to involve us all.

So, thinking or not thinking, I put on a dressing gown and went quietly
down the stairs.

As I have said, the dining room, kitchen, pantries and so on are at the
rear of a long hall. One passes from the dining room through a butler’s
pantry into the kitchen, and beyond the kitchen, opening from a rear
hallway, is a small cement-floored room in which is the dumb-waiter by
which refuse cans and so on are lowered to the basement, there to be
collected. This room I knew well. During the day it was there that the
boxes had been taken as the flowers were unwrapped, and when last I saw
it that day it had been waist deep in paper.

To this room, therefore, I went. Save the dumb-waiter, there is no
access to it other than by the one door, and I felt my way along in the
darkness, fearful of rousing the servants. But outside the door I
stopped, almost paralyzed with amazement. Some one was in the room.
There was the stealthy movement of paper, the sound of a lid being
fitted cautiously onto a can.

It took all my courage to fling that door open, and for a moment, after
the darkness, the blaze of light almost blinded me. Then I saw, sitting
calmly on the floor, Mary Martin. She was looking at me with a half
smile, and the light on her red hair was positively dazzling.

“Good heavens, how you scared me!” she said.

“What on earth are you doing here?”

“I couldn’t sleep,” she said, “and I got to worrying about a card. That
bunch of orchids and lilies of the valley—the card’s been thrown away.”

She had emptied one of the trash-cans onto a paper before her. Now she
ran her fingers through the debris, the flotsam and jetsam of the day; a
chipped cup, bits of string, old envelopes, even sweepings from the
floors. And suddenly she picked something up and waved it before me.

“Here it is,” she said. “Now I can sleep in peace.”

I do not know why I felt that she was acting. Perhaps the open window
had something to do with it; the rain driving in and blowing over her,
and that assumption of hers that this was as it should be; that she
liked sitting in that chaos and allowing the rain to wet one of those
alluring negligees which she affected.

“Why don’t you close that window?”

She drew her kimono about her, and got up.

“I will,” she said. “Not that I suppose it matters here.”

And then, at the window with her back to me, I saw her release her
clutch on the kimono, so that it blew out into the room, and I saw her
lower the window with one hand. I knew then that she had dropped
something over the sill.

And I saw another thing. There were no bits of glass among the trash on
that paper. If she had thrown them out, as I suspected, the rain would
wash them clean of evidence. They were gone.

But lying in bed later on I was bewildered beyond thought. Had this
unfathomable girl lain awake as I had, reached the same conclusion,
acted on the same impulse? Or was there something more sinister there,
some knowledge I did not possess which she did? And once again I was
back in my house at home, hearing that desperate weeping of hers.

“It’s nothing. I was low in my mind. That’s all.”

I have rather a confused memory of the next two days. I recall that
early the next morning I made an excursion into the courtyard of the
building, but without much result. It was still raining, and although
here and there I could see very small pieces of glass, there was nothing
large enough to be worth salvage. Which was not surprising, considering
that if I was right they had had a sheer drop of twelve stories.

Dick Carter appeared on Thursday. I did not know he had come until I saw
him in the library with Judy. I happened to walk in on them, and I saw
at once that things were not well between them. He was standing at a
window, staring out, and Judy was huddled in a chair.

“I don’t see what difference it makes,” she was saying.

“Don’t you? Well, I do.”

Nevertheless, it was from Dick that I got the first intimation that some
one besides myself was suspicious of Howard’s death. Judy had
disappeared, but the boy stayed around after she had gone, uncomfortable
but apparently determined.

“I suppose it’s all right?” he said to me. “No chance of anything queer,
eh?”

“What do you think?”

“I don’t know. Suppose Blake told him something and the shock killed
him; that’s not murder. That is, supposing it _was_ Blake.”

“Good heavens! Do you think it was some one else?”

“Well, figure it out for yourself. Blake’s sick, or he says he is. But
he comes here in the middle of the night, driving his own car for
ninety-odd miles, sees Mr. Somers and gets back, presumably, at daylight
or thereabouts. That’s some drive for a sick man. Then all this secrecy.
Why? The police couldn’t have stopped him if he’d wanted to take a train
and come here. They’ve got nothing on him yet. All he had to do was to
pack a bag and come. Or hire an ambulance! He’s coming for the funeral,
isn’t he?”

I sat down. My knees were shaking. Dick looked at his watch.

“What time does the night watchman come on duty?”

“I haven’t an idea.”

“Well, he’s the boy to see.”

I made up my mind then to tell him about Mary and the glass, and I did
so. He listened attentively, but when I told him she had actually found
the card, and that I was not certain she had thrown anything from the
window, he made rather light of it.

“Wait a minute,” he said. “Now either we’ve got another crime or we
haven’t. In the first place, who would want to kill a man who had only a
few months to live anyhow? But grant that. Grant that there was poison
in the glass. Something quick, like cyanide. First we have to admit that
Howard Somers, drinking a highball, is talking to some one he knows, and
trusts. He’s not scared. He’s drinking a highball. But you’ve got to go
further; you’ve got to figure that Mary Martin knew he was going to be
murdered, and how. Yet she warns Judy that he’s not to be left alone at
night. Only did she do that?”

“I haven’t an idea,” I said dismally.

“I suppose there’s no chance of a post-mortem?”

“Not unless we told Mrs. Somers; and not then. It’s her brother who is
involved.”

Naturally we said nothing to Judy of all this, and the day passed
quietly enough, people coming and going, more flowers, and Mary keeping
her neat entries and moving decorously about. Once I caught her eyes on
me, a curious speculative look in them, and I thought she was depressed
all of that day.

Late in the afternoon she asked to be allowed to go home for the night,
and I told her to go. She remained to dinner and left at nine o’clock,
and at nine-fifteen Dick called me on the telephone.

“Listen,” he said, “I’m at a drug store around the corner. I wanted to
tell you; there may be something in what we discussed today.”

“Yes?”

“The lady in question—do you get that?”

“Yes. All right.”

“She’s been interviewing the night watchman. Interesting, isn’t it? Just
thought I’d tell you, so you can keep an eye on things.”

He hung up the receiver, and I was left to make of that what I could.

I remember that Alex Davis was there that night, Howard’s attorney. He
was settled comfortably in the library with a glass of old port at his
elbow, and what with the port and probably an excellent dinner tucked
away, he was unusually talkative. A fat man, Alex Davis, with small
sharp black eyes set in a broad expanse of face.

“I suppose you know,” he said, “that there will be a great deal of
money. More, I fancy, than any one realizes. Poor Howard was a secretive
man.”

“I suppose he left a will?”

“Yes. A very fair one, I think. He’s taken care of the servants and
certain charities, and there is provision too for Mrs. Somers’ brother.”

“And Wallie?” I asked.

He cleared his throat.

“He has already done a good bit for Wallie. Certain businesses which
failed, and last summer certain notes to be paid. But there is a very
fair arrangement; a trust fund with a substantial income. Not large.
Substantial. Of course this is in confidence. I am one of the
executors.”

And I saw that this last pleased him; that it was a vote of confidence,
as well as providing certain emoluments; that already he saw his name in
the press everywhere; the size of the estate, the inheritance tax
royalty calculated. “Mr. Alexander Davis and the Guaranty Trust Company,
executors.”

He leaned back and patted his substantial abdomen.

“Howard was a money maker,” he said. “A lot of people are going to be
surprised.”

I was not listening very attentively. I was thinking of Mary and of that
conversation with the night watchman, and after Alex Davis had taken his
complacent departure I wandered into Katherine’s study and looked about
me.

The desk was cleared. There was no sign of those small personal
belongings which she was wont to keep by her. Nor were they in the
drawers of the desk, or any place else.

It came to me with a shock of surprise that Mary Martin had gone, and
gone for good.

Jim arrived at noon the next day, for the funeral. Save for a certain
pallor—he had been in the house for over three weeks—he seemed much as
usual; impeccably dressed, with a black tie and a black band on the left
sleeve of his coat.

I had no chance whatever to talk to him. He went at once to Katherine’s
room, and their luncheon was served to them there.

Only during the solemn process of carrying Howard’s body downstairs was
he seen at all until after the services. But that seems to have been
sufficient. Some time in that slow and affecting progress Jim came face
to face with an individual whom I was later to know as Charles Parrott,
a man of middle age, with a cap drawn low over his face. This Parrott
was carrying in the chairs usually provided for such occasions, and was
opening them and placing them in rows, and as Jim passed him he gave him
a long steady look. Jim did not notice him, apparently.

I was not there at the time. The name Charles Parrott meant nothing to
me. But in due time Charles Parrott was to play his own part in our
tragedy, to make his own contribution to the tragic _dénouement_ which
was to follow. For Charles Parrott, introduced by Dick by methods of
which I have no knowledge, was the night watchman of the building. And
he identified Jim Blake as being of the same build and general
appearance as that visitor to Howard whom he had admitted two nights
before.

True, he stubbornly refused under oath to make a positive statement.

“He’s the same build. He looks like him. But that’s as far as I go.”

So Jim moved about, unsuspicious, changing the flowers, softening the
lights, and Parrott watched him. He disappeared when Jim had gone
upstairs again, to remain with Katherine and Judy during the services.
Wallie was not asked to join them. He was left to sit alone, where he
chose. A cruel thing, perhaps; a stupid thing certainly. Katherine had
taken the strongest affection he had ever felt, the deepest grief, and
flung them back in his face.

So he sat alone, rigid and cold during the services, and stood alone at
his father’s grave. However he had wavered before, some time then he
made his decision. He went that night to call on Alex Davis, sitting
complacent and smug in his library, and slammed out only a half hour
later, leaving Alex in a state bordering on apoplexy.

Half an hour later Alex Davis was frenziedly ringing the bell of the
apartment and demanding to see Katherine. He was admitted and taken up
to her, but Judy and I knew nothing of all this until later.

Judy had determined to talk to Jim, and asked me to be present in the
library.

“I can’t stand it any longer,” she said. “He was here. Why doesn’t he
speak up? He must know that watchman saw him. Even if father was—was
alive when he left, why doesn’t he say something?”

But Jim’s reaction to her first question was a surprise to both of us.
He denied, immediately, categorically, and almost violently, that he had
made any visit to Howard Somers on the night of his death.

“Here?” he said. “Why, it’s madness. Why should I have come like that?
You’ve lost your good common sense, Judy.”

“Some one was here and used your name. He telephoned on the way, from
somewhere in the country.”

When she had told her story, however, he looked ghastly. Not only was
there the implication that Howard had been murdered, but there was the
terrible possibility which the situation held for himself. What was he
to do, where to turn? To go to Katherine and demand that the body be
exhumed? And that with the police watching him, and maybe poison to be
found? All that he must have thought of, sitting there so neat and
dapper in his chair.

“It’s terrible,” he said. “It’s all terrible. And this night watchman?
He says he recognized me?”

“He says the man was your height and build.”

Suddenly he was savagely angry. “And so this fellow, this Parrott—he’s
in the secret, is he? He’s been brought here to look me over! Good God,
Judy, do you want to send me to the chair? I wasn’t here. How the hell
could I get here? I’ve been sick for weeks. If somebody came here that
night, using my name and impersonating me, he was a liar and an
impostor, and before God I believe he was a murderer too. Why should I
have come here in the night? I could come at any time.”

Then he quieted, although he was still shaking.

“Does your mother know anything of all this?”

“Nothing.”

“Then keep it from her. You can do that much. She is in great trouble.”

“So am I in great trouble,” said Judy bitterly. “But I suppose that
doesn’t matter.”

He looked at her.

“You believed it, did you? Do you still believe it?”

“I don’t know. No, of course not.”

“Judy,” he said, more gently, “what motive could I have? What possible
reason? Your father was my friend. To put the thing boldly, what could I
possibly gain by his death? By any of these deaths?”

And as if in answer to his question a footman knocked at the door and
said that Katherine wanted to see him in her room.

I have no picture of that scene, but I can see it: Katherine frozen in
her chair and Alex Davis walking the floor, and after a habit of his
snapping his fingers as he walked. Into that scene Jim was projected,
and in forcible language he was told what Wallie had said.

Briefly, Wallie had claimed that, during his illness the summer before,
his father had made a second will. That this will was in Howard’s safe
deposit box at the bank in New York, and the copy in the hands of Waite
and Henderson, Mr. Waite having personally drawn it, here in my own
city.

By this will, Wallie received no trust fund and no annuity, but a full
half of the estate, and the previous will had been revoked. The new will
made no provision whatever, either for Sarah or for Jim.

“He may be lying,” said Jim, still apparently confused.

But Alex Davis snapped his fingers with excitement, and said that if so
it was fairly circumstantial lying.

“He’s even got the names of the witnesses,” he said, and drawing a slip
of paper from his pocket he read them aloud. “Sarah Gittings and
Florence Gunther.”

I believe it was then that Jim collapsed.

Naturally I knew nothing of this at the time, nor did Judy. Both
Katherine and Jim were still shut in their rooms when I left early the
next morning.

But I was sufficiently dismayed and confused. If we were to believe
Jim—and I did—then the possibility of a third murder was very real.
And once more, sitting in the train, I endeavored to fit together the
fragments of that puzzle. I saw Howard, that night, waiting in his room,
settled in his bed, the highball beside him, a book in his hand. Getting
up to admit his visitor, finding it was not Jim, but making no outcry.
Still calm, putting on his dressing gown and slippers, talking. Judy had
heard them talking.

Some one he knew, then; knew and trusted. Was it Wallie? Wallie was not
unlike Jim in build, although taller and slimmer. Might not that be the
answer, and no poison, no third murder. A talk between father and son,
and then Wallie going and the heart attack after he had gone.

I admit that this comforted me. I sat back and tried to read.

Shortly before the train drew in to the station Dick Carter came through
the car. He looked depressed, but he forced a smile when he saw me.

“Well,” he said, “I’m back on the job! Even funerals can’t last
forever.”

He sat down in the empty chair next to mine, and said that Judy had
telephoned him of Jim’s denial.

“She believes him,” he said. “In that case—this Martin girl seems to be
fairly vital. It begins to look as though she’s the key, doesn’t it?
Take that glass, for instance. She thought fast that morning and she was
still thinking that night. It’s not coincidence, all that glass stuff.
Get why she did that, and we’ve got somewhere. Where does she come in in
all this, anyhow?”

“I wish I knew.”

“Tell me something about her,” he said, leaning forward. “Who is she?
What do you know about her?”

“Nothing, really. She answered an advertisement last fall. I tried her
out, and she was efficient. Very. She had no local references.”

“And on that you took her into the house? To live?”

“Not at first. But she was really very capable, and sometimes I work at
night. I rather drifted into it.”

He was silent for some time. Then he made a circle on a piece of paper
and marked it around with perhaps a dozen dots. It bore a rough relation
to a clock-face, but without the hands, when he held it out to me.

“This dial thing,” he said. “It may not refer to a clock, you know. It
might be a safe. You haven’t a safe in the house, have you?”

“No.”

“A safe, or something resembling a clock, but not necessarily a clock.
Something round. Would that mean anything to you? A picture, maybe? Have
you any round pictures, with nails at the back?”

“One or two. I can examine them.”

The train was drawing in. He helped me into my wraps, and we sat down
again while we were being slowly moved into the station.

“I suppose,” he said, not looking directly at me, “that you realize what
all this has done to me?”

“To you!”

“About Judy. I’ll be nobody’s kept husband, and Judy’s got a couple of
millions or so. I fade, that’s all.”

“Judy has a right to a vote on that, hasn’t she?”

“She’s voted. She’ll keep the money.”

“I don’t believe it.”

“Well, the equivalent of that. She says I’m a poor mean-spirited
creature to refuse to let her support me in luxury. She says it takes a
strong man to marry money, and I’m weak or I’d do it.”

Then the train stopped.

I was glad to get home, to find Robert at the station and Joseph at the
open door. I like my servants; I have to live with them, and so when I
do not like them they must go. And the house was cool and quiet, after
New York. I relaxed at once under Joseph’s care; the well-laid tea
table, the small hot rolls, the very smoothness and greenness of the
lawns outside the windows. For the first time since Sarah’s death I felt
secure. Surely now it was over; we had had our three tragedies,
according to the old superstition.

I leaned back and looked at Joseph, and for the first time I realized
that he was pale, almost waxy.

“Have you been ill, Joseph?”

“No, madam. I have had an accident.”

“An accident? What sort of an accident?”

But as it turned out, Joseph had had no accident. Dragged out of him,
and later corroborated by the maids, came the story of an attack in
broad daylight so mysterious and so brutal that it made my blood run
cold.

The story was this: on the afternoon of the day I left for New York, he
had allowed the women servants to go out. He often did this in my
absence, getting himself a supper of sorts, and apparently glad to have
his pantry to himself.

The house was locked and Robert was washing the car in the garage.
According to Robert, and this was later found to be true, the first
knowledge he had of any trouble was at four o’clock that afternoon, when
he heard a faint rapping on the pantry window and looking toward the
house, saw a bloody head, wavering with weakness, inside.

Robert was frightened. He made no effort to get into the house alone,
but summoned a white chauffeur from the garage of my bootlegger
neighbor, and the two of them broke open the basement door and rushed up
the stairs.

They found Joseph unconscious on the pantry floor, his head bleeding
profusely from a bad cut, and as Doctor Simonds later discovered, his
body a mass of bruises. It was two hours before he recovered
consciousness, and then he could give no description of his assailant.

“I saw and heard nobody,” he told me. “I was on the second floor. It
looked like rain and I was closing the windows. I had finished that and
was about to go down the back staircase when I felt that some one was
behind me. But I never saw who it was. The next thing I remember, madam,
I was at the foot of the stairs, trying to crawl to the pantry.”

And this story of his was borne out by the fact that the maids later
found blood on the stairs and a small pool at the bottom.

Doctor Simonds however did not place too much confidence in the story of
the attack, when he came in that night to see me.

“Sure he was hurt,” he said, with that cheerful descent into the
colloquial with which the medical profession soothes its fearful
patients and its nervous women. “Surest thing I ever saw. It took four
stitches to sew him up! But why assault? Why didn’t Joseph catch his
rubber heel on something and pitch down those stairs of yours? There are
twenty odd metal-edged steps there, and every one got in a bit of work.”

“He says he felt that there was some one behind him.”

“Exactly. He was stepping off as he turned to look; and why he didn’t
break that stiff neck of his I don’t know. It’s a marvel to me that he’s
up and about.”

But Joseph stuck to his story. He had been attacked by some one from the
rear, armed either with a club or a chair. And as we know now, he was
right. Joseph had indeed been murderously assaulted, and very possibly
left for dead.

As it happened, it was during that call of Doctor Simonds’ that I first
learned of the possibility that Howard had left a second will. He had
attended Howard during his illness at the Imperial the summer before,
and expressed regret over his death.

“Of course it was bound to come,” he said. “He knew it. He was not a man
you could deceive, and that attack he had here was a pretty bad one. By
the way, did he alter his will at that time? Or do you know?”

“Alter it? I don’t know, I’m sure.”

“He was thinking of it. Walter had been very attentive to him, and
they’d patched up a peace between them. It was rather amusing, in a way.
Poor Miss Gittings hated Walter, and she would have kept him out if she
could.”

“I hope he did change the will,” I said, thoughtfully. “After all, his
only son——”

“He may, and he may not. I talked it over with Walter, and he said there
would be hell to pay if it did happen. He wasn’t sure, of course. But he
got me to give him a letter, to the effect that his father was capable
of drawing such a document; ‘not under drugs, or mentally enfeebled.’”
He laughed a little. “‘Mentally enfeebled.’” he said. “If Howard Somers
was mentally enfeebled I wish I had arterio-sclerosis!”

But Joseph’s injury had made me most uneasy. What was the motive? What
had been gained by it? I must confess that once again I considered the
possibility of a killer who killed for the sheer lust of murder.

That day I bought a new revolver for Joseph, and moved him to a guest
room on the second floor. Before he retired I made the round of the
house with him, and even of the garage and the cellars. Then, with my
own door locked, I was able to pass a quiet if not an easy night.

But again I did not sleep. I lay in bed with a pencil and a sheet of
paper, and tried that night to put together what we knew about this
unknown. I wrote down that he was crafty and physically strong; that he
had no scruples about taking human life; that he knew my house even to
the detail of the airshaft and its window; that he was—at least
probably—of the same height and build as Jim Blake; that my dogs knew
him; that, although since Sarah’s death the front door lock had been
changed, he was still able—if Joseph’s story were accurate—to enter my
house at will; and that his motive, still hidden, had somehow already
involved and destroyed Sarah and Florence Gunther and possibly Howard,
and might in the end affect others, God only knew who.

I was badly frightened by that time, and when just as I had finished the
list I heard the stealthy padding of feet in the hall, I was in a cold
sweat of terror. It was only Jock, however, moving restlessly about,
with the call of the spring night in his blood and a closed and
double-locked front door between him and his kind.




                            CHAPTER FIFTEEN


The next day I went through my house, acting on Dick’s suggestion. I
imagine that the servants thought that our recent tragedies had slightly
unbalanced me, as I took down one circular object after another and
examined it. One or two old daguerreotypes in round frames I literally
ripped open, but at the end of these acts of vandalism I was no wiser
than before.

It was that afternoon that I was sent for by the District Attorney; a
disquieting interview, with accusation and suppressed anger on his part,
and sheer dismay on my own.

“This is a curious case, Miss Bell,” he said. “Two horrible crimes have
been committed by the same hand, and two attacks, one of them certain;
the other, on your butler, at least possible. We have either a maniac
loose in the community, or we have a motive so carefully concealed that
so far we have not found it. I think there is a motive. Of the two women
killed, one was apparently negligible, without background. The other had
no background save a certain family, to which she had been loyal and
from which she had certainly received a considerable measure of
confidence. These two women became friends; the secret of one became the
secret of the other. Therefore, granting there was some detrimental
knowledge, when one died the other must die. That’s simple. But the
family in question has done nothing to help the law. It has even
withheld certain matters from the police.”

“I deny that, absolutely.”

“Do you? Is that entirely wise, Miss Bell? If this case comes to trial,
and you are put under oath on the witness stand——”

“How can it come to trial? You have made no arrest.”

But he ignored that.

“I want to urge you to tell what you know, Miss Bell, as a public duty.
You owe that to the community. If there is a man of this description
loose, a wholesale murderer, shrewd, without conscience or scruple,
defeating justice to serve his own ends, then your obligation lies plain
before you.”

“I know nothing. If you think you are describing Jim Blake, I do not. He
is as innocent as you are.”

He bent forward.

“Then why did you burn the carpet from his car? You need not answer
that. We know that you did. We are not guessing.”

“If you are going to try to convict a man on purely circumstantial
evidence——”

“What _is_ circumstantial evidence? It is the evidence on which we rely
every day of our lives. Your door bell rings; you have not seen anybody
at the door, but you know that somebody is there, ringing that bell.
That’s circumstantial evidence.”

He leaned back and spoke more quietly.

“This cane,” he said, “the one with the hidden blade. How wide was that
blade?”

“It was very narrow; perhaps a half inch at the widest part It tapered.”

“And it had a double cutting edge?”

“I don’t remember.”

“You haven’t seen it since you gave it to Jim Blake?”

“Not since.”

“And when did you give it to him?”

“I’ve already told you that; last March. He had admired it.”

“Did he ask for it?”

“Hardly that. He said if I ever wanted to get rid of it, he would take
it.”

“He dropped in to see you rather often?”

“Not so often. Once a month or so.”

“And where did you sit, when he called?”

“In my library, usually.”

On my way out I saw Mr. Henderson, of Waite and Henderson, and bowed to
him. It seemed to me that he looked worried and upset, but I laid this
to the death of Florence and its continuing mystery, and thought no more
of it.

That was on Saturday, May the fourteenth, and that night Inspector
Harrison came in. He looked tired and rather untidy, and when he took
off his overcoat a flashlight fell to the floor.

For some reason he brought it into the library with him, and sat
snapping it on and off as he talked. Perhaps he was out of his customary
ammunition. He began rather apologetically.

“I’ve got the habit of dropping in here,” he said. “I suppose it’s
because I like to talk and you’re willing to listen.”

“I daresay,” I observed, “although I had hoped it was due to my personal
charm.”

That embarrassed him. He smiled rather dubiously, gave me a quick
glance, and then proceeded quite calmly to focus the flashlight on my
feet.

“You see,” he said. “I’ve been studying those molds I took. It’s my
belief that they were made with a woman’s shoe. Not _that_ sort; a big
woman’s shoe. Flat heeled and sensible, and considerably worn. A woman
who walked on the outsides of her feet; maybe bandy legged.”

“I assure you, Inspector——”

“No need of it,” he said politely. “But before I go I’d like to look
over the closets here. Somebody appears to have pretty free access to
this house, and it’s just possible we’ll locate that pair of shoes.”

He made no immediate move, however. He surveyed himself rather ruefully.

“I’ve been tramping about,” he explained. “It’s a curious thing, but
things can be seen at night that can’t be seen in daytime. Take blood on
furniture. In the daylight it looks like varnish, but in a good electric
light it often shows up. Then take marks in the ground. Look at what
your car headlights do! I’ve slowed down for a rut no deeper than my
finger.”

“And now you have found something?”

“Well, I have,” he said. “It’s bad news for you, Miss Bell. It’s like
this; I went to the museum and looked at one of those sword sticks they
have there. They look like other sticks, but there’s one difference. The
ferrule is open at the bottom. When you put it down on the ground it
makes a circle, not a hole. I took it out and tried it. You get the
idea, don’t you? A ring is what it makes. In the one in the museum the
blade is loose, so it makes a ring with a dot in the center. That’s the
tip of the knife. In yours the blade is hung better. There’s only the
ring.”

I could hardly speak.

“And you’ve found such rings?”

“A dozen of them. Maybe two dozen. I’ve got them marked and covered, and
tomorrow we’ll lift them. I thought I’d better tell you.”

“Then Jim——”

“He was there, all right. There are a half dozen of the things in the
bridle path between the sewer and the foot of the hill; and there are
others on the side of the hill. What’s more, I think I have found what
stunned Sarah Gittings before she died.”

It appears, then, that the examination of poor Sarah’s body had shown
more than we had known. The wound at the back of her head had been made
with a blunt instrument, as we had been told; but the nature of that
instrument was unknown. However, inspection had shown in her hair and in
the wound itself numerous small fragments of bark from a tree.

“Of course the body had been dragged, and that would account for some of
it. But there was bark deeply buried in the tissues. And there was
another thing: the blow had been struck from above. The lower side of
the wound was torn. Either she had been struck by a very tall man, or
she was sitting down. I had to argue like this; we’ll leave out the tall
man for the minute, and say she was sitting down. Now where does a woman
like that sit, if she’s out in the open? She’s a neat woman, very
orderly, and she isn’t young. She doesn’t sit on the ground. She finds a
tree stump, or a fallen tree or a stone, and she sits on that.”

But he had been some time in coming to that, and Florence’s death had
interfered. There had been rain, too, and sunlight. Sunlight, it
appeared, faded blood. That night, however, he had started out, and he
had found what he was looking for. Near a fallen tree at the top of the
hill, and perhaps forty feet from where the dogs had been tied, he had
turned his flashlight on the broken branch of a tree, about four feet
long, and both heavy and solid. When he turned it over, on the side
protected from rain and weather, he had found stains and one or two
hairs.

He had wrapped it up carefully and sent it back to headquarters.

I felt sick.

“And you found the marks of the sword-stick there, too?”

“Well, no. But that’s not surprising. A man doesn’t walk up to commit a
murder swinging a stick. He crept up behind her. I doubt if she knew
anything until it was all over.”

I was thinking desperately.

“This sword-stick in the museum, would the blade of such a stick have
made the other wounds?”

“They would,” he said promptly. “But we have to be careful there, Miss
Bell. All stab wounds look alike. You can’t tell whether a blade has had
two cutting edges or one. You see, every knife has two cutting edges at
the point. Take this knife here.” He drew a substantial one from his
pocket. “It cuts both ways for half an inch. No. Taken by itself, the
fact that Jim Blake carried that stick that night doesn’t prove that he
used it, or that it’s the weapon that was used. It’s the rest of the
case——”

He had said what he came to say. There had been no new developments in
the death of Florence Gunther. The bullet had been fired at close range,
and from the left. The point of entry was a neat hole, but on the other
side there had been some destruction. He was inclined to believe with
Dick that she had been shot while in a car, and in front of or near my
property.

“Even a head wound bleeds some,” he explained, “and that sort of wound
is generally pretty—well, pretty messy. Of course that may be wrong.
She may have been stunned first like Sarah Gittings; and killed in the
country somewhere.”

He got up to go, and as he stood there with the light shining down on
his bald head, I saw that like the rest of us he looked tired and
depressed.

“There are times,” he said, “when I don’t like this job of mine. And
this is one of them. Take you. Take little Miss Judy. She’s got troubles
enough just now, and the chances are that in a day or two we’re going to
add to them.”

“You’re going to arrest Jim Blake?”

“I’m going to do just that, Miss Bell. I don’t mind telling you that we
think we’ve got the motive. Maybe you know about it, maybe you don’t.
But we’ve got the motive now, and we know he was on that hillside that
night. Only I’d like to find that sword-stick first.”

He was on his way to the door when I stopped him.

“How did you know I had burned that carpet, Inspector?”

“Well, somebody had burned it, and it looked as though you might be the
guilty party.”

“Bat how did you know?”

He gave me a whimsical glance.

“Did you ever examine one of those things, Miss Bell? Well, I’ll tell
you something maybe you don’t know. That carpet had snaps—or
buttons—on it to fasten it to the floor; and those snaps are metal.
They won’t burn. A smart man now, going carefully through certain
ashcans, can find them without any trouble.”

He turned, his hand on the door knob.

“But I’ll say this to you, Miss Bell, in confidence. I’d like to know
why you burned that carpet. I’d been over that car myself with a
magnifying glass the day after Florence Gunther was killed. If you found
anything in it, you’re smarter than I am.”

I could only stare at him in silent stupefaction.

“Never mind, then,” he said. “You think it over. There’s no hurry.” And
with that he left.

It was only after he had gone that I remembered the shoes he had meant
to examine.

I had two days in which to think that over, although thinking did me no
good whatever. I had burned the carpet and thus put a weapon against Jim
in the hands of the District Attorney, and no statement by the Inspector
that he had found nothing suspicious on or about it would alter that.

They would believe, as he believed, that I had found something
incriminating there which they had overlooked.

But mingled with this was a sense of relief. If they had not found the
oil stains on the day after Florence’s murder it was because they were
not there.

Those two days, however, were all I could bear. I saw nobody, heard
nothing. It was as though there had been no murder of our poor Sarah, or
of Florence; as though there had been no mysterious unknown, able to
enter my house at will on some equally mysterious errand. But by the
third day, Tuesday, I began to relax. Nobody had been arrested. Life was
once more a quiet round of breakfast tray, lunch and dinner. I even
prepared to go over my notes on my father’s biography, as a matter of
_morale_; that poor endeavor we all make in trouble to provide some sort
of protective mechanism for the mind.

So I got out the material. Mary’s neatly typed pages, my own illegible
jottings, and those ruled notebooks in which Mary had taken down my
dictation. Their queer symbols meant nothing to me; they were as
unfathomable as the girl herself. And it occurred to me, sitting there,
that these books written in her hand, were all that remained to any of
us of Mary Martin. She had come, played her strange part, and departed.
A queer girl, with her poses, her defiant beauty, and her faculty of
being around where there was trouble; or of carrying it with her. Who
could say which?

I turned over the pages, but although here and there I found notes in
longhand—“Send to Laura for daguerreotypes” I recall was one of them,
and another “Have Joseph find out about terrapin for dinner
party”—there was nothing of any value until I reached what appeared to
be the latest book.

Not on the pages, but inside the cover in ink, she had written: “New
number, East 16.”

Now I happen to have a peculiar faculty, one born of necessity, for I
frequently forget my glasses. I have a flair for remembering telephone
numbers. And this number ran familiarly in my mind.

It did not come at once. I sat back and closed my eyes, and at last it
came. I saw Dick Carter sitting at my desk, with Judy beside him, and he
was calling East 16. Then I knew. Dick had called East 16 the night he
was arranging for Judy and myself to visit Lily Sanderson.

New number, East 16. That meant that there had been another number, an
old one, and that Mary had known it. But it seemed to me that it meant
much more; that Mary had known some one in that house, possibly Florence
Gunther herself. What that would explain I did not trouble to
contemplate. It seemed to me that I must see Lily Sanderson again, see
if she had met Mary about the house or with Florence, and that then we
must find Mary herself. Find her and make her talk.

When I called East 16, however, Miss Sanderson was at work. And then
that afternoon, as though she had caught my mental message, Lily
Sanderson herself came to see me.

It was fortunate that Joseph was taking his afternoon out, or he might
not have admitted her. He had his own methods of discriminating between
people making social calls and people who came for purposes of their
own. Indeed, I have seen him; the swift glance at car or taxicab, the
rapid appraisal, gloves, shoes, garments. And then the quick decision.

“Madam is not at home.”

Or a widening of the door, a bow; taking the cards, rather in the grand
manner, and through it all a suggestion—merely a suggestion—of
welcome.

But as it is Clara’s rule to admit all comers Lily Sanderson gained
access without trouble, and I found her in the drawing room, rather
stiff and formal.

“I hope you don’t mind my coming,” she said. “I just had a feeling I had
to see you.”

“I am glad you came. Would you like a cup of tea?”

“If it isn’t too much trouble. I came from the store, and I’ve had a
hard day. I didn’t take time to go home and change.”

She watched with interest while I rang for Clara and ordered tea, and
the long drawing room seemed to fascinate her.

“Such a lovely place,” she said. “I was looking at your bushes, as I
came in. And this room! That’s a lovely cabinet over there.”

“It is lovely,” I agreed. “It is very old.”

And as I sat there looking at this big blue-eyed woman with her faint
limp, her almost childlike assumption of sophistication, her queer
clothes, I felt that I liked her. Liked her and trusted her.

She did not come immediately to the reason for her visit, and I did not
urge her. It was after the tea had come and Clara had gone that she
finally brought up the subject.

“I don’t know whether it’s valuable or not,” she said. “But as a friend
of Florence’s you ought to know. She was seen getting into a car, the
night she was killed. Two people saw her.”

“What kind of a car?”

“A large one; a limousine.”

“Did they notice the color?”

“They don’t agree about that. They’re the Italians who keep the fruit
stand at the corner. I don’t know their names. We call him Tony. They
knew Florence well; she often bought apples there. Tony says it was
black, but Mrs. Tony says it was blue.”

The story was as follows: on the night of Florence Gunther’s murder both
the Italians at the fruit stand saw her coming along the street. She
shook her head, to say she wanted nothing, and then waited for a street
car. Both of them saw her distinctly. She seemed restless, walking a few
steps each way, then back again.

Before a car arrived, however, an automobile drew up before her; a
closed car with a man at the wheel. Owing to the fact that the street
light was directly overhead, neither of the Italians saw him clearly,
except that he wore a soft hat.

There was some conversation. The man and woman at the fruit stand were
interested. They had known her for a long time, and she was always
alone. She seemed to demur at something, the man appeared to insist.
Finally he opened the door and she got in beside him.

But—and here was the curious part—the woman at the fruit stand
maintained that this same car had been standing halfway down the block
in the shadow for some time. That she had seen it there, and that the
man driving it had been working at something about it; front and rear.

“She thought he was rubbing dirt over the license plates,” Miss
Sanderson said. “And they had been held up a month or so before, so she
watched him. She says now that he got into the car the moment he saw
Florence. Then he drove up rather fast, and threw on the brakes in front
of her, as though he had just seen her. But Mrs. Tony was interested in
the license plates, and she went out and looked at the rear one. He had
blacked it. She couldn’t read it, at all.”

But that visit of Lily Sanderson’s was disappointing in one way at
least. I asked her point blank if she knew a young woman named Mary
Martin, and it produced no effect whatever.

“Mary Martin?” she said thoughtfully. “No, I can’t say that I do.”

“I think she knew Florence Gunther. If not, she certainly knew some one
at the house.”

“I can ask, if you like,” she said. “I’ve only been there since last
fall, and most of the rest are new too. You know how it is, everything’s
fine at first. Then you’re caught doing a bit of washing or having a
gentleman friend more than one night a week, and there’s trouble. And
that reminds me. I’ve got something to tell you about the man who called
on Florence Gunther. Clarissa saw him.”

“Clarissa?”

“The colored woman at the house. And a surly creature she is, at that. I
gave her a dress the other day, and she talked. He was a thin man,
rather tall; she thinks about fifty. Well-dressed, she says. He had a
cane with him, and he wore a sport suit. Out our way that means
something!”




                            CHAPTER SIXTEEN


It was that evening, Tuesday the seventeenth, at dinner, that I received
one of Katherine’s characteristic terse telegrams.

“Arriving tonight eleven o’clock train.”

The telegram was not only unexpected but ominous. That Katherine, sunk
in grief as she was, should leave her house and come to me at that time
seemed almost incredible. I could think of only two things; either that
Jim had told her of the danger in which he stood, or that something had
aroused her suspicions as to Howard’s death.

In any event her coming was certainly significant, and I am not ashamed
to say that I took a small glass of sherry before I left for the
station. Nor did the sight of Katherine in her widow’s weeds, with that
white cold face of hers set like a mask, improve matters. She offered me
her cheek, and as I offered mine at the same moment, what resulted was
rather like the nose rubbing of the Africans, or whoever it is.

Not then, nor later when I showed her her room and the Frenchwoman,
Elise, began to lay out her toilet things, did she offer any explanation
of her visit. Judy, she said, was all right and would come with Jim the
next morning. She herself had come on business. And then very politely
she put me out and left me to lie awake most of the night, wondering.

It was not until ten the next morning that I got my explanation, and
then it was clear enough, and worrying enough, in all conscience. At ten
o’clock the door bell rang, and it was Jim, accompanied by Judy and, to
my intense surprise, Alex Davis.

Judy looked odd and uncomfortable, but she was irrepressible, as always.

“It’s not a convention,” she said. “It’s merely a delegation.”

She went upstairs to Katherine and the two men waited in the library,
Jim moving about restlessly, Alex Davis glancing over some notes in his
hand. In five minutes or so the bell rang again, and Joseph announced
Mr. Waite.

I was practically beyond speech by that time. I listened dumbly while
Mr. Waite made his apologies; he had just got off the train; he had been
taking the sun cure in Arizona for his arthritis and was much better,
thanks. Then his eyes fell on the black band on Jim’s sleeve, and he
said something polite about Howard’s death.

But it all seemed unreal to me, and when Joseph ushered in Doctor
Simonds I was not surprised to see Alex Davis rise and clear his throat,
as though he were about to address a meeting.

“I believe that completes us,” he said, as though he had announced that
there was a quorum present. “And now, if Joseph will notify Mrs.
Somers——”

Bewildered as I was, I had to admire Katherine as she came in, in her
long black gown and with her fine head high in the air. There was a
superb dignity about her, a refusal to make any concessions to the
expected, so unlike my own fluttering as to make me self-conscious.

She shook hands with no one, smiled at no one. She simply sat down and
looked at Alex Davis.

“Very well,” she said. “I believe we are all ready.”

And then Alex Davis did indeed make a speech. He referred to his late
dear friend, Howard Somers, and to the grieving woman who sat there,
finding herself in a position which it was difficult for her to accept.

“In all their conversations together, this husband and this wife, she
was led to believe that the bulk of his fortune would come to her. Now
she is confronted with a new will, a will she cannot explain and does
not accept.” I saw Mr. Waite frown slightly. “A will in which a wastrel
son receives one half of this large estate. It is to discuss, not the
validity of this will——” he glanced at Mr. Waite—“but the
circumstances under which it was drawn, that she has asked you to meet
her here today.”

He sat down, and Mr. Waite took off his glasses and polished them with
his handkerchief.

“Am I to speak?” he inquired. “I presume, since the integrity of the
document is not in question, that it is really up to the doctor.”

Urbane as he was, I saw that he was irritated. Under Alex’s fine words
he must have seen, as I did, that it was the will itself which was under
fire.

“I actually know nothing,” the doctor said. “Walter Somers told me,
during his father’s illness here last summer, that he was thinking of
changing his will. He asked my opinion of his father’s mental condition,
and I said I wished mine were as good. Later on he asked me to give him
a note to that effect, and I did so.”

He sat back, smoothing a small Van Dyke beard with a hand deeply stained
from cigarettes. Katherine eyed him and spoke for the first time.

“You had given him no drugs, doctor?”

“Drugs?” he said rather testily. “I gave him drugs, of course. That’s my
profession. But I gave him nothing that could by any stretch of the
imagination affect his mind.”

Mr. Waite’s story was given circumstantially and directly.

On the twelfth of the previous August he had received a telephone call
from Walter Somers, asking him to see his father that afternoon at the
Imperial Hotel and to draw up a will for him. As he knew that Mr. Somers
had been very ill and was still a sick man, he took the precaution of
calling up the doctor here, who was attending him, and inquiring as to
his mental condition. Doctor Simonds said that he knew Mr. Somers was
contemplating a new will, and that he was entirely competent to make
one. The result was that he had drawn up the draft late that afternoon,
and took back the finished document at something after four o’clock the
next day. It was signed in duplicate.

Katherine listened with slowly rising color.

“Do you mean to say that you would draw up a will as vital as that,
as—revolutionary, without question? What about undue influence being
brought to bear? A man may appear to be normal, but after a severe
illness, when he is weak and broken——”

“There was certainly no influence evident at the time. The manager of
the hotel took me up, and Walter Somers met me at the door and took me
in. Then he went out and I did not see him again, either that day or the
next.”

“Was Sarah Gittings present?”

“She left the room. She was there when I first went in, and she came in
on the second day to witness the signatures. And I may add this. There
was some discussion of the terms of the will. Mr. Somers himself knew
that it was what you have called revolutionary, but he said that Walter
had reached years of discretion, and that he felt that there was plenty
for all.”

“That is not the question,” said Katherine sharply. “The money’s
nothing. What does money matter? What does matter is that at the end he
should have repudiated me. What brought that about, Mr. Waite? What
happened here last summer to change his entire attitude toward me? Why
did he put that will in his box, endorsed in his own hand ‘to be given
to my son Walter in the event of my death?’ That is very serious, Mr.
Waite. Had he ceased to trust me? And that fund of fifty thousand
dollars to be administered by Walter at his discretion! What did he say
about that? What secret was he covering?”

“He said that Walter understood.”

“And that is all he said?”

“That is all.”

She leaned back in her chair, apparently exhausted, and there was a
short silence broken at last by Alex Davis.

“Have you the duplicate of the will with you, Mr. Waite?”

And then some of Mr. Waite’s air of offended dignity left him. He
stirred in his chair.

“I was coming to that. As a matter of fact, a very strange thing has
happened to that copy, Mr. Davis. It has disappeared from our files. Mr.
Henderson has been searching for several days, ever since Mr. Somers’
death, in fact. He has a theory as to its disappearance, but as it is
not a pleasant one——”

I happened to glance at Jim and his mouth was twitching crazily.

“I think we must hear it, nevertheless.”

“It’s like this. On the day of Sarah Gittings’ murder—that afternoon in
fact—a clerk in our office opened the safe at Florence Gunther’s
request, and left her there to secure certain documents. Later on she
returned these papers, and he closed and locked the safe. She was a
trusted employé, and everything apparently was all right.

“When Mr. Somers died, however, in my absence Mr. Henderson, who knew
about the will, went to the safe for the duplicate and found that it was
gone.

“No suspicion attached itself to Florence Gunther, who had herself gone
with me on both days to the hotel and who had later witnessed the will.
But during the intervening time she had been murdered, and naturally
everything pertaining to her had become a matter of great interest.

“Four days ago Mr. Henderson telegraphed me that the will was missing,
and to come back. When he met me at the train this morning he told me
that one of our clerks, a man named Lowrie, had remembered that on the
afternoon of the day Sarah Gittings was killed he had seen Florence
Gunther on the street; that he saw her meet a heavy-set woman whom he
believes now, from the published photographs, to have been Sarah
Gittings, and there on the street pass to her a long envelope of the
legal type.

“If that is true, it is at least possible that the duplicate of the will
was in that envelope.”

Jim spoke for the first time, trying to control his mouth.

“Why would she have done that?”

Mr. Waite considered.

“She was a reliable woman,” he said. “If she did that at all, and I am
only telling you the office talk, she meant to show that will to Miss
Gittings and then to put it back in the safe. But things happened
and——Mr. Henderson has been to the police, and it was not found among
her effects. The effects of either of the two women.”

“But why have shown it to Sarah?” Jim insisted. “She knew about it.
She’d witnessed it.”

“She had no idea of the contents.”

“Florence Gunther knew the terms, I suppose?”

“Naturally. She had typed it. I have had very little time to think, but
it strikes me that these two women met, and that the will came up for
discussion. One of our strictest rules is that such matters are kept
absolutely secret so far as our office force is concerned, and Florence
Gunther was no talker. Besides, in this case there had been particular
instructions that the existence of this document remain confidential, so
I cannot understand——”

“Who gave you those instructions?” Katherine interrupted.

“Mr. Somers himself.”

“Now about this fund, this fifty thousand dollars,” Alex Davis said. “He
merely said that Walter Somers would understand?”

“That is all. Naturally I wondered, but it was not my affair. He was not
a man to explain why he was doing certain things. I rather thought that
the family understood.”

Katherine looked at him.

“Understood? With the entire proceeding to be secret and confidential!”

“I didn’t think of it in that light. It might, of course, refer to
charity.”

“Charity! And given to Walter Somers to disburse! I’m not an idiot, Mr.
Waite, and I give you credit for more intelligence than that.”

“Perhaps if you talk to Walter?”

“What good would that do? He’s as secretive as his father, and not so
honest. I know what you think, Mr. Waite; I know what you thought when
you were drawing that will. You thought Howard Somers had been leading a
secret life, and that this provision was to provide for somebody. Well,
I do not believe that, and I’ll fight that clause, and this will in
court if it ruins me.”

That was all. Katherine rose, and the men scrambled to their feet. She
gave to each of them a steady look, said “Thank you, you have been very
good to come,” and then turned and went out.

I did not see her again until dinner.

During the afternoon however, I heard Judy telephoning to Wallie, and he
came at six o’clock. From six until almost seven he was closeted with
Katherine in her room, and the very fact that their voices were never
raised seemed to me an indication of the tenseness of that meeting.

There was no compromise in either of them. Only suspicion and jealousy
on Katherine’s part, and a fury of hatred and revenge in Wallie. I know
now that a little gentleness, some remorse for that tragic youth of his,
and he would have weakened. But poor Katherine was as she was; she made
no play for sympathy. She sat perfectly still and interrogated him.

“You refuse to say what this secret fund was for? Or for whom?”

“Absolutely.”

“You know what you are doing, of course. You are allowing your father’s
memory to be besmirched. For I warn you I shall take this will into
court.”

“Then it will be you who are doing the soiling,” he said, and stood
turning the ring around his finger.

Just before seven he went down the stairs and out the front door. I was
sitting in the library, but he did not turn his head.

In the meantime other things were happening of which we had no knowledge
at the time. We knew of course that Mr. Henderson had been to the
District Attorney, and that the police had learned that the two murdered
women had been the witnesses to the second will.

But we knew nothing of the activities of the night watchman in New York,
Charles Parrott.

He was shrewd enough, this Parrott, but even a stupid man might have
been suspicious. Here was Howard receiving a secret visitor at two in
the morning, a man who ducked in past him, with his cap drawn down over
his head, a large ulster overcoat and a muffler about the lower part of
his face. And in the morning Howard was dead.

That apparently roused no suspicion in itself. But two things followed
it. One was that fatal attempt of Mary Martin’s to bribe him to say
nothing of the night visitor. That had failed, and so she had vanished.
Then there was that early morning search of mine. He was still on duty,
and the sight of a woman of my age wandering in that courtyard in the
rain and carefully inspecting the ground must have been unusual, to say
the least.

And then came that fatal move by Dick Carter the day of the funeral.

“Which one is it?” Parrott had asked.

“Dark coat and striped trousers,” said Dick.

“Well, he’s the same build, I didn’t see much of his face.”

He read the papers, and he knew Sarah Gittings; knew about her murder
too, and Florence’s, the “Shoe” murders.

He went to Evans, the valet, a day or so later.

“Did you see Mr. Somers when he died? I mean before he’d been moved?”

“I did,” said Evans with dignity.

“How about his feet? Did he have anything on them?”

“I believe he was in his stockings,” said Evans, and through the simple
and fortuitous circumstance that poor Howard had dropped his slippers
before he picked up his highball, Parrott went to the police!

The rest is shrouded in mystery. Some time toward the end of that week a
lieutenant from the homicide squad in New York took a train and saw
Inspector Harrison and the District Attorney. On Monday an order was
obtained to disinter Howard’s body, and a secret examination made.
Nothing was given out, even Katherine did not know.

But it was discovered that Howard Somers had died, not of an acute heart
attack, but of cyanide of potassium, “probably administered in whisky.”

Cyanide of potassium! And Howard had had a cold, and could not detect
its peculiar and unmistakable odor; and Mary Martin had opened the
windows, so that no one else might notice it. Opened the windows and
broken the glass.

They kept their secret well, did the authorities. After all, murder had
not been proved; men with hopelessly broken health had killed themselves
before this. And our own local authorities were not minded to let go of
Jim, anyhow. They had Jim, and now they had the motive.

Mr. Waite saw the District Attorney that afternoon, Tuesday, the
seventeenth. I think myself that he was frightened. And small wonder. Of
the three who had met in that room at the Imperial Hotel only he himself
was left.

He must have been worried; he must have wondered how long he had left
for those little vacations to cure his arthritis, for the pleasant
routine of his office, for his golf and bridge, for the little dinners
with good wines and his friends about him.

So it is not extraordinary that he went to the District Attorney that
morning after he left us, and asked for police protection. Or that in
doing so he virtually signed Jim Blake’s death warrant. The District
Attorney listening absorbedly and Mr. Waite telling that story.

“And what do you make out of it, Waite? There was still a valid copy of
the will among Somers’ papers.”

“Wills have been destroyed before this.”

“You think the Gittings woman got the copy to show Blake, and then he
killed her?”

“He may have, hoping to get hold of the original later.”

“And later on the Gunther girl got troublesome and had to be put out of
the way?”

“Something like that, perhaps. I don’t know. It’s damned sordid. Only I
don’t want to be the next to go!”

“You’re all right. As for its being sordid, almost all motives for
crimes are sordid; cupidity, sex jealousy. Sordid, all of them, but
actuating motives just the same. Well, you don’t need a policeman; we’ll
get this bird now, thank God. The press has been yelling for weeks, and
I’ve had a few letters myself.”

That was on Tuesday afternoon, May the seventeenth.

That night the District Attorney sent for Jim to question him for the
second time, and in Jim’s absence they searched his house; issuing a
search warrant on a trumped-up charge against Amos for bootlegging.

For the sake of form two Federal officers ostensibly conducted the
search, but Inspector Harrison actually did so. Amos opened the door,
and protested violently that he knew nothing of any liquor. But they
pushed past him and went upstairs, taking him along. In Jim’s room they
found the golf suit and the shoes which Amos admitted Jim had worn the
night of Sarah’s death, and later they smuggled them out. Also they
discovered that Jim had recently burned some letters, and Inspector
Harrison spent some time on his knees examining the fireplace.

But they still had that pretense of bootlegged liquor to carry out, and
they had not found the sword-stick. So they went over the house. Amos
was calmer by that time. It was only when they got to the door of the
cellar that he showed excitement.

“Nothing down there but the furnace, sir,” he said to the Inspector.

That made them suspicious, so they went down and turned on the lights.
At first glance it was unsatisfactory; a cement floor, a white-washed
brick wall. They went over that wall carefully for loose bricks, but
there were none. They were quite sure by that time that Amos was uneasy.
Indeed, one of the Federal officers drew a notebook from his pocket and
pretended to write down a memorandum. When he had finished he passed the
note to the Inspector.

“I guess that’s correct, Inspector?”

“I believe so,” said the Inspector.

But what he had read was this:

“Watch the darky. He’s scared.”

They started to search again.




                           CHAPTER SEVENTEEN


There is no record of that scene in the District Attorney’s office, but
from what we know now, and from what was brought out at the trial, I can
measurably reconstruct it. Jim, wary and uneasy, holding one of his
eternal cigars in a mouth that twitched steadily, taking the opportunity
they offered of lighting them, the careful bestowal of their ashes, to
think; and the District Attorney, firing questions at him, endlessly,
interminably.

“You knew nothing whatever of this will, then?”

“I never heard of it until Alex Davis told me, in New York.”

“He told you you had been disinherited?”

“Yes. That didn’t bother me. What worried me was my sister.”

“Why?”

“That’s evident, isn’t it? She was devoted to her husband. She had to
learn that without her knowledge he had done a thing which affected her
child as well as herself.”

“And in favor of her stepson.”

“Yes.”

“What were her relations to this stepson? Friendly?”

And Jim pausing, lighting a fresh cigar, or pulling on the one he had.

“Not entirely. The usual difficulty. He resented her.”

“And she resented him?”

“Probably. Somewhat.”

“You’re fond of your sister, Mr. Blake?”

“Very. She is all I have.”

“You saw this second will in New York?”

“I did.”

“Do you remember how the envelope was marked?”

“Yes. Perfectly.”

“It was endorsed in Mr. Somers’ own writing, ‘To be handed to my son
Walter in the event of my death.’ Is that right?”

“Yes.”

“Why was that, Mr. Blake?”

“I don’t know.”

“Doesn’t it show that Mr. Somers wanted to be certain that this will
reached his son’s hands? That there would be no—interference?”

“You can construe it that way if you like.”

“You had no knowledge of this will when you made that night visit to
Howard Somers?”

“I never made such a visit. How could I? You’ve had men watching me for
weeks.”

“Now, on the night of Sarah Gittings’ death, I want you to describe your
movements.”

“I have said all I intend to say. I went out for a walk. After I had
started I remembered that my sister, calling from New York, had given me
a message for Sarah. I went to a drugstore and telephoned, but she had
gone out.”

“What was this message from your sister to Sarah Gittings?”

“I’ve told you that. She wanted her to look after my niece, Judy. There
was a young man here she was fond of. My sister didn’t approve.”

“After you telephoned, where did you go?”

“I walked on. I went to see a woman. I don’t intend to say more. Then I
started back.”

“That would have been when?”

“Perhaps nine o’clock. I don’t know exactly.”

The District Attorney bent forward.

“And you still decline to give the direction you took?”

“I do. I have done nothing wrong. I decline to be put on the offensive.”

“But suppose I show you the route you took that night, Mr. Blake?
Suppose I tell you that from that drugstore you went to the path through
the Larimer lot, and down that path to the park? And that later you
returned by the same route? I warn you, Mr. Blake, that we know a great
deal, and that you are only damaging yourself by these evasions.”

And still Jim obstinately silent, and the District Attorney leaning back
in his chair and watching him.

“You carried the sword-stick that night?”

“I told you before that I did.”

“Did you see Sarah Gittings during that walk?”

“No. Absolutely not.”

“Yet you were on that path that night, Mr. Blake. We know that. You went
down that path into the park, and later on you went up again. At one
point you stopped for some time. You either sat or stood on that
hillside, and you smoked a cigar. You were not alone at that time. A man
does not pause on a dark hillside on a cool spring night to look at
nature.”

And then Jim made his unconscious admission.

“I was alone. Absolutely alone.”

“Ah! you admit then that you were there?”

“I was there, yes.”

“You met nobody? Talked to nobody?”

“I did not.”

“At what time were you there?”

And again that almost infinitesimal pause, and Jim mopping his forehead.

“I went down about half past seven.”

“And you came back?”

“Something after nine.”

“And reached your house a little after ten? Come, come, Mr. Blake,
that’s childish.”

“I don’t know the time.”

“What route did you follow, coming back?”

“I cut across the park, coming up by the bridle path near Miss Bell’s
house. From there I walked along the Avenue.”

“That would take you past the Larimer lot where the dogs were tied at
about what time?”

“Possibly a quarter past nine.”

“And you carried the sword-stick?”

“Yes.”

“Why?”

“There had been some hold-ups around the park. I don’t own a revolver,
so I carried the stick.”

“You saw or heard nothing suspicious? Near the lot, I mean?”

“I heard some dogs barking.”

“Where?”

“Back on the Larimer lot.”

“You knew Miss Bell’s dogs well, didn’t you?”

“Yes.”

“Well enough to recognize the noise they made? A dog’s bark is as
individual as a man’s voice, Mr. Blake.”

“I didn’t recognize them, no.”

“Where did you put the sword-stick, on your return?”

“In the hall, with my others.”

“And it disappeared from there?”

There must have been a slight delay, a slower reaction to that question.

“It disappeared. Yes.”

“Just when?”

“I don’t know. I was ill at the time.”

“How did you learn that it was gone?”

“I had gone into the hall to call Amos. I looked down, and it was not
there.”

“You didn’t ask Amos about it?”

“I don’t recall. I think possibly I did.”

“And he said it was missing?”

“That’s the way I remember it.”

“Now, Mr. Blake, I am going to the night of the twenty-seventh of April.
Where were you that night?”

“The twenty-seventh of April?”

“The night Judy Somers was struck down in the Bell garage.”

Jim stared across the desk.

“You are not intimating that I attacked my own niece, are you?”

“I have asked you a question.”

“I was at home. So far as I can recall, I have not been out of the house
at night since Sarah Gittings was killed. And I certainly never struck
Judy. That’s—that’s ridiculous.”

The District Attorney glanced at the paper in front of him.

“Do you recall the night when Miss Bell went to see you, after Florence
Gunther’s body was found?”

“Perfectly.”

“Had you sent for her?”

“No.”

“Not telephoned, or sent any message?”

“None whatever.”

“She walked over?”

“Yes.”

“But you sent her home in your car?”

“I did.”

“During the course of that visit, were the two crimes discussed?”

“Somewhat.”

“Did you make any suggestion to Miss Bell about your car?”

“I don’t know what you mean. It had been her car. I bought it from her.”

“There was nothing said about the carpet of that car?”

“Nothing.”

“Do you keep the mileage of this car, Mr. Blake?”

“No. Amos may. I don’t know.”

“Who carries the key to the garage?”

“Amos. I don’t drive myself.”

“You don’t know how to drive?”

“I can drive, but I dislike it.”

“Is the window of the garage kept locked?”

“Usually. Not necessarily.”

“If some one entered the garage by a window, could he take the car out?”

“Yes. The doors to the alley are bolted. The key is to the small door
into the garden.”

“That is, some one who wished to take out the car could climb through
the window, providing it was not locked, and take the car out?”

“Probably. The window is rather high.”

“But if he took a chair from the garden it would be easy?”

“I imagine so. I hadn’t thought of it.”

“So that if Amos had the key, it would still be possible to take the car
out?”

“I never crawled through a window and took that car out. If that’s what
you mean.”

“Do you know Miss Bell’s garage?”

“I’ve been in it once or twice.”

“It overlooks the ravine in the park, doesn’t it?”

“Yes.”

“Do you know the tool room?”

“I’ve never been in it.”

“But you know she keeps a ladder there?”

“I know she has a ladder. I don’t know where she keeps it.”

This, or something very like it, went on for hours. And some time in
that long interrogation they brought in the man Parrott. He came in on
some excuse or other, looked Jim over and went out again. Jim was not
suspicious.

But by midnight he was showing signs of exhaustion, and even the
District Attorney showed strain. It was a warm spring night. The men who
came and went had taken off their coats, but Jim still sat there in his
hard chair, neat and tidy, and twitching, and faced them all down.

“You still decline to account for the time between seven o’clock and
ten-thirty, on the night of April eighteenth?”

“I shall do that if necessary. Not before.”

“What were your relations with Sarah Gittings?”

“Relations? I knew her, of course. Had known her for years.”

“In case of distress she might come to you?”

“She might, yes.”

“Then this letter to you would not be unusual.”

“I never received a letter from her. Why should she write me? She could
have seen me at any time.”

“We have absolute proof that she did write to you, Mr. Blake. And we
believe that you received the letter.”

“You can’t prove that.”

“Perhaps not, but I can damned well try. Some one made an appointment to
meet Sarah Gittings on the night she was killed; to meet her and see
with his own eyes this copy of Howard Somers’ will which the Gunther
girl had abstracted from the files. From that appointment Sarah Gittings
never returned, and during that evening the copy of the will
disappeared.”

“Why should I destroy it? Or her? The original document was safe in New
York.”

“Did you know Florence Gunther?”

“No.”

“Never saw her?”

“No.”

“Never waited for her on Halkett Street, near a fruit stand, with a
car?”

“Absolutely no.”

And, if the two previous denials had lacked force, this last was
impressive enough.

But the heat and the tension were telling on them both. Hours had
passed, putting a fine edge on Jim’s nerves. He had exhausted his
cigars, and no one offered him any. He asked for water, and after a long
delay it came.

And then, on top of his exhaustion he was told that Howard Somers had
been poisoned. He very nearly collapsed, but if they had hoped to wear
him into confession they were disappointed. He was still fighting. But
he said a curious thing.

“How do you know he was poisoned? How do you know he didn’t take the
stuff himself?”

“I’m not answering questions. I’m asking them.”

Jim was angry now, however, and he braced himself for one last effort.

“I never went to New York to see Howard Somers the night he died. Some
one else used my name, that’s all. And the more I think over this
case—and God knows it’s all I do think of—the more I am convinced that
a definite attempt is being made to put the guilt on me.

“Why would I have killed him? I stood to lose by his death, not to gain.
He was my sister’s husband and my friend. If you are trying to show that
I escaped the watch on my house, climbed the window of my garage and
drove my car to New York that night, I swear before God that I never did
it, or thought of it. As for this will, I had never heard of a second
will until Alex Davis revealed its existence in New York.

“I swear before God that I have never killed any one, have never thought
of killing any one. And I protest against your methods. You are wearing
me out. But you can’t wear me into confession. I’m innocent.”

They had worn him out, however. His face was gray with exhaustion, and
sweat was running down his face. Now and then he ran his finger under
his collar, as though it choked him. The whirring of an electric fan,
the tick of a clock on the wall, and the District Attorney never
relaxing; watching him, firing at him his staccato questions,
deliberately trying to torture him until confession would be sheer
relief.

Some time in that last half hour a memorandum was placed on the desk,
and the District Attorney nodded his head.

“Send him in when he comes.”

Jim had listened, with an impassive face. But he felt— perhaps his
exhaustion had sharpened his faculties—that something vital had
happened. The questions began again, sharper, a little excitement in
them.

“You have admitted that on the night Sarah Gittings was killed, you
carried with you this sword-stick, and that later on it disappeared. You
had no theories about that disappearance?”

“None whatever.”

“You left it in the hall and it disappeared?”

“Yes.”

“And when did you notice that it had disappeared?”

“It was several days later. I don’t know exactly.”

“I think you do know exactly, Mr. Blake. It disappeared on the day Sarah
Gittings’ body was found.”

“Possibly. I’m not certain.”

“What is your explanation of that disappearance?”

“I’ve told you that before. I think it was stolen.”

“As a part of the plot against you?”

“Possibly.”

“You did not conceal it yourself? I mean, you did not feel that its
presence was a dangerous thing in your house?”

“I thought of that, naturally. Yes.”

“But you did not hide it.”

Jim made an effort, moistened his dry lips.

“Not exactly. I put it in a closet.”

“What closet?”

“The liquor closet, in the hall.”

“And you locked it there?”

“Yes.”

“Then the story that it was missing from the hall was not true?”

“Not entirely. But it is true that it disappeared. It was taken from
there.”

“You had the key to that closet?”

“Yes.”

“Was there more than one key?”

“No. I have wondered since if Amos took it. I was in bed. He could have
taken the key.”

“And why would Amos do that?”

He was utterly confused by that time, faint, sagged in his chair and
gray of face.

“He may have known—he may have thought——”

“_What did Amos know?_”

And then Inspector Harrison walked into the room, and laid something on
the table. Jim took one look at it, and fainted dead away.




                            CHAPTER EIGHTEEN


In the cellar Inspector Harrison had renewed his prowling about, the
Federal officers mildly interested, and Amos watching his movements with
a sort of fascinated terror.

He rapped on the cement walls again, inspected the ceiling. Now and
then, furtively, he looked at the negro, and it seemed to him that the
negro was increasingly alarmed each time he neared the coal cellar. But
the coal cellar was full of coal. It had overflowed into the main
cellar, and lay about. And suddenly Inspector Harrison remembered that
it was spring.

“Plenty of coal, for the summer?” he said to Amos. “Cook with coal?”

“No, sir. With gas,” said Amos.

“And when did you get in all this coal?”

“I don’t rightly remember, sir. Seems to me it was in May some time.”

Inspector Harrison stooped down, and cleared a few lumps from the margin
of the heap.

“What’s under here? Cement?”

“I don’t rightly know, sir.”

But it was not cement.

There was a shovel on the coal, and at first they put Amos to work on
it. He was terrified. He made noisy protests, but there were three of
them, grim and determined. They were not inhuman, however, for as the
negro began to play out they took the shovel from him. One after the
other, they dug into the coal, throwing it out into the clean cemented
floor, scrutinizing it, and then falling to work again. It required more
than two hours to clear the place, but at last they reached the end and
they had found nothing.

There was the hard-pounded black earth, glistening with black dust under
their flashlights, and no sign that it had been disturbed. One of the
men laughed.

“Well, that’s that,” he said, “and now I want a bath and a bed. Let’s
go.”

But the Inspector was not listening. He was watching Amos, and Amos was
smiling again.

“If that’s all you gentlemen want,” he said, “you all can go up and I’ll
put out the light.”

The Inspector was wiping his face, which was streaming.

“What’s the hurry, Amos?” he said gently.

“There’s no liquor here, sir. You’ve seen for yourself.”

“Have I? Well, maybe that’s so. Now, Amos, if you’ll go wherever you
have to go to get a bucket of water, and will bring it here——”

“There’s a lavatory on the first floor, sir.”

“Do what you’re told,” the Inspector said sharply. “And be quick about
it.”

The Federal officers were examining their hands for blisters and
swearing at the dust. Amos went cheerfully up the cellar stairs, and
came back in a moment with his pail. He carried soap and a towel also,
and his face was a study when the Inspector passed them back to him.

The next procedure, however, astounded the negro. With one of the
officers holding a light close to the surface of the ground, the
Inspector went over it carefully. He would pour a little water on the
earth and watch it, then move on, repeating the performance.

Suddenly he muttered something and asked for the shovel. Amos gave it to
him, his eyes fixed on the earth, his color the peculiar gray of the
terrified negro.

And there, not more than a foot beneath the surface, Inspector Harrison
came across the sword-stick.

I can still see the rather smug complacence of his manner at the trial.

“I then sent Amos for a pail of water.”

“Perhaps you would better explain to the jury your purpose in sending
for that water.”

“In case of buried objects the surface of the ground may not appear to
have been disturbed. In case however that it has been recently dug up,
small bubbles of air will appear when water has been poured over it.”

“And were there such bubbles?”

“Plenty of them.”

So there they stood in that cellar, the four of them. One of the Federal
officers whistled softly. Amos was staring at the thing, pop-eyed with
terror. It must have savored to him of witchcraft, that discovery; this
detective, this policeman, muttering incantations to himself and then
turning out that weapon into the cruel light.

“My Gawd Amighty!” said Amos, and turning, ran up the stairs.

They did not bother to follow him. The Inspector carefully wrapped the
thing in paper, and some one telephoned to the District Attorney’s
office. They had been holding poor Jim for the message.

But they held him after the message also. Jim Blake was placed under
arrest that night, and within three days he had been indicted by the
Grand Jury for the murder of Sarah Gittings.

He was to be tried only for the murder of poor Sarah, but in the opinion
of the public at that time Jim Blake was guilty of two, and in the minds
of the police, of a third one.

Press comment was universally approving. That the police would not have
taken this drastic step “without good and sufficient reason”; that
“murder is murder, whether committed by the gangster or by the
individual in high place in the community”; that “the District
Attorney’s office is to be congratulated in having at last taken steps
to solve these crimes,” these were some of the comments.

Jim had been arrested after one o’clock Tuesday night, or rather early
Wednesday morning, the eighteenth. Sarah had been dead for precisely a
month.

We were stunned with horror. It came as less of a surprise to me than to
the others, but it was a shock for all that.

We did little or nothing that first day. Jim was in a cell in the jail
and had sent for his lawyer, Godfrey Lowell. Late in the day Godfrey
came in to see me, and his face was very grave. Jim’s cell was damp and
the food terrible, but these things he passed by with a gesture.

“He’s not telling all he knows,” he said. “He says he’s innocent, and I
believe he is. But he isn’t frank. He’s holding something back.”

Nevertheless, Jim’s story as Godfrey told it to us that afternoon in the
library, was sufficiently damning. Katherine hardly spoke during that
recital. Dick sat holding Judy’s hand, but I doubt if Katherine noticed
it.

Briefly, Jim admitted having had an appointment to meet Sarah that
night, but not in the park or by letter. She had, he maintained,
telephoned to him. “I have never received a letter from her, then, or at
any time.” In this message, evidently sent after she had met Florence
Gunther on the street and received the envelope, she had asked him to
meet her that night on a very urgent matter.

The address she gave was a house on Halkett Street, and he determined to
walk, going by way of the park.

On the way, however, he found that he had left the house number in his
other clothing—he had changed to a walking suit—and he stopped at a
drugstore to call her up. She had started, however; he talked to Judy
for a moment and then went on, taking the short cut through the corner
of the Larimer lot.

He remembered that the house was in the seventeen hundred block on
Halkett Street, and that he was to ask for a Miss Gunther. When he
reached the block in question he had walked along slowly, and at one of
the houses a youngish woman was waiting on the steps.

He asked if she knew of a Miss Gunther in the vicinity, and she said
that that was her name, and that Sarah had not yet arrived.

They went together into the house and waited in the parlor. It was a
boarding house, but although the door into the hall was open, he saw no
one except a colored woman who passed by shortly before he left.

The Gunther woman had been silent and very nervous. As time went on and
Sarah did not arrive she seemed almost hysterical, and at twenty minutes
to ten he had gone away, still in the dark as to why he had been there
at all.

“Florence Gunther apparently refused to tell him,” Godfrey said. “He
came home by the same route, mystified over the whole business. He
reached the path up the hill at or about ten o’clock, stopped to rest
halfway up and then went on. He maintains that he knew nothing about
Sarah until he got your word that she was missing, and that he never saw
her that night at all.”

“And the sword-stick?” Judy asked. “What does he say about that?”

“That he hid it in the closet, but he did not bury it.”

Katherine spoke, after a long silence.

“When they found the stick, I suppose they had searched the house?”

“I understand that they did, and that they found certain things which
they believe strengthen the case.”

“His letters? Everything?”

“He had burned his letters. He had felt that this was coming, and
yesterday he more or less got ready. Nothing important, he says, but he
didn’t care to have them going through his papers.”

I thought that Katherine looked relieved.

I have re-read that paragraph. I know now that she was relieved. But I
do not know even now what she had thought of that frantic inquiry of
his, and his warning to send the reply by hand. It was burned, anyhow.
She must have found some comfort in that.

How could she know that after that scene in the District Attorney’s
office Inspector Harrison had gone back to Jim’s house, armed with a
small box and a delicate pair of tweezers, and had taken from the grate
in that handsome room of Jim’s certain charred and blackened fragments
of paper ash.

Some time, that day or the next, he must have spent a painful hour over
them. They had to be steamed and softened, and then they had to be laid
out on a gummed paper and carefully pressed down. But he had his reward
in the end. He had one sentence of nine words.

It must have puzzled him, however.

Late that evening the Inspector came in to see me, but he made no
mention of his discovery in the fireplace. He seemed indeed to be rather
apologetic, and he broke numberless toothpicks into fragments and
strewed the floor with them.

He had to tell me that Howard had been poisoned, and he plainly hated
doing it.

“No need of telling Mrs. Somers or Miss Judy,” he said. “After all, he
may have done it himself, although that would be small comfort to them.”
He looked at me. “Everything all right with them?” he asked. “Happy
married life, and so on?”

“Absolutely. He never killed himself, Inspector.”

“Maybe not. Cyanide of potassium,” he said reflectively. “Quick and
sure, but no imagination in it. No real imagination in any of these
murders, for that matter. Now Walter has imagination; Blake hasn’t.”

“Walter?” I said sharply.

“He didn’t commit them, of course. Why should he? Leave out his
affection for his father, and still he wouldn’t. The copy of the will is
missing. To kill the witnesses wouldn’t get him anywhere. No, Walter
Somers is out. I don’t have too much faith in alibis, but he didn’t do
it.”

Before he left he told me that the Grand Jury would have the case by
Friday, and that it would undoubtedly bring in a true bill. But he did
not seem particularly happy over it.

“The more I study crime,” he said, “the less I know about the criminal.
Take this case: these three murders were cold and audacious. They were
committed by a man without fear and without scruple. They were
fiendishly clever.

“Yet we run into this situation; we find and arrest the criminal,
because he has not been clever at all. He has buried his weapon in his
house, although if he killed Somers he could have dropped it into a
dozen streams on that trip of his. He has absolute nerve, a thing few
men possess, and he faints when he is confronted with it. He is strong
enough to get into that airshaft and to pull himself out later—a thing
I couldn’t do, and I’m a strong man for my age—and here’s his doctor
swearing he’s a sick man, has been sick for several years.

“I’ve built this case. I’ve got evidence enough to convict Jim Blake and
still have some left over. But I’m not satisfied. Not yet anyhow.”

He broke three toothpicks in rapid succession.

“Personally, I don’t believe we have scratched the surface of this
thing. Go back to the night Miss Judy was hurt. And, by the way, has she
ever told you why she went to the garage that night?”

“She said she wanted a foot rule.”

“But she asked Joseph where the ladder was kept, didn’t she?”

“Yes.”

“Now what did she want with that ladder? To look at it or to use it?”

“I haven’t an idea, Inspector.”

“Curious,” he said. “She had something in her mind. She’s shrewd. Now
let’s go over that night.”

“Joseph has heard the dogs barking in the shrubbery; they stop suddenly,
as though they had recognized the intruder. You and Joseph start to the
garage, and Joseph hears something. He calls ‘What’s that?’ There is no
answer, and you both go on. Some one is in the shrubbery, or has passed
through it. The next day I find footprints there; not the original ones.
Planted. And by the way, those prints were made by a woman’s shoe. I’ve
done some work on them! Not shoes from this house, however. Joseph and I
have seen to that.

“But here’s the point. Miss Judy was hurt at ten o’clock, and it was two
when Norah saw this figure in the grounds.

“And here is what I want to know. Where would Jim Blake go, between ten
and two o’clock at night, to get a pair of shoes belonging to a heavy
woman who walked on the outsides of her feet? He has no women in his
house. Even his laundry goes out.

“And why would Jim Blake cover those footprints as skillfully as he did,
and then bury that cane in his cellar? The act of a fool or a lunatic,
and the man who made those prints was neither.”

“Have you told the District Attorney all this, Inspector?”

“He wants an indictment. That’s his business.” And he added: “A man
who’s been indicted by the Grand Jury has a pretty hard time of it. His
trial may prove him innocent, but he’s got the stigma anyhow.”

He picked up a pencil from my desk, examined it, laid it down.

“Let’s go back still farther,” he said, “to when Blake first talked to
you about Sarah Gittings’ disappearance. When was that, and where?”

“In this room, the next day. When she did not come back I sent for him.
He was uneasy, but that was all.”

“You recall nothing else?”

“Nothing important. I remember now that he asked about Howard.”

“What did he ask?”

“It was something about his health, and if he was able to travel; if he
had been here lately.”

The Inspector slid forward on his chair.

“That’s an interesting point. Now why would he ask such a question? The
talk, I gather, had been about Sarah Gittings?”

“Entirely.”

“And he knew Mr. Somers’ condition, of course. Did you understand from
that that he had reasons for thinking that Somers had been in town?”

“Yes. I remember that it surprised me. He asked me if I was certain that
Howard had not been in town. I thought it unlikely, myself.”

“I suppose you have no reason to think that he had been here?” And when
I shook my head, “Don’t answer that too quickly. Think it over, Miss
Bell. Sometimes we think we know all about certain individuals, only to
find that we know nothing at all. Why did Howard Somers secretly alter
his will last summer while he was here? What is this secret fund of
fifty thousand dollars? And what made Mr. Blake ask if he had been here
recently?”

“I don’t believe Howard was here. He was ill, and his wife seldom left
him.”

“But it would be possible? Some night when his wife had retired early?
Or was out to dinner? He had a fast car, of course, and a dependable
chauffeur.”

“Possible? Yes, I daresay. But why?”

“That’s the point, exactly. If you can induce Mr. Blake to tell his
attorneys why he asked you that question it might be helpful.” He moved
impatiently.

“If people only told all they knew, there would be no miscarriages of
justice. But out of fear or self-interest or the idea of protecting
somebody they keep their mouths shut, and so we have these mysteries.
Look at you yourself; you burn that carpet, and produce evidence against
Jim Blake that to the average jury is enough to send him to the chair!
Why did you burn it? What did you find that we’d overlooked? I’d been
over that carpet with a fine tooth comb.”

“And there was no oil on it?”

“Oil! You found oil on that carpet?”

“I did indeed. A ring of oil.”

He got up and reached for his hat.

“It may interest you to know,” he said, “that there was no oil on that
carpet when I examined it, the morning after Florence Gunther’s murder.”

But whatever conclusion he drew from that, his last speech that night
was small comfort to me.

“Well, I don’t see how that will help with a jury,” he said, rather
heavily. “On the surface it’s a water-tight case, Miss Bell. He had the
weapon and the motive. The only thing he didn’t have—and you’ll have to
excuse the word—was the guts. Mind you,” he added, “I’m not saying that
Blake is innocent. He looks as guilty as hell. But I am saying that
there are discrepancies, and I’ve got to have an explanation of some of
them.”




                            CHAPTER NINETEEN


That was on Wednesday the eighteenth, a month after Sarah’s death and
about six weeks before Joseph was shot.

I went upstairs that night exhausted both mentally and physically, to
find Judy curled on my bed and very despondent.

“Let me stay awhile,” she pleaded. “Until mother comes in, anyhow. I
want to talk.”

“I didn’t know she had gone out,” I said in surprise.

“She took Robert and the car. I think she went to Uncle Jim’s. To Pine
Street.”

That surprised me, but Judy explained that it was to select some
clothing to be sent to the jail.

“Only why would it take her all this time——” she added, almost
pettishly.

“I didn’t hear the car.”

“You’re a little deaf, you know, Elizabeth Jane. I wouldn’t be surprised
if a lot goes on that you don’t hear. Or hear about.”

“What goes on that I don’t hear about?”

“You didn’t hear Elise scream last night.”

“I had taken a sleeping tablet,” I said with dignity. “And what did
Elise scream about?”

“She saw the ghost,” said Judy.

And when I came to examine that story, and to talk to Elise, I had to
admit that she had seen something.

The Frenchwoman was still pale when I saw her. It appears that she had
wanted to tell me the story, but that Joseph had sternly ordered her to
keep quiet. Also that she was under no circumstances to tell the women
servants, or she might “have the cooking and the housework on her
hands.” That seems to have been sufficient, but she had told Judy,
talking in her rapid gesticulating French.

But her story gained credibility by the fact that she spoke no English,
although she had understood Joseph well enough. She could have had no
knowledge of the talk in the kitchen and servants’ hall, and indeed
Joseph had told me later that he had warned both women to keep their
mouths closed over the whole business.

Her story, punctuated by dramatic pauses where Judy saw that my French
was inadequate, was as follows:

She was occupying Mary Martin’s room, and the night as I have said was
sultry and like midsummer. She went to bed leaving her door open, but
the breeze was from the opposite side of the house. She got up and
opened the door across, thinking that it belonged to a room there.

It was, however, the door to the attic staircase which she had opened,
and she was surprised to find not only the steps but that a faint light
was going somewhere above.

She was curious rather than alarmed. In her bare feet and night dress
she went on up quietly, but not thinking of caution. However, near the
top she must have made some sound. She had only an instant to see a
white figure bending over something. The next moment she was stumbling
down the staircase. But she was not quick enough. The thing, and she
shuddered when she said it, the thing overtook her and passed her. She
felt the brushing of its spectral garments, as she put it, and it was
then that she screamed.

When Joseph found her—the women would not stir out of their rooms—she
was locked in her room and was still screaming. It was some time before
he could induce her to open her door.

When I talked to her, which was that night, she was still sitting in
Katherine’s room and obstinately refusing to go to bed.

“I think you dreamed it, Elise,” said Judy. “What’s the use of being a
fool? There is no such thing as a ghost.”

“I saw it. I touched it, mademoiselle.”

“Well, you can’t touch a ghost. And mind you, nothing of this nonsense
to mother. Go to bed and say your prayers. That ought to help.”

We had to take her up ourselves finally, and wait until she was safely
locked in. Then and only then did Judy look directly at me.

“Now,” she said. “She saw something, or somebody. She may be an idiot,
but I’ll say this for her. It takes a lot to keep her out of her bed.”

Together we went up to the attic, but although it was rather ghastly at
that hour of the night, I could not find that anything had been
disturbed. Judy it appeared had been up before, and had found nothing.

It was from Joseph, still waiting in the pantry to admit Katherine, that
I secured what looked like a partial explanation.

“The sewing room window on the second floor was open,” he said. “I think
he got out there, madam. He could drop to the roof of the kitchen
porch.”

He had, it seems, instructed Elise to say that she had seen a mouse!
Which as Judy said was from the sublime to the ridiculous.

Katherine came in very late, and I thought she looked rather better.

She had been going over Jim’s house, she said, and she had decided to
move over there.

“It looks as though I shall be here for some time, Elizabeth,” she said.
“At least until they have cleared Jim of this ridiculous trumped-up
charge. And there are three of us. I don’t like to crowd you. I can get
the servants from New York, and be quite comfortable.”

I made no demur. I saw that she was determined, although Judy looked
rather unhappy over it.

“What will you do with Amos?”

“I shall let him go,” she said with decision. “I don’t like him and I
don’t trust him.”

The net result of which was that Amos gave his damaging testimony before
the Grand Jury and then disappeared.

That was on Friday, May the twentieth.

I daresay some such system must exist, but the whole proceeding drove me
almost to madness. And it was sheer farce from beginning to end. The
result was a foregone conclusion, with as Godfrey Lowell says, the
indictment typed and ready to sign before it began.

There was no chance from the first; from that sonorous opening by the
District Attorney: “Gentlemen of the Grand Jury, it becomes my duty this
morning to bring to your attention a most serious case. On the night of
the eighteenth of April last, when most of us were peacefully asleep in
our beds, a human life was ended under circumstances so brutal that they
stun the normal mind. A woman named Sarah Gittings, a nurse, devoted
solely to a career of service, was atrociously murdered.” There followed
certain details, dramatically presented, and after that: “Through the
efforts of the police department an array of facts has been discovered,
which point to a certain individual as the guilty man. These facts will
now be presented to you by certain witnesses, and it is for you to
decide whether a true bill shall be presented against this prisoner, or
not.

“Shall we proceed, Mr. Foreman?”

From that until the end the mounting testimony against Jim was
appalling. The District Attorney grew more and more unctuous, and his
secret satisfaction was evident. When all was over he made, I believe, a
dramatic gesture with his hands, and standing by the table, ran his eyes
along the half circle of chairs.

“Gentlemen,” he said, in a low voice, “I have done my duty. Now must you
do yours.”

As he closed the door behind him and stepped into the hall, Dick says
that he was still acting for the benefit of the press men and the crowd.
He stood still, half leaning against the door like an exhausted man, and
mopped his forehead with a fine handkerchief, faintly scented. Then he
drew himself up, justice personified, and marched along the corridor.

But in between those two dramatic moments were two days of sheer horror
for us.

The secrecy of the procedure, the oaths of silence, the occasional
cheerful amusement of the twenty-three men who sat in that semicircle of
chairs, the terrified or determined faces of the witnesses, the avid
crowd of reporters outside studying these faces as they came and went,
and then rushing to their typewriters: “It is reported that Miss Bell
stated——”

Building a case that might send a man to the chair, out of staircase
gossip, a look, a gesture, or such information as was refused by the
District Attorney but managed somehow to reach them _via_ his office.

Experts came and went. The heap of exhibits on the long table grew; poor
Sarah’s stained and pierced clothing, the ghastly fragments of Florence
Gunther’s checked dress and blue coat, for although Jim was only charged
with Sarah’s murder, there were no legal limits, no laws of testimony,
to be considered before the Grand Jury.

The sword-stick was brought in, its ancient mechanism arousing a sort of
childlike interest among the jurymen; and small boxes of earth, each
duly ticketed and bearing the impress of the stick as Jim had touched
the ground with it. And Dick telephoned once to say that there was a
story among the newspaper men that something had been carried in,
carefully covered with a cloth, and that the story was that a letter Jim
had burned had been restored, and had been introduced as incriminating.

We were all in the library, and I thought Katherine started when Judy
repeated this. But she said nothing. She sat staring at her emerald
ring, and made no comment.

The list of exhibits grew. Sarah’s uniform, with a mirror so that the
writing on the sleeve might be read; the plaster casts of the foot marks
Inspector Harrison had made in my garden; the snaps from the carpet
which had been rescued from my furnace; even the pencil which Wallie had
found in the airshaft, the fragments of broken glass from my drawing
room door, the rope which had once tied the dogs, and had later on been
used to drag poor Sarah’s body down the hill; and certain pages in
Sarah’s own hand of her sickroom records, designed to show that the
reversed writing on Sarah’s sleeve was authentic.

There were photographs, also. Showing the sewer structure, showing poor
Sarah within it, showing the well-marked spot where the body had lain
near the tree, and that room of hers as it was discovered the next day.
Florence’s room was there too, and Sarah’s, in the disorder in which we
had found it on the morning of the nineteenth of April.

It must have been like sitting through a crime play to those jurymen,
lifted out of their humdrum lives into that welter of crime and clues
and blood.

And against all that, what had we? My own testimony, received with
evident scepticism, that the man on my stairs the night of Sarah’s
murder had not worn light golf knickers, but conventional dark trousers!
At no time was it brought out that the stains in Jim’s car had been put
there later; were not there when the police examined it the following
day. It was sufficient that I had burned the carpet. And when I
suggested that any juryman over forty was welcome to try to hang in the
light shaft by his hands, and then to try to pull himself out of it,
there was general laughter.

There was also one other development which left us in little doubt of
the final outcome. This was the introduction on the second day of the
colored woman, Clarissa, from the Bassett house on Halkett Street.

It was Dick too who reported this to us. He had seen her taken in,
uneasy and yet somehow deadly. A big woman, powerful and determined but
frightened. When she came out her relief was manifest, and Dick took
advantage of that relief. He followed her, caught her at a corner, and
brought us what he had learned.

Briefly this woman, Clarissa, having positively identified Jim at the
jail, stated that on the night of Sarah’s murder he had spent some time
at the Halkett Street house with Florence Gunther. He had sat in the
parlor with her for an hour or more, and she remembered that he had a
stick.

That we already knew. But she had further testified that, going forward
to lock the front door before leaving for the night, she had heard Jim
speaking and that she remembered distinctly what he had said.

“He said: ‘I’d better start, then. I may meet her on the way back.’”

Some little hope however we had on the second day. The jury sent out for
copies of the two wills, and they were duly produced. It looked for a
time as though they might be looking for a larger picture; that the
clause referring to the fifty thousand dollars might lead elsewhere.

But to offset that the District Attorney produced those two exhibits
which he had held for the psychological moment. He brought in Jim’s
walking suit and his golf shoes, to prove that by laboratory test there
was blood in minute quantities on both. And he re-introduced the
sword-stick.

The blade of the weapon had been carefully washed, but from inside the
sheath, when it had been soaked in the laboratory, there had come a pine
needle of the same variety as had been found on Sarah’s clothing; and
unmistakable traces of blood. Human blood.

It was after that that the District Attorney made his dramatic gesture.

“Gentlemen, I have done my duty. Now must you do yours.”

I daresay none of us was greatly surprised at the outcome. Certainly at
least twenty-two out of the twenty-three men on the Grand Jury believed
Jim guilty, and the indictment was signed, late on the second day.

Katherine received the news better than I had expected.

“An indictment is not a verdict,” she said, quoting Godfrey Lowell, no
doubt.

Judy, however, took it very hard and as for Wallie, the effect on him
seemed devastating. Newspaper extras had announced the result, and he
came in while Judy and I were at dinner. Katherine had retired to her
bed, and to tea and toast on a tray.

“The damned fools!” he said. “The—damned fools!”

Judy looked at him out of eyes that were red and swollen.

“Since when have you changed your mind? You were sure enough.”

“Well, I was a damned fool myself. That’s all. He didn’t do it. And
he’ll never suffer for it; I promise you that, Judy. Nothing is going to
happen to him.”

“Even if you have to tell all you know? Why don’t you do that now and
save time? You might die or get run over, and then where is he?”

He said nothing. I had had a good look at him by that time and I must
confess that his appearance shocked me. His clothes were unpressed; his
eyes were congested, as from sleepless nights, and he had developed a
curious _tic_; now and again, by some involuntary contraction of the
muscles, his left shoulder lifted and his head jerked to the right. I
saw that he tried to control it by keeping his left hand in his coat
pocket, but in spite of him up would go the shoulder. It was pitiful.

I saw, too, that he had not wanted to come; that he had dreaded the
visit, and that to reinforce his courage he had taken a drink or two
before he started. Not that he showed any effect, but that the room was
full of it.

Judy eyed him.

“You look terrible,” she said. “And stop jerking. You’ll have me doing
it. Stop jerking and tell us where Mary Martin is.”

He said he did not know, and sat in silence until we had finished. It
was not until Judy had gone up to her mother and we had moved into the
library that he spoke again.

“Look here,” he said. “How soon are you going away for the summer?”

“How soon are they going to release Jim Blake?”

“That’s ridiculous,” he said sharply. “He’s well enough where he is.
He’ll get some of the cocktails and food out of his system, that’s all.
They’ll never send him to the chair. They can’t send him to the chair.
It’s absurd.”

But it seemed to me that he was listening to his own words, trying to
believe them; and that when he looked at me his bloodshot eyes were
pleading with me. “You believe that too, don’t you?” they said. “They’ll
never send him to the chair. They can’t send him to the chair. It’s
absurd.”

“When I’m certain of that I shall go away. Not before, Wallie.”

He jerked again, rather dreadfully.

“Not if I ask you to go?” he said.

“Why should you ask me to go?”

“Because I don’t think you are safe here.”

“Who could have any design against me? I have no enemies; no actively
murderous ones anyhow. I mind my own business and my conscience is as
clear as the ordinary run of consciences. Why should I run away?”

“I’m telling you. That’s all. Get away, and get Judy away.”

“Then you know something I don’t know, and it is your business to tell
me what it is.”

He refused to be drawn, however, and with all the questions I had in
mind, managed to get away before I could ask him any of them. Save one,
and that had a curious effect on him.

“Can you tell me,” I said, “why Mary Martin suggested to Judy that your
father should not be left alone at night?”

“Because he was sick. That’s enough, isn’t it? Why try to read into this
case something that isn’t there? And why drag her in? She has nothing to
do with the case. Absolutely nothing. She’s as innocent as—as Judy.”

I made my decision then, to tell him the facts as to his father’s death.
I told him as gently as I could, with my hand on his arm. But he showed
no surprise and pretended none. Save that he grew a shade paler he kept
himself well in hand.

I felt then that he had been certain of it from the day Howard died.

Jim was arraigned a day or so later. It was a hideous ordeal for him,
and for the rest of us; the courtroom crowded, and the crowd hostile. It
seemed to me that the concentrated hatred in that room was a menace in
itself, that if thought is a force, as I believe that it is, there was
enough malignancy there to have destroyed a man.

They had brought him from the jail in the Black Maria; very carefully
dressed, he was, and holding his head high. He had not come alone. There
were criminals with him, black and white and even one yellow man. He had
to wait while they entered their pleas, and he fixed his eyes on
Katherine. I saw her smile at him, and her whole face warmed. A queer
woman, Katherine, filled with surprises.

He listened gravely to the reading of the indictment, and nodded a sort
of mute thank-you to the clerk when he had finished. I saw him draw a
long breath, and I fancy he had meant that his “Not guilty” was to be a
full-bodied and manly thing, a ringing assertion of his innocence. But
he failed. At the last moment he looked at the crowd, and its
concentrated hatred struck him like a blow in the chest. I saw his
spirit fall under it and lie there, a broken thing, and Judy moaned a
little. His “Not guilty” was not heard beyond the front benches, and he
knew it.

Some hysterical woman somewhere giggled, and he heard it. I have never
seen such torture in a man’s face. When they took him out he stopped at
the prisoners’ door, as though he would come back and face them down,
but Godfrey Lowell put a hand on his arm, and he went out to face again
the battery of news photographers waiting outside.

I have one of those pictures now. It shows him handcuffed to another
prisoner and with his head bent. The other man is smiling.




                             CHAPTER TWENTY


So we entered into that period of dreadful waiting between the
indictment and the trial. Not that the waiting was to be long. The
prosecution was doing everything possible to get the case on the docket
before court closed in June, and the press was urging haste.

On the twenty-fourth of May, Tuesday, Katherine moved into Jim’s house,
and took Judy with her. Apparently she paid no attention to the curious
looks of the neighbors, or to the cars which halted in the street to
survey the house. She was like a woman set apart, not so much hardened
as isolated.

As Laura wrote: “She seems superhuman to me. I’d come on if she wanted
me, but quite frankly she doesn’t. And what is this mysterious fund,
anyhow? Poor dear Howard leading a double life seems rather incredible,
at his age and with that heart of his. As for the rest of it, I don’t
see why Wallie shouldn’t have his share. No matter what you think about
Margaret, she stood by Howard in the early days, and he was certainly
crazy enough about her; although I wouldn’t care to tell Katherine
that.”

She said she would be on for the trial, and to be sure to get the best
men to defend Jim; and she ended by saying that the whole thing was
preposterous, and that the Grand Jury must be insane. “Collective
insanity,” she put it.

Dick was rather at a loose end after the move. There could be no
informal dropping in at any house of Katherine’s. Amos was gone, and a
part of her own staff from New York had taken his place. Just how they
found houseroom I do not know, but somehow they managed. Judy reported
to me daily, and so matters went on for a week or so; Jim in jail, I
alone once more in my house, and Katherine moving silently and austerely
about that little house, sipping her after-dinner coffee in the back
garden and passing, in order to reach it, the door to the liquor closet,
and the passage to the cellar stairs.

Then one day Judy told me that her mother wished to see the manager of
the Imperial Hotel, and wanted me to go with her.

“But why, Judy?”

“She didn’t say. She thinks something must have happened here last
summer; I know that.”

“The hotel wouldn’t know about it.”

“They might know if father had had any visitors.”

She glanced at me, then looked away. I think she felt that there was
something shameful in this prying into a dead man’s past, and that she
had herself refused to go.

I agreed, however. It seemed the least I could do, although I do not
frequent hotels. I had never been inside the Imperial in my life. I
daresay I belong to a generation which is absurd to the present one, but
it has always seemed to me that well-bred folk should use hotels as
necessities, not for pleasure.

But the hotel manager, a short ruddy man, swollen somewhat with good
living, was unable to help us.

“I knew Mr. Somers well, of course,” he said, “and I gave him the suite
he usually occupied. I remember asking him if he wanted so much space,
for he came alone. Usually he brought his valet. He said he did, and I
went up with him myself.

“I thought he looked tired, and I suggested he have dinner in his
sitting room. He said he would, and that his son would dine with him.

“The attack came on just after dinner. I was in the lobby when the word
came, and I went up. The hotel doctor was there, and we got Doctor
Simonds also. He—it looked pretty serious for a while.”

“Walter Somers was there when it occurred?”

“Yes. He telephoned for help.”

As to visitors, he did not know. The floor clerk might remember. From
her desk near the elevator she could see the doors of the suite clearly,
and of course Mr. Somers was an important guest. It was a chance,
anyhow. She had known Mr. Somers for years, and naturally his grave
illness had been a matter of interest and solicitude.

A pleasant enough little man, if rather unctuous. He took us to the
sixth floor and left us with the floor clerk. I imagine he had wanted to
remain, but Katherine’s “thank you” was a dismissal. He turned and went
away.

The clerk at the desk on the sixth floor turned out to be a middle-aged
woman, with keen eyes and a shrewd mouth. Long ago, I daresay, she had
lost any illusions as to the men and women whose comings and goings it
was her business to watch. They came and went, intent on their own
affairs, hardly aware of her at all. But she saw them and studied them;
their tragedies, their serio-comedies. A thousand small dramas were
played about her, and sometimes she was audience, and occasionally she
was God.

I saw that Katherine had impressed her, even before she heard her name;
her air of breeding, the heavy handsome black she wore. But Katherine
was intent on herself and her problem; her eyes were on that long
corridor, with its mirrors and heavy jars, its chairs and its rows of
doors.

“You were here, I believe, while my husband was ill last summer?”

“Yes, Mrs. Somers. He was in six-ten, the corner suite down there.”

But Katherine did not look, although I did.

“And I suppose that you know we are in trouble. Very great trouble.”

“I do indeed. I am so sorry.”

But the interview, at the time at least, appeared to develop very
little. Miss Todd, the floor clerk, was on duty from four o’clock in the
afternoon until midnight, when she turned in her keys to the main office
and went home.

She knew of no visitors to Howard during those hours.

“His son came and went,” she said. “At first, when Mr. Somers was
critically ill he stayed all night, getting such sleep as he could, and
there was a day nurse and a night nurse. When Miss Gittings came she
replaced the day nurse, and after he began to gain strength she took the
case herself. The night nurse was dismissed. She wanted it that way.”

“The evening he was taken sick, do you remember anything unusual about
that?”

“Well, I do; in a way. Mr. Walter Somers came out about ten minutes
before the attack. He had his hat, and I remember thinking he had eaten
his dinner in a hurry. He came along to about that third door there,
then he turned right around and went back again.”

“And it was after that that he telephoned for help?”

“About ten minutes. Yes.”

Katherine hesitated. She was a proud woman, and only desperation could
have forced the next question.

“You don’t know if there had been a quarrel? Some excitement, to bring
on the attack?”

It was Miss Todd’s turn to look embarrassed.

“Well, I hardly like to say. The waiter, William, said there were some
words while he served dinner, and that Mr. Walter looked upset. But
these waiters talk a good bit.”

“He had no idea what the trouble was? Did he hear anything? I am sorry,”
Katherine interrupted herself, “but this may be more vital than you
realize. What was said? What did this William hear?”

“William’s gone now, but he said Mr. Somers had accused Mr. Walter of
lying about something. And he said: ‘You can’t put that over on me. I
know. I’ve got the facts, and if you think you are going to hold that
over me you can think again.’ Those are not the exact words, but after
he took sick William came here and told me.”

Katherine sat very still, thinking that over. It must have satisfied
that furious jealousy of hers that Howard and Wallie had quarreled. But
it must have puzzled her, too, as it was certainly puzzling me. She drew
off her gloves, sat smoothing them absently.

“But of course that was nothing serious,” Miss Todd went on brightly.
“Things were all right after that, and Mr. Walter was devotion itself.
He came in every day. He was nice to everybody. We all liked him.”

Katherine moved in her chair.

“Did Mr. Somers have any other visitors?”

“Well, it was summer and his friends were all away. There were the
doctors, of course; Doctor Simonds had called in several. But I remember
no callers.”

“Were you on duty when Mr. Waite came in?”

“Yes. Both days. The manager, Mr. Hendrickson, brought him up himself.
He had only the stenographer with him; she sat here until Mr. Waite
opened the door and signaled to her. A quiet person. They came back
again the second day, and I think they called up the notary from
downstairs. Mr. Walter brought him up, I believe, but I was at my supper
at the time.”

“Was his son—was Walter Somers with his father at these times?”

“On the first day he met Mr. Waite in the hall and took him in. But he
did not stay. He came out and rang for the elevator. I remember that,
because he brought me some flowers from the sickroom. He said his father
had suggested it. He had just received a large box.”

I saw a quick flicker of suspicion in Katherine’s eyes, and I knew that
her quick jealousy had been again aroused. Flowers to her meant a woman,
and with some justification, at that. Men do not ordinarily send boxes
of flowers to other men. And this had been in midsummer, when
practically all the few people Howard Somers knew in the city would be
out of town.

“Flowers?” Katherine said. “I suppose you have no idea who sent these
flowers?”

“I haven’t an idea,” said Miss Todd, looking slightly surprised. “Mr.
Walter Somers would know, of course. He came out and got some vases for
them.”

Katherine’s face set, as it always did when Walter was mentioned.
Nevertheless, she was calm enough on the surface.

“And who brought these flowers, Miss Todd? Walter Somers?”

“No. They were delivered by the florist. At least I suppose so. An
elderly man brought them. Usually such parcels are left here at the
desk, but he said he had been told to get a receipt for them, and I let
him take them in himself.” She stopped suddenly. “That’s curious,” she
said. “I don’t remember his coming back this way, now that I think of
it.”

“He delivered the flowers and did not come back?”

“He may have, of course. I was pretty busy that day, I just don’t
remember seeing him again. But there is a service staircase near the
suite. He could have walked down. I remember him,” she added, “because
it was a rainy day and he was soaking wet. He seemed old and feeble to
be out and working.”

She remembered nothing else of value. The messenger with the flowers she
had seen only once; a shabby man, elderly and with longish white hair,
and considerably stooped. Several times, during the illness, a squat
heavy-set woman had come to give Howard a massage. She had reported at
the desk the first time. After that she had merely nodded and passed by.

Visitors were forbidden. Walter came and went, getting little sleep at
the beginning but later on in better spirits. It was evident that Miss
Todd had liked Walter. Sarah Gittings had gone her efficient way. “Very
particular about his food she was, too!” As Howard improved he had
insisted that Sarah take a walk in the afternoons, and she did so. At
such times Walter often stayed with his father and read to him. Sarah
would wait until Walter could come, after office hours, and then
dutifully go out.

There was no fuel there for Katherine’s jealousy and suspicion to feed
on; the record of a normal illness, with no women visitors save a
muscular _masseuse_. No men, even, save Walter and the doctors, this
messenger from a florist, the elderly man with stooped shoulders and a
box of flowers, and Mr. Waite himself, sole survivor now of that little
group of three which had stood by a bed in that hotel suite and watched
a wavering hand sign a will which was to send four people to their
deaths and three others into danger and injury.

Before we left Miss Todd asked if we would care to see the suite.
Katherine refused, but I agreed. It seemed to me that the secret,
whatever it was, might lie there; that if the florist’s messenger could
depart by a rear staircase, it would be possible for others who wished
to avoid scrutiny to arrive by the same method. Something had happened
to Howard Somers in those rooms, I felt; something which had altered his
attitude toward his family and toward Walter, and which Jim had
indicated in his defense.

And—strange how things will come to one at the most unusual times!—it
was while walking down that corridor, with its Chinese vases on
pedestals, its gilt mirrors here and there over console tables, that I
thought of Margaret Somers.

Suppose Margaret were still alive? And suppose that Walter knew this,
had secured that fund of fifty thousand dollars for her? No wonder, in
that case, that he had refused to explain it! He had shown a real
fondness for Judy, and detest Katherine as he certainly did, he would
certainly never willingly invalidate his father’s second marriage at the
cost of exposure of Margaret’s deception.

So perfectly did this theory fit the facts that I found myself stopping
in the hall and turning to look back at Katherine, secure in the dignity
of her grief, handsome and immobile in her chair.

The suite was a four-roomed one. Each of the rooms opened onto the hall,
and the sitting room occupied a corner. To the right was the room which
Howard had occupied, and beyond it a small one for maid or valet.
Opening from the sitting room on the left was another bedroom, and just
beyond it lay the service staircase.

Miss Todd was explaining.

“The small bedroom was used by the nurses, as it connected with the
sickroom. The one beyond was kept for Mr. Walter, and for several nights
he slept there.”

But whatever their secret, the rooms yielded nothing.

I was still thinking of Margaret, and I wondered then if Katherine
suspected what I did; if behind her strangeness during these last weeks
there had been such a suspicion; a terror in which she saw her wifehood
not only stultified but destroyed, and Judy nameless. And I know now
that she had suspected, had feared just that. Why had Howard come,
almost stealthily, to the city, light of luggage and without his valet,
prearranging to meet Walter and dining upstairs so that they might talk
undisturbed, unless it was that Walter had some shocking and terrible
thing to tell him? Something which Howard refused to believe, and later
had believed.

When I went out into the hall again she had not moved in her chair.

Miss Todd glanced toward her.

“She looks very sad.”

“She is in great grief, naturally.”

She was locking the door. Now she turned to me swiftly, and lowered her
voice.

“He was a fine man, Mr. Somers,” she said. “No nonsense about him; you
know what I mean. If you sat where I do——! So you’ll understand me
when I tell you this: there was a young woman who tried to see him,
after he began to improve. I think myself that she had waited below in
the lobby until she saw Miss Gittings go for her walk, and then came up.
She didn’t come to the desk. She got out of the elevator somewhere below
and came up the service stairs. I happened to see her, or she’d have
been inside. She had tried the bedroom door, but it was locked, and I
caught her before she got to the sitting room door.”

“What excuse did she give?”

“She said she must be on the wrong floor. She was looking for a Mrs.
Stewart, from St. Louis. But I took the trouble to find out that there
was no Mrs. Stewart from St. Louis or anywhere else, in the house.” We
were close to Katherine now, so she lowered her voice still further.
“She was a pretty girl,” she added hurriedly, “with bright red hair. And
she went as white as a sheet when I spoke to her.”




                           CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE


I had plenty to think of that day, and plenty of time in which to think.

It is a strange fact that death or sickness brings friends in numbers.
They call, send flowers, telephone. But real trouble, a trouble like
ours with its accompaniment of tragedy and shame, embarrasses them. The
kindest thing apparently is to stay away.

I did not miss them, but I did miss the Inspector. I had grown fond of
him, and his visits had been breaks in what were long and not too
cheerful days. But he too, perhaps out of some mistaken sense of
delicacy, was absenting himself, and I was much alone.

I needed him badly that day. Elise’s discovery of a “ghost” in the trunk
room, the possibility that Mary Martin as long ago as last summer had
tried to see Howard, and that angry statement of Howard’s to Wallie, “if
you think you are going to hold that over me you can think again”; all
these must have some bearing on our mystery.

And he was friendly to us, I knew that. Friendly and not too certain of
Jim’s guilt. I was resolved that from now on there would be no
reservations on my part. I would show him the clock dial paper and tell
him of that quarrel in the hotel. But before I did that I would go over
Sarah’s record of Howard’s illness. She had a habit of scrawling on them
odd facts, not always relating to the patient.

“Set mouse trap,” I recall seeing on one of them long ago.

It was with a certain amount of hope then that I went up to Sarah’s room
that afternoon.

The records I had placed in the lower drawer of her wardrobe trunk, and
I got them out and laid them on the bed. They were all there; Judy’s
diphtheria, the measles among Laura’s children, the time I fell
downstairs and broke my collar bone, and Katherine’s periodical quinsy.

At last I found what I wanted. I sat back and went over it carefully.
The early days of that sickness at the hotel had been active ones; the
records showed treatments, hypodermics, careful comments on the
patient’s pulse, his weakness, his depression. It was clear that he had
been depressed.

Then came improvement. “Patient more cheerful.” “Appetite better.”
“Sitting up in bed today.” On the eighth day came an entry at four
o’clock. “Mr. Walter with patient from four to six while I took walk.
Reports him more cheerful.” After that, not regularly, but often, came
the entry, “Out for walk. Patient comfortable.”

It was not until I reached the date when Mr. Waite had made the rough
draft of the will, August 12th, that I found anything of importance. The
page for that date, and the one for the day following, were missing!

I could not believe it at first. I went over the record again and again;
I even searched the other records, neatly clamped together and docketed.
But it was not until I re-examined the page dated August 11th that I
found anything, and what I found was more surprising than helpful.

At the bottom of the column marked Notes, Sarah had written in pencil
“August 12th and 13th withdrawn for safekeeping.” And beneath that:
“Clock dial. Five o’clock right. Seven o’clock left. Press on six.”

“Withdrawn for safekeeping.” Then Sarah had known that she had written
something on those two pages which was of grave importance; I only
prayed that she had not known how grave. What visitors had she entered
in that column on the 12th? Or what had happened to make Howard Somers,
on that very day, decide to make a new will and leave Wallie a half of
his estate plus a secret fund?

It was beyond me. I locked the room, went downstairs and telephoned for
the Inspector.

He came that night, looking sheepish and uncomfortable.

“Didn’t know you’d care to see me,” he said.

“You know well enough that you don’t believe Jim Blake is guilty,
Inspector.”

To my alarm he shook his head.

“I’m not so sure. He was with the Gunther girl that night, according to
the colored woman. He knew about the will all right. Mind you, I’m not
saying he’d planned the thing. He got excited and angry, and Sarah
Gittings wouldn’t give up the will. Maybe he knocked her down first.
Then he went crazy, and he finished the job.”

My heart sank.

“After that he’d have to do away with Florence. She knew too much.”

“And Howard?”

“Murder’s not proved there.”

However, when I told him of what we had learned at the hotel, and about
Mary Martin, he seemed less certain.

“Funny thing about that girl,” he said. “We can’t locate her. You’d
think she’d be looking for work, but she hasn’t. The District Attorney
isn’t interested, but I am. She knows a lot, if you ask me.”

“Do you always find what you are looking for, Inspector?”

“Pretty often.”

And then I laid out on the desk that page from Sarah’s record, and the
clock dial Judy had found in Florence’s; shoe. His face was a study when
I explained the latter.

“So Judy found it, eh?” he said, and poked it with the end of a
toothpick. “Intelligent girl, Miss Judy. And what does she think it
means?”

“In view of the record, I think it indicates the place where Sarah hid
the two missing pages.”

He placed the two clock dial directions side by side, and fell to
studying them.

“They are not ciphers,” he said. “They are perfectly clear directions,
if one only——I suppose you’ve tried all your clocks?”

“The young people have,” I said resignedly.

“The chances are that it doesn’t refer to a clock at all. Something
which might be described in clock fashion; that’s all. And something to
which one or both the women had access. Not a safe, either.”

“You think I’m correct as to the records?”

“It’s probably so. What happened is this: until Sarah learned the terms
of the new will those records lay in her room. They had no importance,
no value. But she learned the terms of the will, and then for some
reason they were important. So she hid them. She may have hidden them
first in the wood cellar; that would account for the chair.

“But before she went out that last night she hid them again. Now let’s
see. She didn’t leave the house between her return at five-fifteen and
seven, when she left again?”

“I don’t know. I don’t think so.”

“Still, that means nothing. She didn’t die until ten o’clock. Between
seven and ten she was somewhere, and according to the colored women she
was not at the house on Halkett Street.”

I was tempted then to tell him Jim’s story to Godfrey Lowell of that
evening. But I did not.

“She went somewhere, and she hid those records,” he said. “Find where
she went and we find them, and perhaps some other things I’d like to
know. Why, for instance, with these two women dead, does the search for
these records go on? What did Sarah Gittings record on at least one of
those two days which is vital to the killer? Here’s Jim Blake under
indictment, and they’re apparently still important.”

“Still very important,” I said, and then I told him about Elise and her
ghost.

He asked at once to see the window, and later on he talked with Elise,
while I interpreted as best I could. It was not until he was with us in
the hall on the way out that he asked me if I suspected any of the
servants.

“They could be bribed, you know,” he said. “Are you sure all this fright
is genuine?”

“I have almost to put the women to bed myself, Inspector. As to Joseph,
he puts up a good front, but I notice that he draws the window shades
before dark now, and I’m terrified to walk suddenly into his pantry at
night, for fear he shoots me.”

“He still maintains that he was attacked?”

“He’s sure of it.”

I went out to the drive with him. It was a warm spring night with plenty
of stars, and he stopped and looked up at them.

“Mighty nice,” he said. “I like the stars. I like nature, too. And I’m
in this sort of business!” But a moment later he was advising me to get
back into the house.

“Either Jim Blake’s guilty, or whoever is guilty is still free. And
that’s not a nice thought, Miss Bell. It’s somebody who can think faster
than the police, and see every angle and every emergency. A dangerous
mind, Miss Bell, prepared to go to any length to attain its end. Big men
in business often have it, professional gamblers have it; some traders
on the Exchange have it. Lombroso says there’s a criminal type. There
may be. But there is a criminal mind, and this fellow has it.”

He waited to see that I got safely back into the house, and then went
on.

That was the evening of the 27th of May, and long shall I remember it.

At half past nine Judy and Dick came in. Katherine had made it clear
that Dick was not welcome at the Pine Street house, and so now and then
the two of them met in my library. On such occasions I would discreetly
retire, but I think even Katherine would have found these meetings
harmless enough. Early and late the two were on the crime. On one never
to be forgotten night, for example, Dick had lowered himself into the
light shaft by his hands, and found that it was just possible to obtain
a precarious foothold on the iron bar beneath.

But getting him out had been a different matter, and when at last he
hung panting on the sill, both Judy and I were exhausted.

“Well,” he said. “If Jim Blake did that by himself, he’s a better man
than I am, Rudyard Kipling.”

On this particular night they came in filled with suppressed excitement.

Amos had emerged from hiding long enough to see Dick that day, and he
had told him certain details which he had withheld before the Grand
Jury.

Dick did the talking, while Judy watched him.

“In the first place,” he said, “do you believe Jim Blake is guilty?”

“I do not.”

“Well, neither do we. But I’ve got something to tell you that will make
you think. Amos went into his room the next morning, and he found some
blood on Jim Blake’s clothes, and a handkerchief pretty well soaked with
it. He showed it to Blake, and Blake said he’d cut his hand the night
before. The hand was tied up, all right, and there was a cut. Amos saw
it later. Of course he might have done that himself to explain the
blood, but we don’t believe it. Amos is hiding because he doesn’t want
to tell that at the trial. He cleaned the clothes as best he could, but
when he sent the laundry out some time later he found that Jim had
washed the handkerchief.

“But there’s something else. The next day, after Sarah was missing, at
noon and after you had telephoned to him, Jim Blake got out of bed,
dressed in some old clothes and went out. It was raining, and when he
came back he was wet and his shoes were muddy.

“Now, I’ll admit that all that looks queer. I believe he was on that
hillside the next day, looking for something. What? Either he’d killed
Sarah and was afraid he’d dropped something incriminating, or he knew
something had happened there the night before.

“He was there. He saw somebody, or something, but he isn’t saying what
or who. Now why?

“Why has he done the things he has done? Why leave that sword-stick
around until the body is found, and then only put it in a closet? That’s
foolish.

“And why go to bed? Guilt? The normal thing would have been to go around
as though nothing had happened. But he goes to bed, like a baby. Now
what puts him to bed; if he wasn’t guilty he wasn’t scared. So what’s
the answer? He’s shocked. He’s had an awful jolt of some sort. He’s
either happened on the body, or on the murderer with the body. If he saw
only the body he’d have notified the police. But if he saw the
murderer——”

“I daresay I’m stupid, Dick. If he’d seen either of them, why not call
the police?”

Judy turned to me.

“Dick believes,” she said patiently, “that Uncle Jim recognized somebody
on the hillside that night, and that he is either afraid to tell who it
was, or that he has—other reasons.”

“For not telling?”

“For not telling.”

“Reasons so strong that he is willing to go to the chair rather than
tell them? That’s ridiculous.”

“Not if he recognized the person he saw on that hillside, or wherever it
was.”

And I saw between them once more that practically wordless exchange
which I found so irritating; Judy staring at Dick, and Dick making a
gesture, at once protesting and protective.

“But who could that be? Not Wallie. We know that.”

Judy looked at me, and I have never seen so tragic a look in a child’s
eyes.

“Dick thinks it might have been father.”

I do not blame them, poor young things. Indeed, thinking that over
later, I was not so sure that they were not right. Here was Jim, asking
the day after Sarah’s death about Howard, and if I was certain he had
not been down recently; and burning his papers later on, as though some
such inquiry might have been made by letter and answered.

And there was the whole situation; a secret will, to be kept from
Howard’s family, and even embodying a further secret clause. Howard
might have had reason in his own mind for desperate measures to prevent
Katherine learning of that will. And then, unable to bear that weight of
guilt, or confronted with Jim the night of his death, he had resorted to
suicide.

I was, however, profoundly shocked at the time, so much so that Judy
rang for some sherry for me.

“I know,” she said, “I feel like that too. But if Uncle Jim’s innocent
he’s not going to the chair. And it will be the chair unless something
is done, and done soon.”

Apparently there was something to be done, simple enough on the face of
it. We were to go, the three of us, to the path into the park, and there
conduct an experiment as to the possibility of recognizing each other.

“It’s the same sort of night,” Dick said. “Stars but no moon. You two
can go down to where Uncle Jim said he rested—” even then I noted the
Uncle Jim—“and I’ll cut across the hillside. I’ll stop when you can see
me enough to recognize me.”

And this we did. That end of the park was deserted, and we saw no one.
Dick left us at the Larimer lot, and cut across directly to the
hillside. We could hear him working his way through the brush for some
time, then we lost him. Judy and I followed the street to the path, and
then down the hill.

Halfway down we stopped and Judy lighted a cigarette. She had not spoken
at all until then. An unusual thing for her, and by the light of the
match I thought she was crying.

“It’s a crazy idea,” she said. “We’re all crazy. And why the devil
doesn’t he come?”

It did seem to be taking Dick a long time. Judy sat down finally, her
hands clasped about her knees.

“There’s more light than I thought,” she said. “That street lamp up
there helps. I can see you plainly, Elizabeth Jane.”

But stare as we might we could not see Dick, and at last Judy got up.

“I’d better go over,” she said. “He may have fallen.”

I had a queer feeling even then that something was not right. The
silence was appalling, and I remember wishing we had brought the dogs.
Judy was ahead, hard to follow in her black dress, and so we progressed
for some two hundred feet along the steep hillside.

But we did not find Dick at all. Judy was frantically calling him by
that time, and I remember looking up to see my own garage towering above
me, and so excited was I that I hardly recognized it. And then hearing
Judy’s voice Joseph came on the run, and in no time at all we had the
police there.

They found Dick unconscious in a deep wash beneath the Larimer lot.
Whether he had fallen or had been struck we did not know, but he had a
deep wound on the back of his head.

They took him to the hospital at once, and up to the operating room.
There was no fracture, however, but a bad concussion of the brain, and
both Judy and I spent the night in his room.

Some time during that endless night, with Judy sitting beside the bed
where Dick’s long figure never moved and nurses came and went in that
silence which is as ominous as death, a thought came to me, who seemed
not to be thinking at all. This thought was that here was a crime which
could not be laid to Jim; which might even help him. Whether Dick lived
or died—and I prayed God that he live—the unknown killer was still at
large.

And, now that Dick was to live, something of that relief, and more, was
in Judy’s mind.

Toward morning she got stiffly out of her chair and coming over to me
put her hand on my shoulder.

“You see, we were wrong,” she said, rather childishly. “We were both
wrong, Elizabeth.”

At dawn Dick became conscious and reached out for Judy’s hand. But it
was not until evening of that day that he told his story.

He had reached the edge of the lot, and was climbing down the hillside.
When he reached the gully he stopped, hesitating whether to cross or go
around it, and at that moment he heard a sound above him.

There was at this point no direct light from the street lamp, but a
faint reflected radiance. The crest of the hill, however, with the lamp
behind it, stood out clearly silhouetted against the night. And against
that outline something was moving; an indistinguishable mass, close to
the ground.

It was perhaps eight feet above him, and he had thought at first that it
was a dog. He decided to go up the hill and around the head of the wash,
and then the thing came at him. That was all he remembered, and even now
that is all we know.

It is probable that nothing more than surveillance of our movements was
intended. But Dick altered his course, recognition was imminent, and the
reaction was quick and violent.




                           CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO


With the surprising recuperative power of youth Dick was out again in a
few days. But although preparations for Jim’s trial were going on
rapidly, that attack had not only completely undermined the _morale_ of
my household, it was causing Inspector Harrison some sleepless nights
also.

He had examined the hillside again but without result. The weather had
been dry as well as warm, and there were no footprints. He was
completely baffled, and he did not hesitate to say so.

“I don’t want any miscarriage of justice,” he said. “I’m not like the
District Attorney. I do my work and my job goes on, convictions or no
convictions; and I don’t give a particular damn for the press. What I
want is the guilty man. And I’m not so sure we’ve got him.”

Dick had been hurt the twenty-seventh of May, Friday. On Monday morning
I came downstairs to find the Inspector having a comfortable cup of
coffee in the pantry. He was not at all abashed, put down the kitchen
clock which he had been examining, said briefly that it needed cleaning,
and followed me into the front hall.

After his habit, he stopped at the lavatory and looked inside.

“Has it ever occurred to you,” he said, “that that pencil Walter Somers
produced was not what he found in that air shaft?”

“I think Judy——”

“Ha!” he said. “Trust Miss Judy. She knows. Well, it wasn’t. Now, here
are the facts about that pencil, Miss Bell. In the first place, I
believe that it was yours; to be truthful about it, we found your
fingerprints on it. Yours, and Walter Somers’. No others. In the second
place, I believe it was taken from your desk that night, and
deliberately placed on that skylight. I have not said that it was taken
for that purpose, although it might have been. Do you recall Walter
Somers using a pencil that night? Before he started the investigation?”

“I don’t think he did. He may have.”

“He didn’t look into the skylight, get down and go on some errand into
the library?”

“He went in for some matches.”

“Matches, eh? Well, he’s a smoker, and the average cigarette smoker
carries them. I think he got that pencil, and let’s see if I’m right. We
have to remember, of course, that Walter Somers knows something he’s not
telling. Now, he looks down that air shaft, and he sees something there
which he recognizes; a key, maybe; or a watch charm, or a fountain pen,
or a false tooth! Anyhow, something that he knows at sight, or suspects.
He comes down, goes into the library for matches and picks up a pencil
and slips it in his pocket. He climbs the ladder, gets this object,
shows you the pencil instead, and there you are.

“Being afraid of nothing, he seals it up for the police. Clever, wasn’t
it? Only it was a bit too clever.”

“He fooled us all, then.”

“Not quite all of us,” said the Inspector cheerfully. “You’re not a
smoker, I take it?”

“I don’t smoke. No.”

“Don’t carry pencils around in your pockets?”

“Women have no pockets nowadays.”

“All right. And what sort of clothing did Walter Somers wear that
night?”

“His dinner jacket.”

“Black. Now here’s what the microscope showed, Miss Bell. That pencil
had been carried in the pocket of a black suit; in the side pocket,
where a man often carries a package of cigarettes. There were bits of
tobacco from cigarettes caught around the eraser, along with black
filaments from the pocket. Now, I’ve watched Walter Somers, He doesn’t
use a cigarette case; he carries his cigarettes in a paper packet in his
right hand coat pocket. And I don’t mind telling you that I’ve had that
coat, and that this pocket bears out the facts. He had that pencil there
before he climbed that ladder.”

“Walter!” I gasped. “But I thought you said——”

“Not so fast,” he warned me. “No, he didn’t kill Sarah Gittings, if your
alibi for him is correct. Although alibis are tricky things. Still,
three alibis are good and sufficient for anybody. But look at the case
against him!

“He gets his father to change his will in his favor. The news leaks out,
and he’s afraid it will get to Mrs. Somers and the good work will be
undone. So he kills Sarah Gittings for fear she’ll talk, and Florence
Gunther because she’s trying to see you and tell you what she knows.
Then, later on——”

“He would never have lifted a hand against his father.”

“No? Well, I daresay not. Anyhow, he didn’t. We have him checked for
that night too. But it’s a pity. It’s a perfect case otherwise. But to
get back to this pencil. We have only two guesses; either he had had it
in his pocket for some time, and substituted it for what he found on the
skylight. Or he already suspected or knew what was there, took the
pencil from your desk, and used the ladder to remove something which was
damaging.”

“To him?”

“Not necessarily; but to some one.” He sat back, thoughtfully. “I’ve
already said that this is a family matter, Miss Bell. I’ve never seen a
family more apparently united to frustrate justice and protect a
criminal! It’s disunited every other way, but when it comes to these
murders it turns a solid front to the world. Now, what was the purpose
of that little drama on the hillside the other night?”

“To see if poor Jim Blake could have recognized somebody there,” I said
defiantly.

“Precisely! And Jim Blake keeping his mouth shut and ready to take what
comes! Who is he protecting? Who is Joseph protecting? He helps somebody
out of that shaft, or at least to get out of the house. He finishes your
job in the cellar and burns the carpet, and later on he gets knocked on
the head for his trouble. How far can the police go, in a case like
that?”

They had not found Mary Martin. That is strange, when I think back over
it. She was not trying to hide; not then, at least. She was indeed, as
the Inspector was to admit disgustedly later on, “under their noses.”

Nor were any of us seeing much of Wallie. Judy suggested that he was
trying, like the police, to locate Mary.

“But why?”

“Because he’s crazy about her.”

“I don’t believe it.”

“Don’t you? I found her in his arms the day he came to New York, after
father died. He had gone out, but he came back.”

“Judy!”

“Well, I did. She was crying, and he was smoothing her hair and
whispering to her. I just backed out and let them be miserable.”

“She may have broken down, and he was trying to quiet her.”

But she only smiled, as from the depths of some secret knowledge which
she knew well enough I did not possess.

I thought over that after Judy had gone. I thought back to the night of
Sarah’s death, and Mary’s sudden pause in the drive when she learned
that Sarah was still out. Wallie had been nervous too, I seemed to
remember. At some time in the evening he had asked about Sarah.

“And where was Sarah, while all this was going on?”

“She was out.”

“And she’s still out?”

“Yes.”

It seemed to me now that he had looked slightly surprised and rather
thoughtful; but how much of this impression was due to what had followed
I was not certain.

But what did Mary Martin know? What possible business could she have had
with Howard? A business so furtive that she must wait until Sarah was
out, and so urgent that she had gone as white as a sheet when she was
stopped.

She had not gone to Walter. Her errand—providing there was an
errand—was one she was apparently concealing from Walter. It was a part
of that same motive which had lain behind that strange procedure of hers
when she had walked into Katherine’s New York apartment and by sheer
audacity superseded poor Maude Palmer.

According to Katherine she had not wanted me to know that she was there.

“Why?” Katherine had asked.

“She would think I had used what I know, to my own advantage.”

Frightened, beyond a doubt; pale, as she had been pale that day at the
hotel. But quietly determined. Hiding herself away in a little room
downtown, going out at night to throw something into the river, and
then—going to bed and “sleeping well.” As though some weight was off
her mind, as though now at last all was well, and safe. Poor Mary!

I had had my talk with the Inspector on Monday morning, and on Tuesday
he asked permission to go over the house once more. Never have I seen a
more exhausting search, or less result from it, unless I except the
bewildered indignation of the servants. But at the last I did a thing I
shall regret to the end of my life. I locked the ormolu cabinet and put
the key away.

Simmons was in charge, and he came to me about it. But I explained that
it had been examined, and that my mother’s Chelsea figures inside were
very precious and not to be handled. He was satisfied, and so it was not
opened.

Nothing else escaped them; the chair and sofa cushions, the mattresses,
even the kitchen utensils and the washing machine in the laundry were
closely examined; and the unfortunate Simmons spent some warm hours in
the wood cellar, carefully moving the wood. But they found no papers,
nor anything resembling a clock dial save on the clocks themselves.

The mere fact of the search, however, had greatly unnerved both Clara
and Norah, and had a result beyond any of our expectations.

Norah asked that night to be allowed to keep Jock in her room, and Clara
took Isabel. The total result of which was that I was awakened at three
o’clock in the morning by a most horrible scream. It seemed to come from
the back of the house, and was both prolonged and agonized.

I leaped out of bed and threw open my door. Joseph had similarly opened
his, and I heard his voice.

“Who is it? What’s wrong?”

There was a moan, and turning on the lights Joseph and I ran to the back
stairs. Norah in her night dress was crouched there on the landing, her
hands over her eyes.

“I’ve seen her!” she wailed. “I’ve seen her!”

“Stop that noise,” said Joseph sternly. “You’re scaring the whole
neighborhood. Who have you seen?”

“Miss Sarah. I saw her, right at the foot of those stairs. She was
standing there looking at me. In her uniform, too. All white.”

And to this absurd story she adhered with the dogged persistency of her
type.

It appeared that Jock had wakened and had demanded to be taken out. He
had whimpered and scratched at the door, and at last, none too happily,
Norah had started down with him.

At the top of the back stairs, however, he had stopped and given a low
growl. Norah had looked down. There is a lamp on the garage, and since
our trouble I had ordered it left burning all night. Through the pantry
window it sends a moderate amount of light into the pantry, and in that
doorway Norah claimed to have seen her figure.

“And after that, what?” I demanded.

“I don’t know. I shut my eyes.”

Only one thing struck me as curious in all this. So far as I know,
Elise, terrified by Judy’s dire threats, had said nothing of the figure
in the attic and was now at a safe and discreet distance.

The next day I went over the house again with Joseph. New locks had been
placed wherever possible and bolts supplemented them at the doors, and
in the basement I had had placed over the windows gratings of stout iron
well set into the bricks.

“What is it, Joseph?” I asked. “Do these women imagine these things? Or
is somebody getting into the house?”

“They’re very nervous, madam. And nothing has been taken.”

I looked at him. It seemed to me that he stood not so erect as formerly;
that he looked older and very tired. And lately I had noticed that he
was less certain in his movements, slightly inco-ordinate. I put my hand
on his arm.

“This is wearing on you, Joseph,” I said. “Would you like a vacation? I
daresay we could manage.”

But he shook his head.

“Thank you, madam, but I’d prefer to stay. I’ve been a bit shaken since
the attack; that’s all.”

“And you still have no idea who struck you?”

I thought that he hesitated. Certainly the arm under my hand perceptibly
tightened. But although I know now that Joseph knew perfectly well who
had struck him and that his very soul was seething with anger, it shows
the almost incredible self-control of the man that his voice was as
impassive as ever.

“Not the slightest, madam.”

He must have been intensely curious. That searching of the house by the
police, what did it mean? But he said nothing, asked no questions. A
perfect upper servant, Joseph. A very perfect servant.

The incident did not add to my peace of mind. I would lie in my bed at
night and imagine that I heard stealthy movements, faint stirrings. Nor
were these limited to the lower floor; sometimes they were over my head,
and once indeed in my very boudoir, next to my bedroom. When I called
out sharply they ceased and were not renewed.

It was on the second day after Norah’s experience, and sitting alone in
my study that evening, that I decided to spy on my house; to lock myself
securely in my room and listen to it. And this was less difficult than
may appear.

The old speaking tubes in the house are simple of operation. To use them
one opens them and drawing a long breath, expels it into the tube. The
result is a wail of no mean calibre, wherever the tube may lead. But,
once opened, these tubes are excellent conductors of sound, and as
during a long invalidism my dear mother had managed her household from
her bedroom, some four of these tubes led to the chamber which I now
occupy, practically forgotten but still serviceable.

Joseph was out, but Clara was in the pantry. I shall never forget her
face when I told her to go to the wood cellar and to bring me a small
piece of wood to the library.

“And a knife, Clara. A very sharp knife.”

“A knife, ma’am? A butcher knife?”

“The sharpest one you can find, Clara.”

She was still staring at me as I turned and went out, and it shows the
state of nerves in the household that after she had brought me the knife
she turned and ran like a scared rabbit.

I cut my wood—and also my finger—and in the end I managed to prop open
all the tubes except that in the pantry. After I had sent Clara to bed I
opened that one also, and by midnight I was safely locked in my room
with the lights out, and ready for my vigil.

For the first hour nothing happened. I heard Joseph come in the back
door, apparently pick up the knife, mutter something and put it away. I
heard the sound of the refrigerator opening and closing, and gathered
that he was taking a little refreshment up to bed with him. And then,
until one o’clock, there was a complete silence.

At that time I began to hear a faint sound. It came from the drawing
room, and was too far away to identify, but it was unmistakable. Now and
then it stopped, only to resume again. It was a stealthy scraping,
rather like that of a mouse nibbling at a board. And indeed, as it went
on interminably, I believed that that was what it was. The tube ran
through the old walls, and we are liable to onsets of mice, as are all
old houses.

I do not know how long it lasted, or when it ceased. It stopped
abruptly, and although I listened intently there was nothing further. No
stealthy footsteps followed it. The silence was complete.

I was up early the next morning, a trifle ashamed of the whole
proceeding, to remove the strips of wood. The drawing room was
undisturbed, as was the rest of the lower floor.

But Joseph was to interpret those sounds for me that very morning, and
with my breakfast tray.

“I think we will not be troubled again, madam.”

“Troubled?”

“At night. I have found the means by which the person entered.”

And so indeed he had. According to his story he had gone into the
drawing room to open it, and had set the rear door open. On the upper
step he noticed some bits of putty, and on examining it he found that it
was soft.

The device had apparently been a simple one. The old putty around one of
the panes had been carefully dug out and fresh soft putty substituted.
To gain access to the house it was only necessary to remove this, a
matter of a moment, and with some adhesive material fastened to the
pane, to draw it carefully out.

Inspector Harrison, examining the pane, decided that adhesive tape had
been used for this purpose.

As there is no path there, the steps leading directly onto the grass,
there were no footprints. But as a result of this discovery the
Inspector himself that day placed a heavy iron bar across the door, and
personally examined the doors and windows.

He was not entirely satisfied, however.

“That bolt on the door,” he said to me, “it’s beyond a normal man’s
reach from that pane. Now it’s conceivable that Joseph might forget that
bolt once, and on the night that somebody had planned to get in. But
twice, or a half dozen times! I don’t believe it.”

“He might have pushed it back with something. The man outside, I mean.”

“Well, he might,” he admitted grudgingly.




                          CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE


The immediate result of that discovery was my decision to tell Katherine
all I knew. Partly to save her in her trouble and partly because I did
not trust her discretion at that time, I had never told her about the
missing sheets from Sarah’s records.

She listened attentively while I told her of that excursion of Judy’s
and mine to Florence Gunther’s room, and of what we had found there, and
I showed her Sarah’s record of the eleventh of August.

“Have you told Godfrey Lowell that?”

“Not yet. I’ve been trying to locate the missing pages.”

She got up, rang the bell and ordered the car.

“It is hard to forgive you for this, Elizabeth,” she said. “To hold that
back, with Jim’s very life hanging on it!”

“I don’t see how it helps Jim.”

“Don’t you? Don’t you know what was on those records? That Howard never
made a will at all, or that he was drugged when he did it. One of those
two things.”

She had not waited for Elise. She was dragging out her outdoor garments,
hurrying about—strange to see Katherine hurry—with two purplish spots
of excitement high on her cheeks. Judy came in and stood by helplessly.

“It’s been clear to me from the start. That man Waite has forged this
will, and Walter Somers bribed him to do it.”

“With what?” Judy demanded.

“On his prospects. How do you know that fifty thousand dollars wasn’t
the bribe?”

She was still talking when we got into the car, still feverishly
excited. Judy begged her to be calm, not to say anything disastrous, but
I doubt if she heard her. But when she made that flat statement to
Godfrey Lowell, he sat upright in his chair, stiff and angry.

“I have the utmost confidence in Mr. Waite,” he said. “An accusation of
that sort necessarily involves his probity, Mrs. Somers.”

“How do you know how honest he is?” she said sharply. “Men have been
bought before this.”

“The will was witnessed. I can have those signatures examined if you
like. But——”

“What good would that do? The witnesses are dead. Maybe that’s the
reason why they are dead.”

But Godfrey shook his head.

“No,” he said. “I understand and I sympathize with you, Mrs. Somers. But
that will was made by Mr. Somers, properly drawn by a man above reproach
and signed and witnessed by two persons in Mr. Waite’s presence before a
notary. He has already sworn to that before the Grand Jury. He will so
testify at the trial.”

“Then why did Sarah hide the records of the two days when the will was
drawn?”

“She did that?”

“She did. What was on those records, Mr. Lowell? Did she show that some
pressure was brought to bear on Howard, or that he had been drugged?”

“Doctor Simonds says he was not drugged.”

“What does he know? He wasn’t there, was he?”

“Barring evidence to the contrary we shall have to take his word. He was
there that night, and Mr. Somers was normal then.”

Before we left he referred again to Katherine’s statement about Mr.
Waite.

“I know that you have had a great burden to bear, Mrs. Somers, and that
naturally it is difficult for you to accept certain things. But some
facts we must accept. During that illness all unpleasant feeling between
Walter Somers and his father had been wiped out. In his conversation
with Mr. Waite Mr. Somers mentioned this. He was feeble, but quite clear
as to his wishes. He felt that perhaps an injustice had been done to his
son, and he wished to rectify it. That is why the will was drawn as it
stands, and—as it will stand before any court, Mrs. Somers.”

“Have you examined the signature?”

“I have, at Mr. Waite’s own request. We have even had an expert on it. A
forged signature under the microscope shows halts and jerks; the hand
works slowly, and there are tremors.”

“And this shows none of these?”

“Mr. Somers was not allowed to sit up. It shows the weakness of a sick
man, writing in a constrained position. That’s all.”

She sat there, smoothing her gloves after that habit of hers, and her
face looked drawn in the glare from the wide-open windows. Her anger was
gone, and something disquieting had taken its place.

“Then this secret fund is beyond question?”

“Beyond question.”

She said nothing more until we had got into the car. Then she spoke,
looking ahead of her and with her face a white mask.

“So she is living, after all!”

“Who is living, Katherine?”

“Margaret.”

Just how long she had been brooding over that possibility I do not know,
but I think it explains much that had almost alienated me at the time;
her refusal to accept the will, her frozen attitude even to Judy, the
hours she spent locked away in her room, inaccessible even to her maid.

“I don’t believe it, Katherine.”

“I do,” she said with stiff lips. “It would be like her, wouldn’t it? To
hide away for all these years, and then when she knows Howard is ill and
dying, to let him know. She told Walter, and Walter told him.”

Nothing I could say could shake that conviction. And here again we had
grazed the cheek of truth, touched it and gone on. For Margaret was not
living, as we were to learn at the end.

Certainly one of the most astounding things about our series of
crimes—and perhaps about all baffling crimes—is the narrow margin by
which, again and again, the solution evaded us. Despite the
extraordinary precautions taken by the criminal, on at least a half
dozen occasions safety was a matter of seconds only. One such incident
was the sound outside Florence Gunther’s room, the night Judy and I were
there. Another, for example, was Clara’s failure to identify the figure
in the pantry door. Again, had the intruder on my staircase the night of
Sarah’s murder happened to have crept a few steps lower, the entire
situation would have been changed. That I was resting when Florence came
to see me resulted in her death before she had told her story.

There were others, also.

Had Judy turned that night in the garage she might have seen who it was
who struck at her. And Dick, deciding by the merest chance to retrace
his steps around the wash, confronted that crouching figure and was
violently flung into the gully.

These and a dozen other instances which I was to recall later, had given
me an almost superstitious attitude toward the case. Clearly it was not
meant that we were to know until the deadly roster was complete, the
whole sanguinary business finished. Then, when it was all over,
Katherine with her deadly pertinacity was to step in, and the door was
to play its part.

The next incident was a fair example of the narrow margins to which I
have referred.

I have said little about reporters, but of course life had been made
miserable by them for weeks; masculine and feminine, they had more or
less invaded us. Dick’s injury had resulted in a fresh influx, and so I
had instructed the servants to inspect all callers from the library bay
window before opening the doors.

A day or two after the visit to Godfrey Lowell the bell rang and Joseph
tiptoed upstairs to say that a suspicious looking woman was on the
doorstep. By that I knew he meant probably a reporter, but something
made me ask what she looked like.

“A big woman,” he said. “Rather flashy, madam.”

“Humph,” I said. “Big? All the ladies of the press so far have been
small, Joseph. Small and young.”

The bell rang again, almost fiercely, and suddenly a curious thing
happened to me. I had a vision of Florence Gunther standing there,
ringing the bell and being turned away. It came and went while the bell
was still ringing.

“Let her in, Joseph. I’ll see her.”

He disapproved, I knew. It was in every line of his back. But in the end
he admitted her, and it developed that my caller was Lily Sanderson.

She looked tired, I thought, too tired even to be self-conscious.

“I guess you have enough bother without my adding to it,” she said. “But
I had to come. I had really.”

She sat down and put her hands to her hat.

“I guess I look something dreadful. I’ve been losing a lot of sleep, and
what with being on my feet all day——”

“Would you like some tea?”

“No, thanks. I feel too mussy. I want to get home and get my shoes off.
My feet swell something dreadful these days. Not getting to bed
properly, you know.”

“Can’t you slip them off now? Your shoes?”

But the idea seemed to outrage her sense of the proprieties. She shook
her head.

“I’ll just give you my message and be getting on. It’s about Mrs.
Bassett. She’s sick. She’s got—” She lowered her voice, as always will
women of a certain age when mentioning cancer. “She’s got a cancer, and
it’s too late to operate. She’s living on morphia. Her daughter’s there
now, but I relieve her at night. That is, I sleep on a sofa, and if she
gets bad she calls me.”

But the point of the matter was this: after Mrs. Bassett had had morphia
she would grow talkative, “what with the pain stopping, and anyhow I
guess morphia does loosen the tongue.” And Miss Sanderson would listen.

“It’s really awful,” she said. “Me working all day and trying to sleep,
and her talking on and on. Sometimes she’ll say: ‘You’re not listening.’
And I’ll wake up and tell her I am. But what I’m coming to, she’s talked
a lot about Florence. She’s got her on her mind. And she knows
something, Miss Bell. She knows something about that murder.”

“What makes you think that?”

“She’s as much as said so. The other night she called me in the middle
of the night and told me to get somebody from headquarters; she wanted
to make a statement about something. So I got the telephone book, but I
didn’t know what to look for, and then I heard her calling like a crazy
woman. I went in, and she was running her tongue over her lips—morphia
makes them dry, you know—and looking at me with a queer sly look. ‘I
haven’t anything to tell the police,’ she said. ‘It’s this stuff they
give me. I guess I was dreaming.’ But I didn’t believe her then and I
don’t now. She meant to tell the police something, and then she got
frightened.”

“It might not have been about Florence, at that.”

“Listen!” She leaned forward. “I told you I heard two people in that
room the night Florence was killed, didn’t I? And that one of them was a
woman and she was crying? Well, why wasn’t that Mrs. Bassett?”

She sat back, having made her effect, and gazed at me triumphantly.

“Mind you,” she said. “I’m not saying she had anything to do with the
murder. She’s a decent sort of woman, and she’s had a hard time; roomers
at the house, and going out to give body massage into the bargain. She
knows something, that’s all I say. And I stick to it.”

“Would she talk to the police if they went there?”

“I doubt it. She’s thought it over, and she’s made up her mind. She’s
afraid; afraid of somebody.”

She had, however, no more idea as to this somebody’s identity than I
had. She knew no more of Mrs. Bassett than the average roomer knows of
her landlady. She believed that there was a husband living, but she had
never seen him. The daughter had given up a good position to take care
of her, she understood. She rambled on while I thought. Only one thing
struck me as being significant in all this, and that was that Mrs.
Bassett had given massage.

“What does she look like?” I asked. “I mean, in build? Is she tall?”

“She’s medium height, and stocky. Very muscular. Even now she isn’t as
weak as you’d expect.”

I sat up. Was it possible that Mrs. Bassett was the heavy-set woman who
had given Howard Somers massage at the hotel? And if so, what would that
mean? What did she know? What had she learned in those rooms, during
those mysterious days of the illness, that might be valuable now? That,
it seemed to me, was the important thing, and not Lily Sanderson’s guess
that she had been in Florence’s room the night she was killed.

One could imagine her, her sleeves showing her strong arms as she bent
over the bed, working mechanically. And then, something being said, some
quarrel going on or some name being mentioned which had registered in
her mind. Then, lying in her bed, the impulse to tell what she knew, and
the second impulse, more profound, to be allowed to die in peace.

“Did she ever mention any of her patients?”

“I think not. She isn’t what you would call talkative.”

“I wondered. We know that a woman answering that description gave
massage a few times to Mr. Howard Somers here last year. But I daresay
Doctor Simonds would know.”

That, however, did not interest Miss Sanderson. What she wanted, and
finally brought out, was that I should myself see Mrs. Bassett and talk
to her. That night if possible.

“Her heart’s bad, and she may go any time like _that_.” She snapped her
fingers. “If you could work on her she might talk. Tell her all the
trouble and sorrow that’s going on. She’s kind enough. I could have
yelped myself when I saw that picture of Mr. Blake with the handcuffs.”

Here the feeling that she had committed an indelicacy caused her to get
up suddenly and prepare to go.

“That’s fixed, is it? You’ll come? Say about nine o’clock? I’ll be
watching for you. She’ll have had her hypo at eight, and the daughter’s
going out. I’ve promised to relieve her early. I can smuggle you in.”
But she seemed loath to go. “I don’t know why,” she said, “but I get a
funny feeling in that house at night. She thinks she hears things, and
she lies and listens.”

I let her out myself, and watched her go down the drive to the street.
It occurred to me then that she was frightened, that she had been
frightened all along; that she knew that to meddle in this matter might
be deadly; that the same fear which had turned Mrs. Bassett stubbornly
silent was in her. There was pathos in that. These two women, one worn
with watching, one dying, and no peace for either of them. Shut in those
two upper rooms, awake in the long night, and the sick woman “hearing
things.”

Doctor Simonds did not remember the Bassett woman. He had suggested
massage, and either Sarah or Wallie had found some one. He himself had
never seen her. He had two or three _masseuses_ on his list, but they
were all Danes or Swedes, there was no one named Bassett.




                          CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR


I did not take the car that night. I had no desire to let Robert know of
that visit. But I took Joseph, out of sheer panic, to see me safely down
the hill and into the lighted portion of the park. There he turned back,
and I went on alone.

A week of June had passed. The trees were in full leaf, and the scent of
flowering shrubbery was in the air. I remember thinking that it would
soon be two months since Sarah had been murdered, and that Florence had
been dead for more than a month. And what did we know now, more than we
knew then? Almost nothing. That Sarah had known Florence, that they had
shared the knowledge of the will, and that Sarah had hidden two pages of
a record which were being diligently sought by some one unknown!

Cleared of all extraneous matter, that was our case. We might suspect
that Howard had been murdered, but we did not know it. We might believe
Judy had been attacked, but had the ladder possibly fallen, after all?
Had Joseph tumbled down the stairs? And had Dick surprised some venial
malefactor who had simply pushed him out of the way?

And was the answer of the Grand Jury the correct one? Was it, after all,
as simple as that, that Jim had killed Sarah to get the duplicate will,
trusting to luck—and possibly Katherine—to get hold of the other?

I daresay I walked slowly, for it was after nine o’clock when I rang the
door bell.

Almost at once it was opened and Lily Sanderson slid out on the step,
closing the door behind her.

“Well, wouldn’t you know it?” she said. “The husband’s come to see her!
He’s up there now, and the daughter too, and there’s been all sorts of a
row. She’ll be upset, and it’s bad for her. It might even kill her.”

I saw that she was crying, and I realized that her tears were not for me
and my disappointment; that for a little time she had fed her starved
womanhood on service, and that she had developed an affection for this
unfortunate woman who had become for the time at least her child.

“You need sleep,” I said. “Let the daughter stay tonight, and go to
bed.”

But she shook her head. She had stepped into the vestibule and drawn me
in with her. “Look here,” she said in a low voice, “what do you suppose
the fuss is about? She’s sick, and he knows it. Why is he jawing her? Is
he afraid she’ll tell something?”

“Who is he? What does he look like?”

“I never saw him, and I don’t want to.”

But she caught something in my face—we were in the vestibule, and there
was a little light—and she turned swiftly and went into the house. She
was back again almost immediately, her finger on her lips.

“He’s coming down,” she whispered. “Don’t move.”

She had partially closed the door behind her, and we stood there
waiting, while the man slowly descended to the second floor. Still as it
was on that by-street, his movements were amazingly quiet. Indeed, had I
not been told that some one was descending that staircase, I would not
have believed it. A creak now and then, the indescribable faint sounds
of a moving body, were all I could hear.

Then, part way down the second flight he stopped. Evidently he had seen
the partly opened door, and was looking at it. Lily Sanderson’s face was
curious in that half light. It was as though that descent, harmless
enough until then, had become sinister. She stared at me, her mouth
partly open, and thus we stood for an absurd time, waiting for the man
on the stairs to make the first move.

Suddenly the tension became too much for her. She made an odd little
sound and threw open the door. There was no man on the stairs, nobody in
sight. She looked profoundly shocked, and she gave a sort of hysterical
giggle.

“Can you beat that?” she whispered. “He went back!”

“Back where?”

“He went up to the second floor and down the back stairs. That is, if
he’s gone.” Some rather awful thought evidently came into her mind at
that moment, for she left me and ran up the stairs, her heavy legs and
ridiculous heels moving with incredible rapidity. She went all the way
to the third floor, and I could hear voices there; the daughter’s, I
imagined, and her own. She came down more quietly.

“It just occurred to me,” she said breathlessly, “that—but she’s all
right. The daughter is with her.”

“What in the world did you think?”

But she seemed rather ashamed.

“It was funny, his slipping out like that, wasn’t it?” she asked. “Maybe
Clarissa saw him.”

As it turned out, however, Clarissa had already gone home. Her kitchen
was dark, and I think it took some courage on Lily’s part to go in and
turn on the lights. But it was empty, and she turned her attention to
the door. She looked around at me with a startled face.

“I forgot! He couldn’t get out here. Clarissa takes the key with her.
It’s locked now, and the key’s gone.”

It was then that we both heard a sound from the pantry, and the swinging
door into it opened and closed a few inches. It was an uncanny thing,
and I can still see poor Lily, leaning on the kitchen table and staring
at it, and admire the courage with which she raised her quavering voice.

“Who’s there?”

In the silence which followed we both heard the front door softly close.

Evidently Mrs. Bassett’s husband, or whoever the stealthy visitor might
be, had found himself locked in the kitchen, and when we went there had
taken refuge in the pantry. There were two swinging doors, and the
opening of the one, as we found by experiment, caused the other to move.
As he escaped by the simple expedient of going forward through the
dining room, this had happened.

But as Lily said, now blind to the proprieties and sitting weakly in a
chair with her slippers in her hand, why escape at all?

“I don’t believe it was her husband, Miss Bell,” she said. “Anybody
could come here and say that. That’s why I went upstairs.”

“To see if it was her husband?”

“To see if he had murdered her,” she said, and somehow my blood ran
cold.

I took a taxicab home that night, and I did not feel safe until I was in
my own house once more, with Joseph double barring the door and the
dogs, as usual in my absences, settled on the best library chairs.

I told the Inspector the next day of that experience in the Halkett
Street house, but he pooh-poohed the idea of its having any connection
with the crimes.

“Why make so much of it?” he said. “Most men tiptoe out of a sickroom.
They may raise the devil inside but they tiptoe out. Watch that some
time. And as for his hiding, well, maybe he did and maybe he didn’t. How
do you know he hadn’t been crying? He’d rather be caught without his
clothes than crying.”

He was not so certain, however, after he had seen Mrs. Bassett that
night. He had arranged with Lily Sanderson as I had, and this time the
daughter was out. He stopped by on his way home.

“Not that I got anything,” he said. “But there’s something peculiar
there.”

She had absolutely refused to talk. Asked about her request for the
police some time before, she denied having made it.

“I get queer ideas when I’ve had the dope they give me,” she said, and
lay there quietly, looking at something he could not see.

When he tried to discuss the murder of Florence Gunther she said nothing
whatever. Nor was she much more communicative about her husband.

“My daughter’s a good girl, but the least said of him the better.”

Then she had said she was in pain and had called sharply for Lily, and
he had come away.

“But she knows something,” he told me. “Not necessarily that the husband
has anything to do with it. She knows something. She had a queer look
about her. I’ve seen it before.”

“What sort of look?”

“I saw it once before in the face of a man just before he jumped out of
a tenth story window.”

And so, like everything else which might have helped in the defense,
that too had come to nothing. I believe the Inspector made at least one
other attempt to see her, but either she was frightened, or more likely
she had been warned, for she told him nothing. And before our mystery
was cleared up she was dead.

By the tenth of June Jim’s trial began. Public opinion and the
prosecution had done everything possible to expedite the proceedings,
and the defense was equally anxious. Jim was not bearing the confinement
well. The jail was dark and airless, and the general feeling against him
so strong and so infuriated that the authorities could do nothing to
ameliorate his situation.

There had been leaks of various sorts. It was known that Jim’s clothing
had shown minute blood stains in spite of Amos, and that he had been on
the hillside the night of Sarah’s death at ten o’clock. Two persons, a
man and a woman, had come forward to state that they were coming up the
path that night, and that they had seen a man in light golf clothing,
standing beside the path and wiping something from his hands with a
handkerchief.

The man, named Francis X. Dennis, made his statement unwillingly enough.

“I didn’t want to be mixed up in this,” he told the reporters, “but my
wife thinks we’d better speak up. We’d been taking a walk, and we came
along to the foot of the hill about five minutes to ten.

“My wife’s hearing is better than mine, and she stopped and said there
was somebody scrambling through the bushes overhead. We listened, and it
seemed like somebody was running along the hillside. We didn’t start up
until it got quiet again, and my wife was kind of nervous.

“Well, when we’d got about halfway up there was a man. He was about ten
feet off the path on our right and I saw that he had on a light golf
suit and a cap. He didn’t pay any attention to us. He seemed to be busy
with his hands, wiping them.

“After we’d got up the hill my wife said: ‘He’s cut himself. He’s tying
up his hand.’ I said maybe he’d slipped and fallen when he was running,
and—well, I guess that’s about all.”

It was a body blow for the defense, coming when it did and with a detail
the more convincing because it was unstudied. Both these people believed
that it was Jim they had heard running along the hillside below the
Larimer lot toward the path, and Godfrey Lowell threw up his hands in
despair.

“This case is being tried in the press,” he said. “We’ll have a verdict
before we even get into court!”

But I have thought about Godfrey since, sitting in his office and
talking to the imposing array of counsel who were to help him, and going
home at night to lie awake for hours, studying the darkness for some
weakness to attack, some point to be made:

“And I say to you, gentlemen of the jury——”

What? What could he say? That Jim was a good fellow who gave good
dinners and played excellent bridge? That he was a decent citizen, who
had spent that evening conversing harmlessly with another woman who had
since been murdered? And that he was given to nosebleed, which would
account for the blood on his clothes?

Jim still stubbornly silent, and Godfrey lying there and wondering. Was
Jim innocent, after all?

I believe that until the day before the trial he was uncertain. Then I
was able to give him a little, a very little help. Small as it was it
heartened him, and on it he hung his defense, but even then he was not
sure.

It was an odd conversation I had with the Inspector that second evening
before Jim’s trial. He marched in like a man with a purpose, and I saw
that whatever that purpose might be he had dressed for it. He was always
neat enough, but that night he was resplendent.

“This is a social call,” he said. “I’m not a policeman now; I’ll ask you
to remember that.”

And he added, not without embarrassment, that he felt very friendly
toward all of us; that he had enjoyed his talks with me, and that he
liked Judy. Then he sat still and stared at his well-polished boots.

“In that case,” I suggested, “out of office hours, so to speak, and the
whisky being some my father put away years ago, would you like a
highball?”

Which he would, and did.

Perhaps it warmed him; perhaps he had come for the purpose. The upshot
of it was that he said he did not want any miscarriage of justice the
next few days, and that things were looking pretty black.

“The prosecution’s going to get a conviction. It’s out for one, and
it’ll get it. Mind you, the District Attorney thinks he’s right. I’ve
talked it over with him, and he has God with him, as he sees it. But
there are one or two little points they’re not likely to bring up, and I
thought I’d talk them over with you.”

And then and there, categorically, he outlined the defense for us. As I
wrote it down for Godfrey Lowell at the time, I have it before me now.

(a) Jim was being tried for Sarah’s murder, but the story of Florence
Gunther’s would inevitably enter the case. Why was it that there was no
oil in Jim’s car the morning after Florence’s death, although I found it
later? “Tell Lowell to bring that out. The prosecution won’t.”

(b) Find Amos, and get him on the stand. “He buried that sword-stick.
His prints were thick on it.”

(c) Ask the microscopist who examined Sarah Gittings’ clothing if he
found anything wrapped around a button. “I may lose my job over this,
but he did. He found a longish white hair.”

(d) Ask him—the microscopist—if that hair was living or dead? If it
came from a head or a wig. “I think it came from a wig, myself. Make
them produce that hair in court. They’ve got it.”

(e) Ask the microscopist what he found on that piece of wood from the
Larimer lot. “He found something besides blood and that dead woman’s
hair. He found some fibers from cloth on the end of it. Black cloth, or
grayish black. They’ve got those, too.”

(f) Put a lot of emphasis on that three hours from seven to ten. Where
was she? “I’m not so sure myself that the whole solution doesn’t lie
there.”

And

(g) Why were both those stab wounds the same depth?

He leaned back, like a man well satisfied with himself.

“Now here’s the situation, to my mind,” he explained. “And Lowell’s
welcome to use it if he likes. Here’s a man who has worked himself into
a mood to kill. He’s out to kill. And he’s got a sword in his hand; a
rapier, rather. It’s got a blade a foot and a half long, and it’s as
sharp as a dagger. What does he do? He drives it home with all his
strength, and this man who did this had strength, plenty of it. If your
grandfather ever fought a duel with that weapon, he’d have run his man
through, wouldn’t he? Providing he got the chance, of course!

“But here are two stab wounds, and both of them short. That’s not
accident, that’s necessity. That’s a short knife, to my mind anyhow. He
might have gone short the first time, but not the second. Never the
second.”

I was re-reading my notes.

“What do you mean by the wig?” I asked.

“Well, that hair was peculiar. It had no root, for one thing. A hair
that’s torn out usually has a root; and there was no dust on it, nothing
that ought to be on hair in active service! Nothing but a lot of
brilliantine. Mind you, that’s only a chance. Still, it has its points.
A man old enough to have white hair and wear it long is too old to have
put that body in the sewer.”

“You mean that whoever it was was disguised?”

“I say there’s a possibility of it. You see, men often disguise
themselves to commit crimes. That and to make an escape are practically
the only times any criminal uses disguise at all. In other words a
murderer is seen at or near the scene of the crime, and identified by
certain marks; hair, eyebrows, clothes or what not. But in his own
proper person he has none of those marks.”

“And they won’t bring that out at the trial?”

“Well, why should they?” he said reasonably. “It wouldn’t help Blake
any. How do we know he didn’t wear a wig that night?”

“Then why bring it in?”

He smiled.

“For the effect on the jury,” he said. “Nobody has shown that Jim Blake
wore such a wig, or even owned a wig. As a matter of fact I don’t
believe he did. But get Lowell to work that three hours and the unknown
in a white wig, and dress clothes, and at least he’s got a talking
point.”




                          CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE


I took those notes to Godfrey the next day, and by the eagerness with
which he seized on them I realized his desperation.

“Where on earth did you get all this?”

“Never mind, Godfrey. It’s our case; that’s all.”

And that was the situation the day before Jim’s trial opened; Laura
arriving in the early morning, having left her children for once, and
outraged over the whole situation. But not for a moment taking the
outcome seriously; coming in from the car, smartly dressed and vocative,
followed by that mass of hand luggage which she requires for a
twenty-four hour journey.

“Don’t look at me. I’m a mess, but of course I had to come. Of all the
ridiculous and pointless accusations! How are you, Joseph? How d’you do,
Clara! Charles told me to see that I had an extra bolt on my door! Isn’t
that like him? That cabinet looks well in there.”

Nor did she once consider a possible unfortunate outcome for Jim until
the trial began. Then the dignity of the court, the gravity of the
counsel for both sides, all the panoply of a trial in which a sovereign
state with all its resources is opposed to a single individual in a
prisoner’s box, began to impress her.

Our faces, too, must have told her something of our doubts; Judy pale
and thin, and Katherine as if she had been chiseled out of marble.

“Oh, the poor dears!” said Laura. “Somehow I didn’t realize it had been
like this.”

But it was Jim who struck her dumb; Jim, so carefully dressed, so drawn,
so isolated. She reached out and caught my hand, and for once she was
silent. Silent she remained, through that ghastly impaneling of a jury
which required days, and until the opening speech of the State’s
Attorney. During that speech, however, her color rose and her eyes
flashed.

“How dare they?” she muttered. “How _dare_ they?”

I have no space here for that trial, for its heartbreaks and its
insufferable dragging hours and days. Witnesses came and went. The
audience, those who had won the daily battle for admission, sat and
fanned themselves with hats, handkerchiefs, newspapers. To such few
points as told in Jim’s favor they were cold; they were united against
him, a seething mob of hatred, waiting and furiously hoping for revenge.

Laura said they were like the market women who knitted around the
guillotine while the French aristocracy was being executed, and so I
felt that they were.

In vain Godfrey Lowell fought, cross-examined, almost wept out of his
exhaustion and anxiety; in vain he made the Inspector’s points, from “a”
to “g.” The jury was hot and growing weary. Sarah’s blood-stained
clothing and the sword-cane were on the table. They reasoned from cause
to effect.

He had had the cane, she had threatened his easy-going life, he had been
seen where she was killed, he killed her.

Judy’s eyes were sunk in her head by the end of the third day, but she
remained throughout the trial, from that sonorous opening speech of the
District Attorney, of which I reproduce only a paragraph or two:

“We will show, gentlemen of the jury, that this unfortunate woman, on
the day before she was killed, wrote to this defendant and asked him to
meet her, on urgent business. A reconstruction of a portion of this
letter as shown on her blotter will be produced in due time. And we will
show that she sent this letter. She not only wrote it but she addressed
an envelope, and the imprint of this envelope, left on the cuff of that
uniform of service which she wore, has been examined by experts and
pronounced to be her own handwriting. It has been compared, as the law
requires, with valid examples of her handwriting; samples easy to
obtain, for this good and faithful friend to this family had for years
kept a record of all their illnesses, day by day.

“We will show that on the night of the crime, this defendant varied from
his ordinary procedure; that he dined early and without dressing, which
in this case means that he did not put on a dinner jacket. That is more
important than it may sound. There are certain individuals, gentlemen,
to whom a dinner without a dinner jacket approaches the unthinkable. It
is cataclysmic. And so revolutionary was it in the habit of this
defendant that his servant made a mental note of it.

“Following this early meal, and he ate very little, he went out. He had
put on a light golf suit and a pair of heavy shoes, and this suit and
these shoes will be shown to you later on, stained with blood; the
blood, we fully believe of this dead woman.

                 *        *        *        *        *

“But there was another and even more terrible, more sinister object in
that house that next morning. The sword-stick stood once more in the
hall, where it had stood before. But this sword-stick, or sword-cane,
gentlemen, had become a matter of intense importance to this defendant.

“Either on his return the night before, or during that day, or even
following the discovery of Sarah Gittings’ body, this defendant
proceeded furtively and secretly to wash the sword-cane.

“But he could not clean the interior of the sheath. That remained for
the experts of our department. They have found human blood in that
sheath, and also another object.

“The age of human blood, after a certain period of time, is difficult to
determine. My friends of the defense may urge that this blood may be
from some ancient duel long since forgotten. But of this other object
discovered the age is unquestioned. Adherent to this sheath was a needle
from a pine tree, and this needle was fresh, gentlemen of the jury. It
came from a particular variety of evergreen to be found only on that
slope of the city park down which this unfortunate woman had been
dragged.

“Numbers of similar needles, from similar trees, were found clinging to
her clothing on the recovery of the body. And I may add that in the
opinion of the experts for the state, this blood inside the sheath was
similarly fresh.”

Why go on? Bit by bit he built his case, and bit by bit Jim sagged in
his chair. When he reached the question of motive, and named Florence
Gunther, there was such a stir in the courtroom that it had to be called
to order.

“Now, gentlemen of the jury, it is not our purpose here, directly or
indirectly, to try this defendant for the murder of Florence Gunther;
but here and there this girl’s name will have to enter the record.

“On the day of this murder Florence Gunther took from the safe of her
employers a certain document, sealed in a brown manila envelope and duly
endorsed. This document has disappeared, but its identity has been
established.”

And with the description of the will which followed, the supplying of
the motive, the case was indeed as Godfrey had predicted; over before it
commenced.

He fought on doggedly, but what were such things as hairs and fibers to
a jury which had already reached its verdict? And we had a blow or two
which were unexpected, at that.

One was the proof that Sarah had indeed written the letter to Jim, as
claimed by the state. A photograph had been made of her blotter and
greatly enlarged, and certain words had come out clearly enough. So far
as they could put the words together, allowing for certain
undecipherable places, she had written somewhat as follows:

“Dear Mr. Blake: I must see you as soon as possible on a very urgent
matter. When I tell you that I believe that there is a——”

The first page had ended there, or she had used less pressure, for that
was all. And even in this only certain words were at all clear; “urgent”
and “possible” and “believe,” for example. But the “Dear Mr. Blake” was
beyond dispute.

Katherine, too, had her own particular shock to face. This was the
reconstruction of that charred fragment of a letter from her to Jim,
which had been found in his fireplace.

“Your message alarms——What am I not to say?”

She had no warning. She had not expected to be called, and I am sure she
had not the slightest idea of what was to confront her on the stand.

“Can you identify this?”

“I don’t even know what it is.”

Putting up her lorgnette and staring down at that flat board, and then
lifting her head slightly.

“Do you recognize it now?”

“I think it is something I have written.”

“To the defendant?”

“Yes.”

“Do you remember when you wrote that?”

“No.”

“Or how you sent it? By mail?”

She was under oath, and she would not lie.

“By hand.”

“By whose hand?”

“By my chauffeur. I was sending certain things to my brother by car, and
the letter went with them.”

We know now that that was true, that she had had no idea then that Jim’s
mail was being watched. But on the face of it the admission was fatal,
and when later on she was asked to explain that sentence and refused,
there was little more to be done.

In the eyes of the jury and of the audience that day Katherine had as
much as admitted that she knew something about the crime which she was
“not to say.” And the next question, ruled not competent by the court,
was not only designed to show that, but had a sinister purpose not lost
on the jury or the crowd.

“Did you see your brother the night he went to New York?”

“What night was that?”

“The night of your husband’s death.”

“I did not,” said Katherine haughtily. “He was not in New York that
night.”

But the effect had been made. The introduction of Charles Parrott was
likewise fought, but on the District Attorney’s statement that he was
important to their case he was put on the stand, and he made his
semi-identification.

“He’s the same height and the same build,” he said, “but he was pretty
well covered. It looks like him, but that’s as far as I go.”

The purpose of the prosecution was then revealed. Judy was unwillingly
obliged to say that the telephone call had been apparently from Jim, and
Howard’s checkbook was introduced.

It was shown that on the day, or night, of his death he had drawn a
check to cash for a thousand dollars. The book was found on his desk in
the morning, with the stub so marked. This check had not been presented,
but evidence was introduced to show that two days before Jim had called
up a local steamship agency and inquired about sailings.

And underlying all this, brought out again and again, was the sinister
reference that when Jim had left the apartment in New York that night,
or just before he left, Howard was dead.

Judy made a fine witness, and she got over more than the prosecution
allowed to enter the record; she deliberately talked until they stopped
her, and I think the jury found her a bright spot in a long day.

“Why hasn’t Mr. Waite been murdered?” she asked once, out of a clear
sky. “Why wasn’t he the first to go?”

And again, relative to the finding of the cipher, she brought a laugh.

“Why did you search that room?”

“I thought the police needed a little help.” And after the laugh, and
before she could be brought to order: “Why on earth would Sarah hide
whatever she did hide, if she was going to tell Uncle Jim about it? She
trusted him. She wasn’t hiding it from _him_. Find who she was afraid of
and——”

They stopped her then, and under pretense of getting her handkerchief I
saw her looking at a card in her bag. Evidently she had made some notes
on it.

When they took her back to the night of Sarah’s death, and the intruder
in the house, she was ready for them.

“You didn’t see him?”

“No, nor since. He’s been breaking in ever since, while Uncle Jim has
been locked up. He didn’t find what he wanted on Sarah, so he——”

She was making a valiant effort, but I heard none of her testimony after
Godfrey Lowell had read aloud the cipher itself. Laura suddenly caught
my arm.

“For God’s sake, Elizabeth!” she whispered. “Didn’t Sarah tell you about
the cabinet?”

“What about it?”

“Let’s get out of here. We’ve got to get home.”

It took us some time, however, to escape from that crowded courtroom.
The very doorways and the halls outside them were filled, and when we
finally reached the street, Robert had left his car and joined the
morbid throng inside the building. Laura was exasperated and almost
tearful, and I was not much better.

It was Wallie who finally found him for us, and who went with us to the
house.

I had my key, for all the servants were at the courthouse, and at first
glance everything appeared to be as it should be.

On the way Laura made her explanation.

“I meant to write you,” she said, “but I had some buying for Sarah to
do, and so I wrote her. She was to tell you. Why didn’t you tell me she
had hidden something? It’s in the cabinet, of course.”

It must have been forty minutes from the reading of the cipher to the
time we turned into the drive. Save for a natural urgency to get into
the house and find the key to the mystery, I think none of us except
Wallie realized the necessity for any haste. And he had his own reasons
for not stressing that.

He said very little during the drive. I remember now that he was very
white, and that he jerked his shoulder and head even more than usual.
But when I had unlocked the front door and opened it everything seemed
quiet and in order. The dogs came to meet us, Isabel with corpulent
dignity, Jock effusively. The servants were all at the courthouse, and
the house was very still.

Laura turned at once to the drawing room on the left, and as I had
restored the key to the cabinet some time before, she unlocked the
center door without difficulty.

The cabinet is a fine example of Louis Fourteenth, of satinwood and
kingswood. It is really a small secretary; that is, a shelf draws out
and forms a writing desk, and above are three doors. The two outer doors
are of glass, and behind this glass are my mother’s old Chelsea figures.
The center door, however, is solid, and on this is fastened a very
handsome oval piece of ormolu.

It was the center door which Laura opened, and I then noticed for the
first time that this ormolu was fastened to the walnut lining of the
door inside by some dozen very small bronze rosettes, ostensibly
covering the heads of the screws. There was one in the center also, and
thus they formed what might be interpreted as a clock dial.

“Five o’clock right, seven o’clock left, press on six,” said Laura, and
did so. “Give me your knife, Wallie.”

But Wallie’s knife had a broken point. I remember that now, although it
meant nothing to me at the time; I remember that, and that his hands
were shaking when he tried to open it. In the end I had to get my own
penknife from my desk, and Laura inserted the blade along the metal
binding of the door.

It sprang open, revealing between the inner lining and the front of the
door a flat space, the size of the door in area but hardly more than
half inch in depth.

But that space was empty.

We stared at each other. My disappointment was more than I could bear,
and Laura was almost in tears. What Wallie felt I can only surmise. He
bent over and examined it, and I saw then that there the lining was
badly scratched. Laura saw it too.

“Those weren’t there when you got it, were they?”

“I don’t think so.”

Wallie spoke then, for the first time.

“Why should anything be there?” he said. “Somebody was quicker than we
were, that’s all.”

“You mean that this has been done recently.”

“Since those directions were read out in court,” he replied grimly.
“You’ll find a window broken somewhere, or a door left unlocked.”

He was right. With all of us out of the house there had been no one to
put in place the chain which now supplemented the lock of the kitchen
door. The key of that door lay on the floor, as though it had been
pushed out from outside and a duplicate or skeleton key had been used.
And the door now stood open.

It was that night that Wallie disappeared.

I was less surprised than I should have been, perhaps, when he was not
in the courtroom the next morning. On the evening before, at seven
o’clock, he had telephoned Judy and told her not to worry.

“I’m going on the stand tomorrow,” he said, “and everything will be all
right, Judy.”

“What do you mean, all right? If everything isn’t as wrong as it can be,
I don’t know what it is.”

But he said that he was going to testify, and that he had plenty to say.
That she was to be ready for a shock, but not to think badly of him. He
had got himself into this mess, and he would “take his medicine.”

“Go to bed and get a decent sleep,” he said. “Let me do the staying
awake. And don’t worry. Jim Blake isn’t going to the chair.”

She said later that he was not drunk, she was certain, but that his
voice sounded queer.

“I’ve made up my mind,” he finished, “and I feel better for it. It’s a
clean slate and to hell with what happens, for me.”

But he did not appear.

I was bitterly disappointed, and Judy looked puzzled and anxious.

“He lost his nerve,” she said. “He’ll never tell now, whatever it is
that he knows.”

But the trial went on, although the papers commented unpleasantly on his
absence, and Godfrey Lowell was upset. Still, on the surface at least,
Wallie’s testimony could neither damn Jim nor save him. Whatever the
true story of that pencil in the shaft, the fact remained that Wallie
was in my house at ten o’clock, and Jim was in the park.

Things went badly for Jim that day. Amos had not been located, but there
was his damaging testimony before the Grand Jury; and now read into the
record, over protest, that the cane had been in the hall until Sarah’s
body was found and then disappeared; and that further and damning fact
that he had found a bloody handkerchief of Jim’s the morning after
Sarah’s murder and placed it with the soiled clothes; that on listing
the laundry the following Monday he had found this handkerchief, but
that in the interval it had been washed clean and dried.

The accumulated mass of testimony was overwhelming. Nothing could shake
the opinion of the experts that Sarah’s letter to Jim was in her own
hand, or that the drops of blood here and there on his clothing and
inside the sword-stick were human blood.

“How do you know they are human blood?”

“By the shape and size of the corpuscles. Also by their numbers and
groupings.”

Indeed, so badly did things go that on the day following Godfrey Lowell
at last put Jim himself on the stand. Jim had asked to testify and so he
did, although how he thought it would help him nobody can say.




                           CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX


I have before me now that statement of Jim’s. Given much of it in
question and answer, and broken by cross-examination and objections here
and there, it takes many pages of the stenographic report.

As I have also, however, that document which Jim himself prepared later
as the basis of an appeal, I shall use that instead.

I give it word for word.

“I had nothing whatever to do with the death of Sarah Gittings, or of
Florence Gunther. I am willing to swear that before God. If I have kept
back part of what little I know, it has been partly because I saw that
things looked pretty hopeless for me, and partly because of my sister,
who has been and is in deep trouble.

“I did not see Sarah Gittings on the night of the eighteenth of April. I
had expected to see her. She had made two previous attempts to get in
touch with me, both of which had failed. But on that day, a Monday, I
received a telephone message from her, in which she mentioned a letter
she had sent me. She seemed disturbed when I said that I had not
received such a letter.

“I examined my desk, but there was no such letter. Then she asked me to
meet her that night on a matter of vital importance.

“I agreed to do this, and I started rather early, intending to walk to
the address she had given, which was at 1737 Halkett Street. I was to
ask for a Miss Gunther. I wrote down the address, but on the way I found
that I had left it in my other clothing, so I stopped at a drugstore and
telephoned to the Bell house, hoping to catch Sarah before she started.

“She had gone, but I remembered that the address was in the seventeen
hundred block, and rather than go back I decided to make inquiries in
that block.

“I walked across the park and out. I walk rather slowly, and it was
fully eight when I reached the block, and possibly eight-fifteen when I
had located the house. Miss Gunther was waiting on the steps, and she
took me into the house. I had never seen her before. She seemed very
nervous, and had very little to say. When I asked her why I had been
sent for, she said that Miss Gittings would tell me.

“We sat there until perhaps twenty minutes to ten. I asked her
repeatedly to give me an idea of what it was all about, but she would
not. It was not her affair, she said. But she asked me to keep my visit
a secret. She made me promise it, as a matter of fact. She said she
‘didn’t want to be mixed up’ in anything. And I did so promise.

“She seemed unduly uneasy about Sarah Gittings. I could not understand
it, and as time went on she was more and more uneasy. She said she was
sure something terrible had happened, and at last she began to cry. I
tried to reassure her, but she said I didn’t understand, and at
nine-forty her condition was such that I advised her to go to bed, and
myself started for home.

“In my statement to the District Attorney I said that I had reached the
path to the Larimer lot at nine-thirty. This was not true. I saw that I
was under suspicion, and so I changed the time. I was on the path, or
beside it, at or about ten o’clock.

“I took the same route on my return, but when about halfway up the hill
toward the Larimer lot I sat down to rest. I left the path and moved
some feet to the right; that is, in the direction of the Bell house. I
lighted a cigar there and rested. I may have been there five minutes,
when I heard some one moving on the hillside to my left, and some
distance away.

“At first I thought it was a dog. I had heard dogs barking a few minutes
before. I had thrown away my cigar, and I believe that against the
hillside where I sat I was practically invisible to any one at that
distance. But I was not certain that it was a dog, and as that part of
the park has been the scene of several hold-ups, I pressed the spring
which released the knife in the cane, and then waited.

“There were two people in the park below. I could hear them talking, and
it occurred to me that somebody on my left was hiding there, possibly
with the idea of attacking and robbing them. But this was not the case,
and I believe now that this man on my left was the one who killed Sarah
Gittings, and that he was dragging her body down the hillside for later
disposal.

“With the two people, Mr. and Mrs. Dennis as I now know, at the foot of
the hill, and myself more or less hidden above, something alarmed this
man. Possibly a park policeman. I believe that this end of the park had
been watched at night for some time.

“He ran toward me. I could hear him coming, and he was breathing very
hard. I had the general impression of a tall man, in evening dress or
dinner clothes, and wearing a soft cap drawn down over his face. That
was my impression of him. I may be wrong.

“But I swear that this man was there, that he ran toward me, and that he
almost ran over me. So close was he that in passing he struck my stick
with his foot and knocked it to a considerable distance. He ran past me
and disappeared along the hillside beyond, taking a slanting direction
down into the park.

“When I had recovered I felt around for my stick, and unfortunately it
was the blade which I found. I cut my hand, and I bear a small scar from
that cut to this day.

“I have not invented this. The blood on my clothing and on my
handkerchief that night was my own blood. Mrs. Dennis saw me tying up my
hand. I went home and went to bed.

“The next morning I was not well. My servant, Amos, brought me some
coffee, and laid out my fresh clothing. He picked up the handkerchief I
had used the night before, and asked me if I had hurt myself. I told him
I had cut my hand but that it was nothing of any importance.

“I never thought of Sarah Gittings in connection with all this until I
learned that day that she was missing.

“I began to worry then. I had had an appointment to meet her, and I was
uneasy. I called up Florence Gunther at her office, but she was not
there, and I had no knowledge of the house where she lived save the
street number. That is, I could not call her on the telephone.

“But in view of what had happened on the hillside the night before, I
felt anxious. Some time around noon of that day I went back to the
Larimer lot and walked over it, I also examined the hillside. But I
found nothing suspicious.

“I went to the Bell house that afternoon, but Sarah was still missing,
and in addition the house had been entered the night before and Sarah’s
room had been searched. In leaving the Bell house I again went back to
the hillside. I located the spot where I had rested, and went to the
left of it along the hill for a considerable distance. I found nothing
suspicious and no trace of Sarah Gittings.

“The next day I had a desperate letter from Florence Gunther. She had
seen in the papers that Sarah was still missing, and she was certain
that she had been killed. She begged me not to bring her name into it;
that it meant the loss of her position, and maybe physical danger also.
Also she asked me to destroy the letter, which I did. I should have
acted anyhow; as it turned out, my silence did not save her.

“But in that interval several things had happened. While I was debating
what to do Sarah’s body had been found, and she had been stabbed. Not
only that, but I had been on the spot, or close to it, at the very time
the reports said she had been killed.

“Walter Somers and I made the identification that day together, and
Walter drove me home. I let myself into the house through the garden,
and I found Amos in the front hall with the sword-stick in his hands. He
was trying to get the blade back when I found him.

“I knew then that he suspected me. Later on I sent him out and examined
the stick. There was a little dried blood on the blade, and some bits of
grass and earth. That frightened me. I took it to the lavatory
downstairs and washed it, and then I hid it. I put it in my liquor
closet in the lower hall, and locked it there.

“But things grew worse. Mary Martin had produced the uniform, and it was
evident that Sarah Gittings had written to me, as she had claimed. I was
frantic, and that night I made an attempt to see Florence Gunther. She
was not at home, but I found her walking on the street, near an Italian
fruit stand. But I was horrified to see her go white when she saw me.

“She refused to speak to me, and when I insisted she said that I had
killed Sarah; that she knew it and knew why, and that if I didn’t leave
her she would call an officer. On the way home I worked that out. I
remembered that on the night when I saw her, while we waited for Sarah,
I had idly shown her the mechanism of the sword-stick. I am not
surprised that she believed that I had killed Sarah Gittings. It is easy
to see why, now. She believed that Sarah Gittings had come to me with
that copy of a will which disinherited me, and that to get possession of
it I had killed her.

“I made no more overtures. I was afraid I would drive her to the police.

“I went home that night a sick man, and took to my bed. Some time during
that week, however, I crawled downstairs. It seemed to me that if she
told the police and they found the stick hidden, it would damn me. I
decided to put it back in the hall, where it had stood before.

“I unlocked the door, but the stick had disappeared. I do not yet know
how it disappeared, or why it was found in the cellar. My personal
belief is that my servant Amos was alarmed at the situation in which I
found myself, and that he buried it himself.

“It is also my belief that Amos has been either killed or bribed to
leave the city, for fear he may make this confession and thus help to
clear me.

“In a similar manner, I believe that a ring of oil was planted in my
car, so that I might be suspected of having killed Florence Gunther. The
police know that this ring was not in the car the day after her murder.

“During this trial, much has been made of the fact that by a new will
made by my brother-in-law, Howard Somers, I lost a bequest originally
devised to me. In reply to that I say most solemnly that I never knew
that Howard Somers had made a new will until Mr. Alexander Davis told me
in New York, following Mr. Somers’ death. Even had I known of it, the
murder of these two unfortunate women could certainly not benefit me.
The will itself was safe among Mr. Somers’ papers in a New York bank
vault and Mr. Waite could testify to its existence and its authenticity.

“I know nothing whatever of Florence Gunther’s death. When I found that
she suspected me of Sarah Gittings’ murder I made no further attempt to
see her, and I solemnly swear that I never did see her. Nor did I make
any visit to Howard Somers on the night of his death. Whoever saw him
that night deliberately used my name to gain access to him. Nor did I
receive a check from him for one thousand dollars.

“As to leaving the country, I had such a thought at one time. My
position was unbearable, and I was helpless. I did nothing further about
the matter, nor have I attempted to escape.

“I have not invented this story since my arrest, or preceding it. I have
told the absolute truth, under oath. I have never killed any human
being. I am innocent of this charge. If I suffer for it I suffer for
another man’s crime.”

Much of this was in the story he told on the stand. I believe that
outside of ourselves hardly a soul in that crowded courtroom believed
it. And against it was that mass of accumulated testimony, including our
own unwilling appearances on the stand.

It should have helped him that on that very day the body of poor Amos
was found floating down the river, but it did not. He had been drowned,
poor wretch, and although we have our own suspicions we do not know to
this day that he was murdered.

But I think I can reconstruct that scene; Amos confiding and amiable,
flattered at being consulted. On a bridge, maybe, or on the river bank
somewhere; and then a sudden thrust of a muscular arm, and the muddy
swirling water closing over his head.

Jim was found guilty after only three hours’ deliberation by the jury.
Guilty of murder in the first degree.




                          CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN


Jim was sentenced to the chair on the twenty-fifth of June. One and all
the newspapers were gratified by the verdict, and not a few kind words
were said of the acumen of the police and the fairness of the trial.

Godfrey Lowell at once moved for an appeal, but he warned us that
lacking fresh developments there was little to be hoped from a new
trial, if it was granted.

We were stunned. Katherine took to her bed, not as a refuge but out of
sheer necessity, and Doctor Simonds saw her daily. Judy went about, a
thin and pale little ghost of herself, thinking eternally of the
mystery, as convinced as ever of Jim’s innocence.

“He’s protecting somebody,” she said. “He saw that man on the hillside.
He was twenty feet from the path, and that precious Dennis pair saw him
well enough to know he had on a golf suit and was wiping his hands. And
this man he tells about; he almost ran over him. Uncle Jim saw him, and
he knows who it was. He knows and he won’t tell. And Wallie knows.
Wallie ran away so he wouldn’t have to tell.”

She looked as though she had not slept for days, and I myself took a
sleeping tablet every night and then lay awake until morning. I was
alone once more, for Laura had had to go back to her children. She had
wept noisily on the way to the train, and had promised to come back as
soon as possible.

Of our small family group then only Katherine, Judy and I remained, for
Wallie was still missing. That defection of his had angered me almost
beyond words. He had known something which might have saved Jim, and he
had gone away. Somewhere he was hiding until everything was over.

And then, on the twenty-eighth of June, the steward called up from
Wallie’s club. Wallie had not been seen since the night of Wednesday,
the twenty-second, and this was on the following Tuesday.

“We would like to know where he can be found,” he said. “We have a
number of messages for him, and one that seems to be urgent.”

“Urgent?”

“Yes. A lady has been telephoning every day. Today she made me go up and
look at his room. She seems to think there’s something queer about his
absence. She asked me to call you and tell you.”

“Queer?” I said, with that now familiar tightening around my chest.
“What did she think? Did she give any name?”

“No. A young woman, I imagine. I don’t want to alarm you, but she seemed
very nervous. As a matter of fact, she said something about notifying
the police.”

“She gave no reason for that?”

“No, but I’ve just been up to his room. It doesn’t look to me as though
he had meant to be gone for any length of time. His clothes are all
there. And his car’s missing. Still, I don’t think you need to be
particularly alarmed; he was erratic at times, as you probably know. If
this girl hadn’t seemed so excited——”

“His car is gone?”

“It’s out of the garage. Yes. Has been since last Wednesday night.”

It was Tuesday then, and he had been gone for six days. Of course that
might merely bear out Judy’s theory that he had simply “beat it,” as she
put it, but I myself was not so certain. It was hardly conceivable that
he had taken himself off for an indefinite stay without extra clothing,
or even a toothbrush.

The thing worried me. Who was it who had telephoned? Was it Mary Martin,
and if so why had she suggested the police? My entire experience with
Mary convinced me that she regarded the police with fear, if not with
horror. Yet who else? With all his faults Wallie had apparently steered
clear of the type of underworld woman who might naturally think of the
police.

In the end I called the club again and got the steward.

“This young woman who telephoned, Mr. Ellis,—did she give any name?”

“No. She called from a pay station. I thought she was crying, as a
matter of fact, but she hung up before I could find out anything.”

“Why do you say she was young?”

“Well, her voice was young, if you know what I mean.”

I was sure then that it was Mary, and the fact that she had been crying
convinced me that something was terribly wrong. I left the telephone and
went into the library and there I had as bad an attack of palpitation of
the heart as I have ever had in my life.

Joseph found me there and hurried for some bicarbonate, and when I felt
a little better I told him the story. It upset him greatly. The hand
holding the glass shook until the spoon clattered, and he had to steady
himself by a chair.

“The police, madam? Then this young person thinks he has met with real
trouble?”

“She was crying, Joseph.”

In the end I called up Dick Carter, and that evening he and Joseph went
to Wallie’s room at the club. They examined everything there, but
without result, and the story they brought back was ominous, to say the
least.

On that previous Wednesday night Wallie had eaten no dinner. Instead he
had gone into the writing room and there had written for a long time,
until eight or after. The boy on duty there “thought he was writing a
book.” When he finished he had asked for a long manila envelope, put
into it what he had written, taken his hat and a light overcoat from the
man in the hall and gone out.

He stood on the outside steps for a moment, and then he came back. He
seemed nervous and irritable, and he went into the telephone booth and
talked to some one for a considerable time. Then he started out again,
and so far as was known he had never come back.

Dick and Joseph examined his room carefully. Joseph, who occasionally
went there to go over his clothing and to put things in order for him,
said that he found nothing missing.

“But you must remember, madam,” he said, “that Mr. Walter has been under
a great strain lately, and it is not unusual for him to start out on an
evening ride in his car and then to keep on. I have known him to do that
a number of times.”

“For six days, Joseph? And when he was to testify at a murder trial the
next day? That’s ridiculous.”

“That is probably the reason, madam.”

“Nonsense, Joseph! Nobody believes that Mr. Walter had anything to do
with it.”

From the club they went to the garage. The night man remembered clearly
his coming there, and that he must have meant to return, for he had
ordered the car washed that night.

“I’ll be in about eleven,” he had said. “I want it properly washed, too.
The last time it looked worse than before you started.”

He had seemed to be in a bad humor. It was about a quarter after eight
when he reached there, and he ordered the car filled with gas and oil.
He said he was going into the country, and he stood by watching while
this was done. He seemed to “be in a hurry to be off.”

But after he was in the car something happened of which the mere telling
made my hands cold and sent despair into my very soul.

To quote the man at the garage:

“He had an overcoat—it’s still here—and at the last moment he threw it
out to me. It was a warm night. Then he asked for it again and he took a
revolver out of it. He tried to slip it out so I wouldn’t see it. But I
saw it all right. He put it in the pocket of the car.”

To me that night that revolver meant only one thing. Wallie had killed
himself. Somewhere he had stopped his car on a lonely road and ended a
life which had ceased to be endurable.

But why? What did he know? What had he done? Was it possible after all
that those three alibis of his were wrong? Had he slipped out of my
house that night of the eighteenth of April and killed poor Sarah? I
went over that night once more, and I was certain that he had not.

Late as it was by that time, almost midnight, I called up Inspector
Harrison. I had evidently wakened him from a sound sleep, but he said he
would come as soon as he could, and while I sat there waiting my mind
fairly seethed.

If Wallie was innocent, then what did he know that he would rather die
than tell, and for which he would let Jim suffer? And once more I harked
back to Judy and that strange suspicion of hers about her father. Were
we all wrong, after all? Was Howard being blackmailed, and that will
with its ambiguous clause his final price for silence? Was Katherine
right and was Margaret living? And were Sarah and Florence Howard’s
desperate last attempt to keep that secret under cover?

Wallie and Jim both silent, the one ready to go to the chair if
necessary before he would speak, and the other perhaps dead by his own
hand; what did that look like?

And when the Inspector came I told him all that was in my mind, my fears
for Wallie, my suspicions about Howard. He listened attentively, biting
hard on the end of a toothpick and silent for some time after I had
finished.

“It’s ingenious,” he said at last. “It’s even possible. Funny thing Miss
Judy would think of that, isn’t it, and the rest of us would miss it?
Sure he might have recognized this fellow if he was there; especially if
he knew him. There’s more to recognition than features. There’s the
outline and the clothes and the way a person moves. And here’s a thing
that struck me at the trial. If he was inventing that man, why put him
in evening clothes? It was plausible enough up to that minute. Then the
jury just sat back and yawned. Now, Mr. Somers had white hair, I think,
and he wore it fairly long?”

“Yes.”

“Queer case, isn’t it?” he said. “Unless Blake invented the evening coat
to fit the black fibers on that log. Well, let’s get to this other
matter.”

When he left it was to go to the garage and secure a description of
Wallie’s car, and I believe it was almost morning before he got to his
bed again. He had started the entire machinery of the city and county on
the search by that time, and the only reason he did not extend that
search over the country was because he felt certain, as he confessed
later, that Wallie was dead by his own hand, and not too far away.

That was on Tuesday, and on Wednesday morning the papers were filled
with his disappearance. “Young Millionaire Missing.” “Police Hunting
Walter Somers.”

And on Thursday afternoon, the last day of June, we had some news.

Wallie’s car had been found on the Warrenville road, not far from the
end of the street car line, and about two miles nearer the city than the
Hawkins farm. Some boy scouts, out for a hike, had selected for lunch a
gully with a small stream flowing through it, and a half dozen had
wandered up this ravine for a half mile or so.

The car had been driven over the hill, and was upside down and badly
demolished. A local deputy constable had notified the police and kept
the boys away. They had been anxious to turn it over.

When Inspector Harrison arrived on the scene with Simmons and four or
five others, the ground had not been disturbed. They found no
footprints, however, save the smaller and unmistakable ones of the boys,
and they were forced to the conclusion either that the car had been
empty when it started on its wild journey, or that Wallie had been
thrown out somewhere on the hill.

But they found no Wallie, and nothing further to help them.

The Inspector, reporting the matter, had his own opinion of it.

“He deliberately got rid of that car,” he said. “It might have lain
there for a year, if those youngsters hadn’t happened on it.”

There was no sign of the revolver, and although inside it—it was a
roadster, with one seat and a rumble—there were certain scratches, and
a leather seat cushion torn in one place, these were probably the result
of the terrific impact after it had shot down the hill.

There was however an unexpected result to the discovery and description
of the car in the press. A woman named Wiggins came forward to say that
she had seen such a car as she was leaving the street car at the end of
the line at something before nine on the evening of Wednesday, June the
twenty-second. She fixed the date absolutely, as she had gone to town to
see her daughter off on a train, also she remembered the car distinctly,
because it had almost run over her.

And she stated positively that there had been two men in it at the time.

The Inspector was very sober when he told me that.

“It looks now,” he said, “as though somebody knew that Walter Somers
meant to go on the stand that next day and tell all he knew. And that he
was—prevented.”

“Murdered is what you mean, isn’t it?”

He cleared his throat.

“It’s possible. It’s very possible. And I suppose Walter could swim and
Amos couldn’t!”

Which was what he left me with, to make of it what I might.

Those few days had told terribly on Joseph. The maids reported that he
walked the floor at night until they were almost crazy, and for the
first time in my service he was forgetful and absent. I was startled one
day to have him pour ice water into my soup, and his hands were so
uncertain that he broke a piece of my mother’s Lowestoft china, a thing
he had not done in all his years of dusting and washing it. On the plea
that he knew Wallie’s habits I loaned him my car, and he took his
afternoons and joined the search. That he went to the club I know, but I
have no other knowledge of his movements save one.

Dick had taken Judy out to the road above the gully, and they were
surprised to find my car there. When they got to the edge they saw
Joseph below; he was sitting on a rock, his head on his breast, and when
they called to him he jumped and then came toiling up the slope.

“What on earth are you doing?” Judy demanded.

He looked down sheepishly at his muddy clothes.

“I was looking for the revolver. Mr. Walter never killed himself, Miss.”

“Joseph,” said Judy impulsively, “why don’t you tell what you know? You
know something.”

“What little I know is Mr. Walter’s secret, Miss.” And that was all he
would say.




                          CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT


That night Joseph was shot. Not killed, but painfully injured. The
bullet struck his collar bone and broke it, near the shoulder. But fired
from only five or six feet the impact was terrific, and at first I
thought that he was dead.

The two children had come in about eight-thirty, and Judy was very low.
The appeal was still pending, and unless we secured a new trial Jim
would go to the chair early in September. There was strong pressure
being brought against a re-trial.

“James Blake has had every opportunity to prove his innocence, and has
failed. A jury of thoughtful men and women found him guilty and
sentenced him to death as the penalty of at least one crime. There is no
question but that an acquittal would have found him at once accused of
at least one other murder, and possibly two.

“There is however more at issue than this. In the past the murderer with
wealth at his command has found it possible to evade punishment for
almost indefinite periods, with the result that the sacredness of human
life——”

It is not surprising then that our group of three was silent that night.

Judy I remember had gone back to the night of Sarah’s death, as though
she was desperately attempting to prove something to herself.

“Why wasn’t it Wallie after all?” she said. “He was in dinner clothes
that night. Suppose he broke into the house here that night? Why hadn’t
he stunned Sarah with that piece of wood, and then come here to get
whatever it was, the records or the will? She may have lain unconscious
for those three hours. Then later on he could have gone back to her.”

Well, that too was possible, although Dick thought the question of time
entered into it.

“He’d have had to work pretty fast,” he said. “It takes time to get old
putty out of a window. When I was a housebreaker——”

“He didn’t finish. He broke the pane.”

I recall that they wrangled about it, and that finally they decided to
go out and experiment a bit. Dick’s idea I think was to get Judy’s mind
away from Jim’s tragic situation, and as I needed the same thing myself
rather badly, I trailed along. It was a steaming July night, for it had
rained during the day. Somewhere in the grounds next door the
ex-bootlegger’s children were exploding a few premature firecrackers,
and on the street a steady procession of cars was passing, the riders
not so much seeking a breeze as producing one.

We went out by the pantry and kitchen. Joseph was reading the paper in
the pantry, and I remember that as we passed through the pantry Judy
asked him the time.

“Ten o’clock, Miss.”

“Aren’t you hot in here, Joseph?” I asked. All the windows were down and
the shades drawn.

“It’s safer like this, madam.”

I remember too that when we went outside, Dick carrying a flashlight,
the dogs went with us; and that Jock saw a rabbit or something of the
sort in the shrubbery by the garage and made a dash for it. I whistled
him back, and he came reluctantly.

We made our way slowly about, Dick turning the flash alternately on the
trees, one or two of which grow close to the house, and onto windows and
doors. At last we reached the back drawing room door and Dick turned the
light full on it.

“Now for the knife,” he said. “Durn you, I’ll learn you, Miss Judy.”

“Knife? What knife?”

“I gave you a pocket knife, oh love of my life. What the hell did you do
with it? I put it on the desk for you.”

Judy maintained that he had done nothing of the sort, and after a
momentary squabble Dick went back by the kitchen to get it. As I have
said somewhere, it is exactly fifty feet around the corner from this
door to the kitchen porch, and as he was running he made it very
quickly. It could not have been more than three minutes from the time he
left us until he rejoined us.

Jock, I recall, was restless, and Judy was obliged to hold him. She was
slightly querulous. In his excitement Dick had carried the flashlight
with him, and she grumbled.

“He might have left us the light, anyhow. I feel creepy.”

And indeed she did, for when Dick unexpectedly turned the corner, having
left the house by the front door and emerging from behind us, she jumped
and screamed.

As I sit here, recalling that night, I am again obsessed with that
peculiar fatality which seemed to attend all our actions daring those
months of terror. Here again was an instance of it. Dick goes into the
house by the kitchen door and departs by the front door, leaving both
wide open, and as a result we have not only another crime, but no clue
whatever to the identity of its perpetrator. And in that night’s tragedy
lay the whole story. A matter of deadly reasoning; deadly inevitable,
and as coldly and recklessly carried out.

Dick came back, as I say, and began working with the knife on the hard
putty around one of the panes.

“It’s hard,” he said. “Look at this. Like cement. No, lady love, Wallie
hadn’t time to meet Sarah and knock her senseless, get here, dig out as
much of this as he did dig, and then be seen on the stairs apparently on
his way out, when he was seen. All those little things took time.”

They wrangled about it, Judy sticking to her point. Wallie had taken the
pencil up the ladder with him, because he had dropped something of his
own down the shaft. Later on having to dispose of the body, he used the
same ladder to reach the top of the sewer. That was why she had wanted
to look at it. There was red clay around the sewer.

But we were not there more than fifteen minutes in all, perhaps less.
And next door the firecrackers were popping, and the cars on the street
were backfiring after coasting down the hill. What was one report more
or less to us, as we stood there? When we started back toward the
kitchen Judy and Dick lagged behind me, like the lovers they were, and
as I was leading Jock by the collar, it so happened that I was still in
this stooped position when I reached the pantry door.

Joseph was still there, in his chair. But he did not rise when I
entered, and I released the dog and straightened up, rather surprised. I
saw then that a thin stream of blood was slowly spreading over his shirt
front, and as I stared at him his body relaxed and he slid out of the
chair and onto the floor.

His eyes were open, and he seemed to be looking at me. It was as though
we gazed at each other, Joseph and I, and as though he said: “You see
what has happened to me. It is incredible, but here I am.”

He was not conscious. Just when that look of shocked surprise left him I
do not know. One moment it was there, the next it was as though a hand
had been passed over his face and left it smooth. I dropped down on my
knees beside him, stricken with grief. I caught his hand, which had
served me for so many years. Strange, in all that time, how seldom I had
touched his hand.

I felt a deep remorse, an overwhelming pity. There, under the light,
still shone beneath his thin iron-gray hair the scar from that
mysterious attack which might have killed him. I put my hand up and
touched it, and with that I remember that I began to cry.

I realize now that some time in those shocked first seconds I heard the
front door slam, but it no more than registered on my dazed brain. On
the kitchen porch Dick and Judy were still talking, and the red spot on
Joseph’s shirt front spread a little, but very little.

I got up and went into the kitchen.

“Judy,” I said, “will you go around by the front door? Joseph is—not
well.”

“Not well? You don’t mean that he’s been drinking?”

“No. Please do what I tell you.”

I left them and went back to the pantry. There was no indication there
of any visitor. The evening paper lay on the table, and Joseph’s reading
glasses beside it. Apparently he had stopped reading, and perhaps had
dozed.

I had noticed lately that he dozed rather often; a sort of half-sleep,
like that of a very old man. Although Joseph was not that. He was
perhaps in his late fifties.

Of a weapon there was no sign whatever.

I was apparently calm enough by that time. I knew that we had probably
heard the shot, but that we had laid it to the customary explosions in
the street. I knew that Jock had not seen a rabbit, but something
infinitely more sinister, and even to an extent I was able to
reconstruct the crime; Dick had left open the door to the kitchen, and
Joseph had not closed it, or certainly not locked it.

There had been ten minutes after Dick had passed through the pantry, and
a shot required but a second of time. I think it was then that I
remembered the slamming door, and I realized that while I stared at
Joseph the murderer was still in the house, working his way forward.

The sharp ringing of the door bell over my head at that moment sent a
chill over me. But it was only Dick and Judy, to report that the front
door had been closed, although Dick had recklessly left it standing
open, and to stare at me with curious eyes.

“Look here,” Judy said. “Something’s happened to Joseph, hasn’t it?”

“He’s hurt.”

“Who hurt him?”

“I don’t know,” I said, and then I broke down and began to cry again.
That shocked them profoundly. I remember Judy pushing me into the
library and Dick running back. Then I believe I fainted, for I recall
very little until the police were in the house, and Doctor Simonds was
bending over me.

They took Joseph to the hospital that night, and they extracted the
bullet. He was not badly hurt, but was suffering considerable pain.

“He’s strong,” Doctor Simonds told me, “and he has kept himself in good
condition. He’s not flabby like most butlers. But he’s had a shock, more
of a shock than he cares to tell about.”

“He won’t say who did it?”

“No. He says he doesn’t know. But as he was shot from in front at pretty
close range, that’s unlikely. Unless he was asleep.”

In spite of myself I could not get Wallie out of my mind after I had
learned that. Wallie with his revolver, and that odd statement of
Joseph’s that he did not know who shot him.

Inspector Harrison was very noncommittal. One curious thing he had found
that night, ranging over that first floor while Doctor Simonds worked
over Joseph in the pantry. This was that the criminal, whoever it was,
had paused long enough in the library to take a glass of sherry!

A decanter had been brought in earlier in the evening with some
biscuits, but none of us had touched it. Yet sherry had been poured and
apparently drunk. A little had even been spilled on the top of my old
desk, and as it lay for some time the desk bears the stains to this day.

“But it’s incredible,” I said.

“Not incredible probably if we know the answer, but it certainly argues
a degree of recklessness that’s unusual, to say the least. If Jock saw
this person with the gun near the garage, and you heard the front door
slam, it looks as though he simply walked in the back and out the front
of the house.”

“Stopping in the library for a little wine,” I said bitterly.

“Precisely. Stopping in the library for a little wine.”

There was no weapon anywhere. True, Joseph’s own revolver was in the
pantry drawer where he kept it, but it had not been fired and the
chambers were clean and new.

Dick had gone with the ambulance, and as Robert was not about I sent
Judy home in a taxicab soon after. It was not until she had gone that
the Inspector ceased his ranging over the lower floor and coming into
the library planted himself in front of me.

“I’m going to ask you a few plain questions, Miss Bell, and I want plain
answers. First, tell me again about young Carter going back into the
house.”

“He ran back for a knife. I’ve told you——”

“Yes. Whose idea was this ‘experiment,’ as you call it?”

“I think it was his. I really don’t think it was Judy’s. He and Judy had
both been talking about it.”

“But Miss Judy left the knife in the house? Are you sure of that?”

“He accused her of it. Half jokingly, of course.”

“That’s different. Now let’s go over this. He ran in by the kitchen,
through the house and into the library, and then out by the front door?”

“Yes.”

“Why the front door?”

“I daresay it was nearer.”

He paced the floor for a moment, and the toothpick between his strong
white teeth had an aggressive tilt. I began to feel uneasy, without
knowing quite why.

“How well do you know young Carter? What do you know about him?” he
fired at me suddenly.

“Nothing at all, really; except that he is rather a dear boy and—Judy
thinks so.”

“Where does he come from? Who are his people?”

“I haven’t the remotest idea. I imagine he is practically alone. I know
he is an orphan.”

“He’s poor, I take it?”

“Poor and very proud, Inspector.”

“Humph,” he grunted. “Doesn’t it beat the devil the way a good looking
boy with nice manners can get everywhere, and no questions asked? Now
understand me, Miss Bell, I’m not saying Dick Carter fired that shot
tonight; but I am saying that he had an excellent chance to fire that
shot. And I’m going to tell you something else. He had a revolver in
that Ford of his, parked in the front drive.”

I was angry and outraged, but he lifted a hand against my protest.

“Now wait a minute. I’m thinking out loud, that’s all; and I have a good
bit of respect for your discretion. I’ve got that gun here, and we have
a man in the department who’ll be able to tell us if it’s been fired
lately. Magazine’s full, of course. He’d have had time to do that, and
to slip it into the pocket of his car on the way back to you and Miss
Judy.”

“But why on earth would he shoot Joseph?” I demanded angrily. “Just
because he has an automatic, and I happen to know that he has carried
one in his car ever since this trouble began, it is ridiculous to
suspect him.”

“I told you I was only thinking out loud,” he said blandly, and soon
after that he went away.

It was the next day that Dick was sent for and interrogated, and Judy
came around to see me with black shadows under her eyes and a look of
despair in them.

“They suspect him,” she said. “They’ve got something against him now,
and they may get more. Listen. What became of that knife Dick had last
night?”

“I haven’t seen it since. It may be on my desk downstairs.”

“It isn’t,” she wailed. “They’ve got it, and it was Wallie’s. Dick found
it in his room the night he and Joseph searched it, and brought it away.
It had the point missing from one blade.”

“Do be rational, Judy. What has that got to do with it?”

“I’m as rational as you are. That knife had the point broken off a
blade, and if that point fits the piece the Inspector has, the piece he
found on the step after Sarah was killed, what will they think?”

“Did Joseph see him take the knife?”

“No. He just slid it into his pocket. You see we have always been sure
that it was Wallie on the stairs that night, and Dick thought the knife
might prove it. He showed it to me, and I thought so too.”

“You can tell them that, Judy.”

“And would they believe me? They would not. How do they know I’m not
mixed up in the whole rotten mess? How do they know Sarah didn’t write
me about the will? I came down that day, didn’t I? And I telephoned Dick
that night. How do they know I didn’t tell him Sarah was out with that
copy of the will in her pocketbook? I stood to lose a lot by that will,
and so did Dick if he married me.”

“You’re crazy, Judy!”

“Am I? Uncle Jim saw that man on the hillside, didn’t he? Saw him and
recognized him. Who’s he protecting? Can’t they easily think he’s being
noble and protecting Dick for me?”

“And—Joseph?”

“They’d find a reason for Joseph, if they wanted one.”

“Still I daresay that even in their wildest moments, Judy, they would
not accuse Dick of knocking himself unconscious on the hill, or of
trying to brain you in the garage.”

She laughed a little, in spite of herself, and she went away somewhat
comforted. But I myself was not so sure.

They released Dick, however, after that interrogation, and things seemed
to go on much as before. But I have reason to think that he was more or
less under observation from that time on.




                          CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE


Yet things were moving rapidly to the _dénouement_, although none of us
suspected it. It was the next day that Inspector Harrison found, on the
hillside below the garage and leading up to it, those footprints of
which he was to say nothing until his case was complete. I saw him from
a rear upper window, tramping about with Simmons at his heels, and every
now and then he would stoop and plant a stick in the ground. Toothpicks,
maybe, although they would be a trifle small.

But this was the next day. That night he left a policeman on guard in
the house, and the next morning one appeared to patrol the grounds. That
continued to the end.

I think it was the next day, or the day following, that Lily Sanderson
called up to say that Mrs. Bassett was dead.

“She simply slept away,” she said. “One of the boarders here thinks she
got hold of the morphia and took an overdose, but if she did who can
blame her?”

She seemed very sad and desolate. I told her to come in some time, and
then what with one thing and another I am afraid I forgot them both;
Lily getting her sleep now, in that meretricious bedroom of hers, and
Mrs. Bassett resting at last after more trouble than most human beings
are called upon to bear.

I was not well during that day or two following the shooting of Joseph.
I had been profoundly shocked, and what with worry about Wallie and the
long strain I almost collapsed. Doctor Simonds ordered me to bed on, I
think, the second day, and Judy stayed with me as much as possible.

She was still anxious about Dick, still fearful for him. She seemed to
think that because everything was quiet that that very quiet was
ominous, and in her desperation she was casting about for some one, any
one, on whom to throw the guilt.

Thus, I think it was on Wednesday, she said to me suddenly, after the
doctor had gone:

“I don’t like that man.”

“Why not, Judy?”

“He’s oily, and he’s always around!”

“Only when he’s sent for.”

“Is he?” She looked at me queerly. “Do you suppose he just happened to
be passing the house the night Joseph was shot?”

“Was he? I didn’t know that.”

“Well, he was. I picked him off the street. Dick was at the telephone,
and I ran down to the gate to see if I could find a policeman. He was
passing by in his car then.”

“Well, that was fortunate, wasn’t it?”

“That depends,” she said slowly. “Look back a little, Elizabeth Jane. He
takes care of father when he is sick here; and he knows about the will;
he knows us all, and all about us. And when you think about it, he’s
always around, isn’t he? Somebody throws Joseph down the back stairs,
and where is Doctor Simonds? He’s apparently waiting in his office to be
called. I get hurt in the garage, and he’s at home sitting by the
telephone! Joseph gets shot, and he’s passing by the house.”

“Really, Judy!”

“I’m going to get rid of this if it kills me. Uncle Jim gets sick, and
who is in and out of his house day and night? Simonds. It’s like that
nursery rhyme about the warm cot, only the answer isn’t mother. It’s
Doctor Simonds. He could get into the garage and put that oil on the
carpet of the car, and so bring Uncle Jim into it. And he’s got a car of
his own and drives like the devil.

“How do we know he didn’t go to New York that night and see father? And
he’s tall and rather thin, and he’s got evening clothes and wears them.
What I’d like to know,” she went on, her voice raised and her color
high, “is where Doctor Simonds comes in in all this. We’ve been taking
his word right along, but how do we know he isn’t lying?”

“A reputable doctor——” I began.

“Oh, I’m sick of reputable doctors and reputable lawyers. I don’t trust
any one any more. How do we know those two didn’t get together, Mr.
Waite and Doctor Simonds, and cook this thing up with Wallie? Doctor
Simonds dopes father, and Mr. Waite draws the will. And Sarah’s
suspicious. She puts on the record that father was queer that day.”

“And so your Uncle Jim saw him that night on the hillside after he had
killed poor Sarah, and is willing to be tried for his life to protect
him? Don’t be silly. Are you intimating also that Doctor Simonds did
away with Wallie and shot Joseph?”

“Why not?” she said more calmly. “Wallie was coming out with the whole
story on the stand, so he had to be got out of the way. And Joseph knew
something, or suspected somebody, so he was shot. And don’t forget this.
He meant to kill Joseph. That was the big idea.”

“I don’t believe it. Doctor Simonds has attended me for years, and——”

She made an impatient gesture.

“Why is it,” she demanded, “that all women over a certain age have a
soft spot for their doctors? Doctors are human. I’m asking you to think,
not to be sentimental. Wallie knows the question will come up of undue
influence, or of father not being capable of making a will. So what do
they do? Doctor Simonds writes him a note, that father is perfectly
capable of making a will. And whose word have we that the two were as
reconciled during that sickness as Wallie pretends? Doctor Simonds
again! You never heard Sarah say so, did you?”

“She never talked. And she didn’t like Wallie.”

“Then again, come down to the night Joseph was shot. Who could walk into
this house without suspicion? Suppose we’d happened in before he got
Joseph? Would we have suspected him of anything? No! He’d have said he
saw the door open and dropped in, or that he wanted to use the
telephone, and you’d have given him a glass of the sherry he likes so
much and thought nothing of it.”

“Why would he have come in the back door?”

“How do we know he came in the back door? Why didn’t he come in the
front, take a glass of wine, and then wander back. Maybe he hadn’t
planned to kill Joseph just then, but there was the chance, and he took
it.”

I think that was on Wednesday, and Joseph had been shot on Sunday night.

It is hardly surprising that I could not sleep that night, although
everything was safe enough now that crime had at last entered my very
house. From the night of the shooting an officer had patrolled the
grounds in the daytime, keeping out the curious crowds which would
otherwise have overrun us, and another one had stayed downstairs in the
house at night.

The maids left him a night supper in the pantry, and a coffee pot on the
range. About two in the morning there would steal through the house the
aroma of boiling coffee, and although I had begun to suffer from a
chronic insomnia, that homely and domestic odor acted on me like a
narcotic. Downstairs was the law, armed and substantial, and awake. I
would go to sleep then.

But that night I did not. I lay in my hot bed and listened to the
far-off movements below, and that theory of Judy’s grew until it became
a nightmare. At last I got up, put on a dressing gown and slippers, and
went down the stairs.

The pantry looked very comfortable, bright with lights and with that
solid square blue figure drawn up to the table before the cold roast
beef, the salad, the bread and cheese and coffee which were to stay it
until morning.

But the officer was taking no chances in that pantry. The shades were
closely drawn, and a chair was placed against the swinging door into the
kitchen.

I must have moved very silently, for when I spoke he leaped to his feet
and whirled on me; none the less impressive because the only weapon in
his hand was a silver fork.

“I’ve come for some coffee,” I said.

“Come in, ma’am. Come in,” he said heartily. And I gathered from the
zeal with which he served me that he too had found the night long and
not a little dreary.

So we sat there, the two of us, companionably supping. He recommended
mustard for the cold beef and so I took mustard, which I happen to
despise. All the time he carried on a running fire of conversation, like
a man who is relieved to hear the sound of any voice, even his own. And
when my complaisance regarding the mustard brought tears to my eyes, he
even leaned over and patted my arm.

“You get that coffee down, ma’am,” he said, “and you’ll feel better. I
guess you’ve been through plenty.”

Here, however, he delicately decided to change the subject.

“What’s happened to the red-haired girl who was here the night of
the—the night you sent for us? I haven’t seen her since.”

“That was my niece, Judy Somers. She does not live here. But she is not
red-haired.”

“I don’t mean Miss Somers. This girl was red-headed, all right. She was
running up the drive just ahead of me. When she heard me, she stopped.”

I sat perfectly still. Fortunately he was busy with his coffee, into
which he was putting lump after lump of sugar. I managed to steady my
voice.

“A red-haired girl?” I said slowly. “Did she speak to you?”

“I’ll say she did. Caught me by the arm and wanted to know what was
wrong in the house. I said: ‘What business is that of yours?’ and she
said she worked here. She had a right to know. The rest had gone on, and
I was in a hurry myself, but she hung onto me, and I saw that she looked
sort of sick. ‘Somebody been hurt,’ I said, and with that she let me
go.”

“You didn’t see her again?”

He looked at me and smiled.

“I’ve been watching for her here. She was a right good looking girl. But
I haven’t seen her. You know who it is, I suppose?”

“Yes. But she is not in my employ any longer.”

I thought he looked disappointed, but certainly not suspicious. He had
however little more to tell. The precinct men had arrived before. He had
come from headquarters in the side car of a motorcycle which had dropped
him at the street, so that he was afoot when he overtook her.

I slept not at all that night. I was remembering a conversation I had
had with the Inspector the morning after Joseph was shot, and following
that examination he had made of the hillside.

“Just what do you know about Joseph, Miss Bell? His private life, I
mean.”

“I don’t believe he had any.”

“He’d never seemed in any fear, had he? For himself, I mean?”

“Not that I know of.”

“Never took any precautions, I suppose? Didn’t act like a man with
anything hanging over him?”

“Not at all. He had looked very tired lately, and I had asked him if he
wanted to go away. I have never seen him show any fear, except that last
night as we went through the pantry he had the windows all closed. I
spoke about it, and he said it was ‘safer.’ Or he felt safer.”

“What about women? I suppose you wouldn’t know about that?”

“I am sure there was nothing of the sort.”

“Well, I’m not. I’ll come to that later. But there are some things about
this shooting that make it just a little different from the others. In
the first place, the method’s different. There’s no attempt to
camouflage the crime, and no attempt at even ordinary care against
detection. In the others care was taken. I’ll go further and say that
I’ve never seen a case where such steps were taken, during and later, to
cover every possible trail.

“But look at this. You’re around the corner, only fifty feet away.
You’ve got a dog, two dogs. Except for the fact that you held the
terrier that night he’d have made a row that would have awakened the
neighborhood. The house is fully lighted. Joseph is awake, or was until
a moment or so before the shot. If he was asleep the criminal can’t know
it. The shades are drawn.

“Then again, why shoot him in the house? He must have been in and out.
He goes to the garage sometimes, he is not always shut up at night.
Since Walter’s disappearance he’s been out at all hours and in all sorts
of places.

“But he’s shot right here, in a bright light. The psychology’s
different, that’s all. Look at this: I’ve just shot Joseph back there.
I’ve got the revolver in my pocket, and so far I’ve got away with it.
I’ve been watching the place, so I know you three are outside and may
come in at any moment. The front door is open; the hall is brightly
lighted. You may come in that way, walk right in on me. What’s my normal
procedure?”

“I should think you’d get out as fast as possible.”

“Absolutely. But I don’t. I saunter into that library, in a full light,
pour myself a glass of sherry, put down the glass and then take my
departure. And if you didn’t use cut glass sherry glasses I’d leave a
decent fingerprint instead of what we have. It’s too reckless to be
normal! Unless it’s a woman.”

At four o’clock that morning, unwilling to disturb the Inspector until
later, I called Dick and asked him what he thought of it. He was drowsy
and only half awake.

“She was running up the drive, toward the house,” I said. “And she
didn’t know what had happened. She asked the officer.”

But I could hear him yawning over the telephone.

“Sorry,” he said. “The old bean isn’t working very well. Probably she
knew a lot more than she was admitting. Maybe she was running out, and
when she heard your policeman she reversed the process. It’s an old
dodge, you know.”

I sat on the side of my bed, the telephone on my knee, and tried to
think. If that casual hypothesis of Dick’s was correct, then Mary Martin
had shot Joseph. It would have been easy enough. She knew the house and
the habits of all of us; that the two maids retired early, that Joseph
sat reading until late in the pantry; if she had seen Judy and Dick and
myself go out into the grounds, she knew that the lower floor outside of
the pantry was unoccupied. She had only to enter by the kitchen, fire
her shot, and go forward, in order to escape.

But she had not escaped. In the ten, perhaps fifteen minutes between my
finding Joseph and the arrival of the police, she had had plenty of
time, but she had not gone.

Had she been upstairs during that interval, on some mysterious errand of
her own? In Sarah’s room, perhaps, or Joseph’s, and then later on in the
upper hall, peering over the banister and watching that influx of blue
coats and muscular bodies; still later on stealing down the stairs, step
by step. Sounds from the pantry, men talking, and Mary looking over her
shoulder. Then the still open front door, a run for freedom, and the
sound of a motorcycle stopping and escape cut off.

Had she turned in a panic, and started back toward the house? Or had she
already planned the maneuver in case of necessity? To believe that last
was to believe her old in crime, infinitely cunning and desperate.

I had worked myself into a condition bordering on hysteria by seven in
the morning, when I called up Inspector Harrison, but his very voice
quieted me. He was angry enough, however, when I had told him the story.

“The damned blockhead!” he exploded, referring to the policeman. “I’ll
break him for this.”

“He didn’t know. She said she worked here.”

“She did, did she? She’s a quick thinker. But what was she doing there?”

“You don’t think she shot Joseph?”

“Well, I don’t think she’s the temperament to shoot Joseph and then go
in and take a glass of wine. No.”

I felt relieved. I was not fond of Mary, but the picture I had drawn for
myself during the night had revolted me.

“Then I’m glad I talked to you. And by the way, Mrs. Bassett is dead.”

I told him of Lily Sanderson’s message, and he was silent for so long
when I had finished that I thought we might have been disconnected.

“Hello,” I said. “Central, I’ve——”

“I’m still here, Miss Bell. I’m sitting on a chair thinking what a
damned fool I’ve been. I don’t belong on the force. I ought to be a
paperhanger!”

And with that he hung up the receiver.




                             CHAPTER THIRTY


We know now of that frantic rush he made, within ten minutes of my
calling, to the Halkett Street house, and of that frenzied search he
made later on that day, along the highways and particularly the by-ways
of the Warrenville Road. Some time after midnight he found what he was
after, and not too late.

That had been in his mind all that day; the fear that he would be too
late. And in the meantime he had set his guards. There was to be no
escape this time, not even by death.

Even then he did not know the story, of course. But he knew the criminal
and his incredible cunning. Let all go on as usual. Confide in no one.
Disarm him, throw him off the track, and then into that fancied security
of his thrust the long arm of the law. That was his method, he has said
since, and that it answered is shown by the fact that for ten days
apparently nothing happened.

Ten hot July days, with Godfrey working on the appeal; with Jim growing
weak from heat and strain; with Joseph in the hospital, receiving our
visits with great dignity, but refusing to alter his original story that
he had been asleep and had not seen his assailant; with no word whatever
of Wallie, or of Mary Martin; with the flowers on Mrs. Bassett’s grave
shriveled in the sun, and the policemen still on duty in my house and
grounds, and with Katherine still in the house on Pine Street,
stubbornly refusing to accept that repudiation of her which she
considered Howard’s second will to be.

Some time in that ten days I made a list of possible and impossible
suspects, with a notation following, and as it is before me now I
reproduce it. It shows better than I can tell it the utter confusion of
my mind.

This is my list:

                Godfrey Lowell       (Unlikely)
                Inspector Harrison   (Why?)
                Doctor Simonds       (Possible)
                Mr. Waite            (Possible but
                                     unlikely)
                Wallie               (Improbable, and
                                     why?)
                Dick Carter          (Possible but
                                     incredible)
                Jim                  (Possible but
                                     unlikely)
                Abner                (No)
                Amos                 (Dead)
                Joseph               (Himself shot)
                Robert               (Unlikely. No
                                     reason)

In such fashion did I fill in those ten interminable days. There were
apparently no new developments, and the Inspector obstinately absented
himself. Judy had grown thin to the point of emaciation, and still by
night our guard ranged the lower floor and by day patrolled the grounds.

And then, on the seventeenth day of July, Katherine made her resolution
and precipitated the crisis. It came that night.

Joseph had come home from the hospital that day, I remember. He took
hold of the household much as usual, tottering from the silver drawer to
the kitchen closets; but he was much shattered, and with that bandaged
arm of his he could do very little. I arranged to send him to the
country for a few weeks, and he agreed gratefully.

Then out of a clear sky, on the seventeenth of July, Katherine made her
resolution and precipitated the crisis.

She was an intelligent woman, Katherine. Perhaps I have done her less
than justice in this narrative. She was strange during that time, more
frightened than she wanted us to know, and the result was that she
withdrew herself.

I think from the time Jim took the stand at the trial, maybe even before
it, she knew that he was protecting somebody.

“You say that you saw his white shirt front? What do you mean by that?”

“Just what I say. A white shirt front.”

“He wore no vest?”

“I can’t say. I had only an impression of evening clothes. He might have
worn a dinner jacket.”

“But you are sure of the cap?”

“No. I think it was a cap.”

“Yet he came, according to your story, so close to you that he knocked
this stick out of your hand. You could see a cap and a white shirt
front, but you could not see anything more?”

And it was then that Jim hesitated. He was under oath, and an oath is a
solemn matter. Then he glanced toward Katherine, and sat up a little in
his chair.

“That is all I saw. I was on the ground. His face was turned down the
hill.”

Whom would be protect with his life but Howard? Howard with his heavy
white hair, his invariable dinner dress in the evenings, and something
to be kept hidden at any cost. Small wonder that Katherine thought of
Margaret, or that she reverted to the will as the key to the mystery.

And so, very close to the end now, I go to the scene that afternoon,
when at Katherine’s request I accompanied her to Mr. Waite’s office.

She had made the appointment and we were admitted at once. I was rather
shocked by the change in Mr. Waite. He looked worn and not too well, and
I thought there was a certain apprehension in his eyes when he greeted
us.

He rose, but did not come forward.

“I am lame again,” he explained, indicating a cane which stood beside
him. “The old trouble. Well, I can only say that I am shocked and
grieved, Mrs. Somers. Of course the appeal——”

“An appeal will do no good,” said Katherine somberly.

“Still, new facts may come up. The case is of course not closed
until——”

“Until they have killed an innocent man,” Katherine finished for him.
“And that is what they will do, Mr. Waite, unless the truth can be
brought out.”

He stirred uneasily in his chair.

“The truth? What is the truth? I am as much in the dark as you are.” And
seeing her face, he bent toward her across the desk. “I know what you
mean, Mrs. Somers, and—I can understand. Nevertheless, I tell you that
as surely as I sit here in this chair, Mr. Somers outlined the
provisions of that will and signed it when I had prepared it. He was as
rational as I am now. He discussed his family and his affairs. He even
recognized that the will would be a blow to you, and said that he meant
to leave an explanatory letter with it. Just why he did not do so I
don’t understand.”

He was not acting. He was telling us facts, and I think Katherine saw it
as well as I did. She sat stiffly upright, but the antagonism was gone
from her voice.

“He did not explain the fund of fifty thousand dollars?”

“He did, and he did not. The son was to administer it for some purpose.
He simply said that Walter would understand. He was of course still very
weak, and he was not a talkative man, I understand. To be frank, I was
in pain that first day, and not much better the second. I don’t recall
many details, although of course I have tried to since. A will is a
routine matter.”

“He did not appear to have been drugged?”

“Absolutely not.”

“And Sarah was there? Sarah Gittings?”

“She left the room, but she came in once and gave him some medicine.”

But Katherine was stubborn. Here were the facts, and she still refused
to accept them. Mr. Waite saw that, and stiffened in his chair.

“The will was genuine, Mrs. Somers,” he said. “If you have any doubt of
it, I will go to the hotel with you, and we will repeat my own actions
of those two days. I will show you that on the first day I was taken to
Mr. Somers’ room by the hotel manager himself, and that the floor clerk
saw us and remembers this. I will show you that Walter Somers received
me at the door and took me in, and that on both days Florence Gunther
was with me. The floor clerk saw her there also.”

“That is what she says. I know that, Mr. Waite.”

He made an angry gesture.

“But she may be lying? I wonder if you realize what you are saying? If I
had forged that will—and it seems to me that this is what you
imply—why should I have gone there at all? Good God, madam, what had I
to gain by such a criminal proceeding? It’s nonsense, insane outrageous
nonsense.”

Katherine, however, seemed hardly to hear him. Certainly his words had
no effect on her. She looked up from that careful inspection of her
gloves.

“You would be willing to go to the hotel?”

“Of course I’ll go to the hotel. Do you think I am afraid to go?”

She stood up, and for the first time it apparently occurred to her that
he was angry; white with anger. She looked at him with that faint
childlike expression which so altered her face.

“I’m sorry. It’s only that I don’t understand. You see, there was no
reason, no reason at all. Not if Margaret Somers was dead.”

He was polite but still somewhat ruffled when we started out. None of
us, I am sure, had any idea that any _dénouement_ was imminent. I
remember that Mr. Waite delayed a moment or two to sign some letters,
and that he grunted as he got up and reached for his stick.

“I’ve lost four teeth and two tonsils to cure this thing,” he grumbled,
“and I’m just where I started.”

And so we reached the hotel, Katherine silent and absorbed, Mr. Waite
limping, and I trailing along and feeling absurd and in the way.

We were fortunate in one thing: the rooms Howard had occupied were
empty. Unluckily the manager was out, but the floor clerk, Miss Todd,
was at her desk. She greeted us with the decorous gravity the occasion
seemed to demand, and bowed to Mr. Waite.

“You remember me?” he asked her.

“Oh, perfectly, Mr. Waite.”

“And that I came here on two succeeding days?”

“Yes, indeed. Mr. Hendrickson brought you up the first day.” And she
added glibly: “The first day you had the young lady with you. The second
day she came again, and the hotel notary came up later. I remember it
all very clearly. Miss Gunther sat down there on that chair until you
called her in.”

“And why?” said Katherine suddenly, “did she wait in the hall? There was
a sitting room.”

Miss Todd looked slightly surprised.

“That’s so,” she said. “That’s queer, isn’t it? Do you remember why, Mr.
Waite?”

Mr. Waite however did not remember. He had seen no sitting room. He had
been ushered directly from the hall into the bedroom.

“I suppose the nurse was in there,” he said impatiently. “If you will
open the rooms, Miss Todd——”

Miss Todd was very curious, and I think rather thrilled. She led the way
briskly to the sitting room of the suite, unlocked the door and threw
open a window or two; but if she had hoped to be asked to remain she was
disappointed.

“In which room was Mr. Somers?”

“In there. I’ll light the lights.”

“Thanks. If you’ll close the door as you go out——”

Some of Mr. Waite’s irritation had returned. He limped into the bedroom
Miss Todd had indicated and stood surveying it.

“I imagine your questions are answered, Mrs. Somers,” he said crisply.
“Here is the room. You have learned that I came here as I said. If you
believe that I came for any other purpose than to draw up a will, I will
remind you that I had not spoken ten words to Mr. Somers in my life
until that day. I came because I was sent for, and for that reason
only.”

Katherine moistened her dry lips.

“And my husband was in bed?”

“In this bed. I sat down beside him, and I saw that he looked very ill.
It was a dark day, but the lamp was on. I sat down here, as the lamp was
on this side of the bed then. I see they have moved it.”

There was a curious look in Katherine’s face.

“I wonder,” she said tensely, “if you mind doing again just what you did
then? Can you remember? Try to remember, Mr. Waite! Everything. Every
_little_ thing.”

I could see that her suppressed excitement had its effect on him. He
glanced at her, and his voice was not so cold. He walked to the hall
door and opened it.

“Let me see,” he said. “Yes. Walter Somers was outside the door, in the
hall. He opened the door and said: ‘Father, Mr. Waite is here.’ Then he
stepped back and I came in alone. I think he closed the door behind me.
Yes, he closed the door.

“I said: ‘Well, Mr. Somers, I’m sorry to see you laid up.’ He said
something about his condition; that he was better, or getting better,
and I put down my hat and gloves and got out some paper and my fountain
pen. After that it was strictly business. He had the will pretty well
thought out, and I suppose I was there only a half hour.”

“And that is all?”

“All I can recall.”

“He seemed perfectly normal. But he was nervous. I had propped my stick
against the table, and once it slipped and fell. I remember that he
jumped as though I had hit him. I picked it up and hung it on the
doorknob, and—that’s funny! That’s damned queer.”

He was staring at the wall beside the bed.

“They’ve taken away the door,” he said.

“What door?”

“There was a door there by my right hand. It’s on the other side of the
bed now.”

We all stood there, stupidly staring at the door. None of us, I fancy,
had the remotest idea of its significance at that moment. It was
Katherine who realized it first.

“Are you certain you were in this room, Mr. Waite?”

“I don’t know. They all look alike. Of course they are always changing
these places about.”

And I think to Katherine must go the credit of that discovery, although
Inspector Harrison had known it for at least a week. She was very calm,
very quiet, as she went into the hall and called Miss Todd again.

“You are certain that this was my husband’s bedroom?”

“Oh, yes, indeed, Mrs. Somers.”

“And it has not been altered since? No changes have been made?”

“Only the new curtains at the windows.”

“Thank you.”

Miss Todd retired, her sharp eyes giving us a final survey as she closed
the door. Not until she was gone did Katherine move, and then it was to
cross the sitting room and glance into the bedroom there. Then she
called to us, quietly enough.

“I think this is where you came, Mr. Waite,” she said. “To Walter’s
bedroom, where an accomplice of Walter’s impersonated his father and
drew that will.”

And only then was there a ring of triumph in her tired voice. “I knew
it,” she said. “I knew it. My poor Howard!”




                           CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE


Of the plot which lay behind that discovery we had no knowledge. It was
enough at the moment that there had been a conspiracy.

But later on in the day, the initial shock over, our ideas began to
crystallize. Who had been the man in the bed? What relation did he bear
to the murders? Was he himself the murderer?

None of us, however, gathered in my library that night, believed what
was the fact; that the amazing _dénouement_ was even then in
preparation, and that it was a matter of only a few hours until all our
questions were to be answered.

We were silent but more cheerful than we had been for days on end. There
was hope now for Jim, and Katherine’s relief was written in her face.
Jim would be saved and Howard was once again hers to mourn. The frozen
look had left her.

Judy too looked better than she had looked for weeks.

She had come in with her eyes bright and her color high, to show me a
very nice but extremely small diamond on her engagement finger.

“Isn’t it beautiful?” she said.

“It is indeed beautiful,” I told her gravely. For it seemed so to me,
that symbol of Dick’s pride and his essential honesty. And I was proud
of Judy, that she wore that bit of stone as a queen might wear a crown.

But talking got us nowhere that night. Again and again we went back to
the scene in that hotel bedroom, with no result. It was Judy, with
Dick’s arm around her and Katherine accepting that as she had accepted
the ring, who put forth the theory that the fifty thousand dollar clause
which had been put in the will was to be the payment to this unknown for
his services.

And it was Dick who followed that scene to its logical conclusion, and
who said that a man who could put on a wig and look enough like Howard
to deceive Mr. Waite under those circumstances, could easily have fooled
Jim at night on the hillside.

Nevertheless, we were as far from the identity of this man as ever.

It was a broiling July night. At ten o’clock Joseph, in his traveling
clothes, brought in some lemonade—he was leaving at eleven that night
for a short holiday—and I remember that he had hardly gone out when
Judy drew up a window shade for air, and suddenly drew back from the
window.

“There’s a man out there!” she said. “Just outside the window!”

Dick ran out at once. He was gone for some time, and when he came back
it was to report that nobody was in sight, but that it was about to
storm and that they’d better be on their way. I thought he looked rather
odd, but we were all on edge that night and so I said nothing.

I was uneasy after they had gone. I wandered back to the pantry, where
Robert was talking with the policeman and waiting for Joseph to come
down, and while Robert stayed in the pantry the officer made a round of
the house, inside and out. He found nothing, however, and as the storm
broke soon after that, Joseph departed to the car by way of the kitchen
porch in such a downpour as I have seldom seen.

I did not go up to bed, although it was eleven o’clock. I had a strange
feeling of uneasiness, as though something was about to happen, or had
happened. And at a little after eleven Jock sat up in the hall and gave
tongue to a really dreadful howl.

I do not even now pretend to explain that wail, or that when I went into
the hall both dogs were standing with their neck ruffs on end, staring
into the dark drawing room.

I had a picture of that, of the incredulous terror in their attitudes;
then they turned and bolted into the library, and I am not ashamed to
admit that I followed them, and slammed and locked the door.

No, I have no explanation. When a short time later Inspector Harrison
arrived and rang the door bell, he found me locked in the library; and
it was all he could do to make me open the door.

He was soaking wet, and he looked very weary. He looked dejected, too,
although I did not understand that until later on.

“I’m late,” he said, “but we’ve had to cut open a safe deposit box in a
bank, and it took some time and some red tape. Then I had another little
job—I’m not proud of that. I’m coming to it pretty soon, but I’m not
proud of it. Still, maybe it’s all for the best. It will save Walter
Somers a lot of trouble.”

“Walter? He is alive?”

“He is. I’ve been doing a little nursing now and then, in odd moments!
But he’s alive. He’s going to live. He’s conscious, too, since
yesterday. And now that you’ve turned up the story of the will—Waite
told me—I hope the family won’t prosecute. He tried to do the right
thing, and it damn near cost him his life.”

He sat back and bit savagely on the end of a rather soggy toothpick.

“Yes,” he said, “I’ve bungled this thing. When I did get on the right
track it was pretty late. It was the shooting of Joseph Holmes that
started me straight, by the way. But I lost a lot of time, one way and
another, and—well, I’ll say this, our killer will never kill again.”

“You’ve got him? The murderer?”

“Yes,” he said. “Yes—and no.”

I sat bolt upright in my excitement.

“Who was it, Inspector? Surely I have a right to know.”

“I’m coming to that.” He looked at me and smiled quizzically. “But not
right off. We’ll lead up to it, and then there’ll be no shock.”

“Shock! Then I know him?”

“You do indeed,” he said gravely. “That’s why I want to tell you the
story first, so you’ll understand. We’ll call it a sort of psychological
preparation. And I’m going to tell the story without telling you his
name. Well call him James C. Norton, because that’s the name he used
when he rented the safe deposit box. Norton. And up to a quarter to
three o’clock today we hadn’t a hope of landing him. We knew he was
guilty, guilty as hell. We’ve watched him and followed him, but we
hadn’t a thing. Then today he went to the Commercial Bank—he had
to—and he gave the show away.

“Mind you, he knew he was being watched, or he suspected it. He didn’t
know I’d found Walter, however. He had half killed Walter and tied him
up in an abandoned farmhouse, and for a while he went back there now and
then. It wasn’t to his interest that Walter die. But later on it _was_
to his interest that Walter Somers die. He left him where I found him,
left him to die. I want you to remember that.

“Things were getting pretty hot for him, and with Walter dead the story
wasn’t likely to come out. And I’ll say for him, that he held on to the
last minute. He knew we had nothing on him. As a matter of fact we
didn’t, until about seven o’clock tonight.

“I want to give you a picture of this man, Miss Bell. We knew that he
was at least moderately tall and stronger than the average. After I
learned the story of that little comedy at the Imperial we knew he could
act, and that he was a bit of a forger. Also we knew he was quick and
catlike on his feet.

“But we knew some other things.

“This man had no heart, had no bowels of compassion. He had instead a
lust for money and an infinite capacity for wickedness. Also he had
cunning, a cunning so devilish that he had not only covered up his
tracks; he had deliberately thrown suspicion on another man by the
manufacture of false evidence.

“Such, for instance, was the oil in Jim Blake’s car; the use of Jim
Blake’s name in that deadly visit to New York, and the clothing,
expressly arranged to give the impression to the man Parrott that it was
Blake; and there was the telephone message using Blake’s name. And I say
here and now that this man would have let Jim Blake go to the chair with
less scruple than I break this toothpick.

“That’s the picture of this assassin. I want you to remember it.

“Now I’m going to somebody else. I don’t need to give you a picture of
her. But she seemed to be in this thing up to the neck. She was, and my
hat’s off to her. Her name is Mary Martin.”

“Mary! What has she done, but damage?”

He smiled again.

“She did her bit, when the truth began to drift in on her. She tried to
save Howard Somers, but this—this Norton was too smart for her. She
helped to find Walter. And on the night she was seen here in the drive
she was running because she knew something. She knew there was going to
be another murder, or an attempt at it.”

“She knew Joseph was to be killed!”

“She was afraid it would be tried. We’re coming to that. But she was in
a bad way herself; she suspected what had happened to Walter. She was
almost crazy, that girl. So she relaxed her vigilance and—you find
Joseph shot.”

“What possible interest had Mary Martin in Walter Somers, Inspector?” I
asked, bewildered.

“She had a very real interest. She had married him last fall.”

He gave me a moment to comprehend that, and then went on more briskly.

“Now let’s go back. Let’s go back to last summer, to the end of July.

“Walter Somers was in town, and one day he got a note to go to a house
on Halkett Street. He went, and he met there this man I’m calling
Norton, and a woman named Bassett. The Bassett woman claimed to have
been a maid in Margaret Somers’ employ in Biarritz, and that Margaret
Somers had there given birth to a child.”

“Howard Somers’ child?” I asked sharply.

“No. I believe that was the plot at first; it was all a plot anyhow.
There was no such child. This girl they were passing off was the Bassett
woman’s own daughter by an earlier marriage. The Bassett woman had
remarried. The girl’s name was Mary Martin.”

“Mary! And she believed it?”

“I think she did believe it for a time. She wanted to believe it. That’s
natural. But when the plot failed Mrs. Bassett told her the truth. The
immediate result, however, was that Walter sent for his father, and his
father came here.

“Howard Somers denied the story in toto. He had had no second child by
Margaret, and she had borne no child in Europe. The whole story was a
lie. But he worked himself into a heart attack over it, and that was the
start of the trouble.

“Norton’s little plan had failed. But this sickness gave him a new idea.
Queer how one criminal thought leads to another. He went to Walter with
the scheme about the will, and Walter almost kicked him out. But Walter
was in debt, and there was the idea. It got to ‘eating him,’ as he put
it. Then, too, he was already interested in the girl. The girl was
straight. She’d believed that story. As a matter of fact, when her
mother told her the truth she tried to see Howard Somers at the
Imperial, but they would not let her in.

“And there’s this to say in Walter’s defense; he felt that he had been
badly treated, that a half of the estate should have been his. Later on,
when his father was dead, he went on to New York to tell the whole
story. But they alienated him there, and we have to remember that he
wasn’t sure his father had been murdered. Mary Martin suspected it, and
told him so over the long distance telephone.

“And I’ll say this for him. He went to this Norton and Norton denied it.
But he laid Norton out cold on general principles, and Norton hated him
from that moment. That’s what I mean when I say Walter Somers has paid
his price. His wife was desperately in love with him, but she loathed
the whole imposture. She threatened again and again to uncover it.

“Now about this conspiracy to draw up a fake will. It wasn’t Walter
Somers’ idea, although he helped to put it through, and the cleverness
with which that will was put among his father’s papers was not his idea
either. It was simple enough, at that. Mr. Somers did not alter his mind
or his will during that illness, but he did pay some notes of Walter’s.
In some ways he was a hard man, and he made Walter bring him the
canceled notes.

“He meant to keep them. But Walter was afraid Mrs. Somers would find
them in case his father died, so he had him endorse the envelope to be
returned to him—to Walter—in that case.

“He told all this to Norton, and that was the start of the whole
business. Norton suggested that a spurious will could be placed in that
envelope and substituted for the notes, and that’s what happened. Howard
Somers himself carried back to New York and placed among his private
papers that bogus will, endorsed in his own hand ‘to be given to my son
Walter in the event of my death.’ It was neat, when you think of it.”

“Neat, but wicked, Inspector!”

“Wrong, yes. Still, you must remember that no murder was contemplated.
Fraud, yes, although Walter felt justifiable fraud, in a way. But
murder, never.

“So the comedy was staged, with the fifty thousand dollars to be this
Norton’s share, his pay for that imposture, for the study he had made of
Howard Somers’ signature, and for that bit of comedy where he lay in a
bed in a low light, on a day selected because it was dark and gray, and
feebly signed that spurious document.

“I haven’t been able to learn everything from Walter yet, but in that
bit of comedy—and God knows it’s the only comedy there is—the Bassett
woman in a nurse’s uniform played Sarah Gittings. Walter had prepared
for that by having her give massage treatments to his father. And Norton
was Mr. Somers. I imagine that Norton was the man with the box of
flowers the floor clerk remembered. He had long gray hair, she said, and
so Norton probably wore into the hotel that day the wig made to resemble
Howard Somers’ hair.

“That flower box had flowers in it. But it had some other things,
make-up and silk pyjamas, a dressing gown, a few bottles and toilet
articles to dress the room. That’s a guess, but it’s pretty accurate.

“It was Walter’s room, anyhow. But they locked off the door to the
sitting room, and Walter told Sarah Gittings he was having some friends
there for cocktails, and to ‘stay out.’

“Yes, it looked like a water-proof scheme. The hotel manager himself
brings Waite up, and Walter meets him in the hall. Nobody thinks about
that door. The notary comes up on the second day and witnesses the
signatures. Florence Gunther is brought in from the hall. When it is
over the players go away, one at a time, by the service staircase.

“Only one thing slipped. It was Sarah Gittings’ custom to go out for a
breath of air, and Walter took her place. But the two gray days with
rain that were the best for their purpose, the twelfth and thirteenth of
August, were bad days for her. She did not go out. She read a novel
aloud to Mr. Somers instead, and put that on her record.

“Now let’s go on to this last spring, when Sarah met Florence Gunther.
She may have remembered seeing her at the Imperial, sitting in the hall,
or it may have been pure accident. It’s enough for us that they met,
that Sarah told her she was with you, and as your connection with the
Somers family is well-known, that Florence finally mentioned the will.

“Sarah Gittings was incredulous, and after learning the date of the
will, she went home and examined her records. She saw then that no such
will could have been drawn on those days, and she began to try to reach
Mr. Blake. She also finally induced Florence to abstract that copy from
the safe, and on Monday the eighteenth of April she arranged to meet Mr.
Blake at the Halkett Street house.

“She had already secreted the records in the wood cellar, but that
evening she moved them to the cabinet. She had learned the terms of the
will that day, and she knew well enough that there had been fraud. Also
she knew about that secret compartment in the cabinet. When she took the
will from Florence that afternoon she gave her the clock dial
directions.

“But she felt safe enough. She had no thought of danger that night, when
she left this house.

“Now, I’m going to reconstruct that night of the eighteenth of April.
And you must remember that Walter Somers is still very weak, and that he
himself can only guess at a part of it.”




                           CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO


“At five minutes past seven Sarah Gittings left this house, taking the
dogs with her. She had the will for safekeeping probably inside her
shoe,—there had been some purse-snatching in this neighborhood—and she
carried in her bag the key to her room and the key to her front door;
but she was excited that night, and she forgot to lock her bedroom door.

“She went out the door, and in the drive she found Walter Somers waiting
for her. He knew that she frequently took the dogs out at that hour, and
this night he knew something else. He knew through Norton, who had his
own way of learning things, that she had met Florence that afternoon and
received a longish legal envelope from her.

“It looked as though the fat was in the fire.

“After he had talked to her, Walter saw that the game was all up. He
threw up his hands and told her he’d go to his father the next day and
tell him the whole story. But he begged her not to tell Jim Blake. If
his stepmother ever heard this story he was through. She agreed to this.

“But she would not give him the copy of the will. Said she’d left it in
the house. And he didn’t trust her. She had never liked him. He didn’t
even believe her.

“But she showed him her hand bag, and the will was not in it.

“‘I’ll give it back to you after you’ve seen your father,’ she told him,
and she left him standing there in the drive.

“He says, and I believe him, that he never saw her alive again.

“I’m not defending Walter for trying to get into the house and to get
the will. He did get in, although he broke the point of his knife in
doing so. While he was working at the putty of the door back there he
says he heard her whistling and calling for Jock, who appeared to have
wandered off. She was, he thought, in or near the Larimer lot, and later
on, when his errand had been fruitless and Joseph had helped him to
escape from the house, he thinks he still heard her.

“I imagine he is right about that. The dog had run off, and she hunted
him. Then, instead of going on to the house on Halkett Street, she may
have been coming back here to telephone and call off that meeting. In
any event, perhaps because she was tired with the climbing she had done,
on the way back she seems to have sat down on that log to rest.

“And that was where Norton found her, at or about the very time the
officer had arrived and the house was being searched. He probably heard
the dogs, and so located her. He struck her down from behind, so that
she never saw him, and he thought she was dead. Later on, at ten
o’clock, he went back to look and she was still living, although
unconscious. Then he finished the job. With a knife this time, a knife
with a blade approximately four and a half inches long.

“Something scared him about that time, and he ran. He didn’t see Blake
on the hill, coming back after waiting at the Halkett Street house for
her until twenty minutes to ten. He didn’t see Blake, but Blake saw him.
And now remember this. He—Norton—still had that wig like Howard
Somers’ own hair, and he was going back to see if that job needed
finishing. Also very likely he hadn’t got the will that first time. I
believe he put that wig on his head before he went back to the lot.

“He didn’t know what had happened in the interval. She might have been
found, there might be a policeman there. So he put on that disguise of
his, and he fooled Jim Blake; evening clothes, longish white hair and so
on. It isn’t hard, when the story began to come out, to see who Jim
Blake thought he saw that night.

“It put him to bed, and it damned near sent him to the chair.”

“Then this Norton, or whoever he is, killed her for the will?”

“Partly. Partly, too, because, although Walter Somers was sick of the
whole thing, Norton was determined that it go on. It was that
determination, that the will stand, that was behind all the other
murders.

“If Florence had kept quiet, she might have lived. He may have thought
she would. She’d taken that will from the safe, and she might keep quiet
about it. But she tried to see you, and that was fatal. Also, there was
something else which marked her for death. Sarah had told Walter about
her records for those two days, and when repeated searchings of this
house didn’t turn them up, this Norton concluded that Florence had them.

“Under the pretext of bringing her here to you, he lured her into a car.

“He killed her and searched her, and then he went to the Halkett Street
house that night and examined her room. He made the Bassett woman help
him. It was Mrs. Bassett the Sanderson woman heard crying.

“But I want to go back to Walter. Joseph helped him out of the house
that night, and he got away down the hill behind the garage, dressed and
came back here. You were expecting him, but he had to come back anyhow.
He had dropped his fountain pen into the air shaft, and it bore his
initials.

“He got it, as we know. He was uneasy when Sarah didn’t come back, but
that’s all. He was afraid she’d left the dogs somewhere and gone on to
New York. That scared him; he wanted to do his own confessing, and when
he went out and heard the dogs in the lot next door he thought she had
tied them there. He was pretty well upset, but he went back to the club
and played bridge.

“That is Walter’s story, and I know that it is true in all the salient
points. When Sarah was still missing the next day he was worried,
especially when you found she was not in New York.

“But he still didn’t believe she was dead, and he never thought of
Norton.

“When her body was found, however, he went almost crazy. He went to
Norton and Norton was shocked and grieved. Walter just didn’t understand
it, that’s all. And when the sword-stick disappeared he began to suspect
Jim Blake.

“Only why would Blake kill her? Had she shown him that will and let him
believe it was genuine? And had Blake done it, in a passion of anger or
to secure the will? It was the only answer he had, and we have to admit
that a good many people thought the same way.

“The only person who didn’t was Mary Martin, and she suspected Norton
from the start. She’d loathed the scheme from the moment she learned
about it, the will and all of it.

“But Florence Gunther’s death showed Walter where he stood. I’m not
defending him for keeping silent, but it’s easy to see how he argued. He
could not bring the two women back, and how could he prove that Norton
had killed them? Norton was still protesting his innocence, calling on
high heaven to show that his hands were clean.

“Then you burned the carpet from the car, and Walter was all at sea. He
didn’t know where he was.

“But Mary knew, and Norton knew she knew, or suspected. She wasn’t safe
after that, so we have her taking Joseph’s revolver and keeping it by
her, and later on we have her going to New York to the Somers’
apartment.

“She went out on the Brooklyn Bridge that night and threw the gun into
the river. She felt safe, after some pretty awful weeks.”

“But why go to the Somers’ apartment?” I asked, bewildered.

“Because she saw this. She is quicker than Walter, and she believed what
he still didn’t want to accept; that Norton was the killer. She saw
Norton still holding on, searching Florence’s room after her death for
the records, searching this house over and over. And by the way, there’s
your ghost! It may be helpful with your servants!

“She saw too that Mr. Somers would have to go next, before the story of
that bogus will was uncovered, and that with Mr. Somers dead Jim Blake
would go to the chair. Either that or Wallie would have to tell his
story, and even then that mightn’t save Blake. Blake mightn’t have known
that the will was not genuine.”

“Inspector,” I said gravely, “I want to know who Norton is. I must know.
This is—well, it’s cruel.”

“I think it’s kindness,” he said. “I want you to realize this man first,
as he is. The craft of him, using Jim Blake’s name to get to Howard
Somers, and even dressing like him; telling Mr. Somers the proofs of
Jim’s guilt, and promising for a thousand dollars to keep certain things
to himself; getting Mr. Somers into his study to write that check, and
putting poison into the highball while he is in that study.”

“And that is what he did?”

“That is what he did. And I don’t mind saying that it was that check,
which we found in his box, which completed the case against him. He
couldn’t bring himself to destroy that check.”

He looked at his watch.

“Now—I’ll hurry over this—I’m going to Walter Somers again. His
father’s death drove him frantic. Again he had no proof, but Mary Martin
was certain. She had broken the glass and raised the windows—there’s an
odor to cyanide—and she felt pretty sure it was murder. And if murder
came out, the whole story came out. You can see why she tried to prevent
that.

“She called Walter on the long distance phone and told him, and he about
went crazy. But a confession then was a very grave matter; here were
three deaths as a result of that conspiracy, and one of them his own
father.

“He compromised with himself. He would see that Jim Blake got off; but
if he was acquitted he would let things ride.

“But the verdict was a foregone conclusion. He had to come clean to save
Jim, and Norton had to confess. For he knew now that Norton had got the
records. He had been over this house and he knew the cabinet. When the
clock dial cipher was read in court all Norton had to do was to come
here and get them.

“When Walter left the club, that night before the day when he was to go
on the stand, he had in his pocket a full confession of the murders. He
had taken it with him to force the murderer to sign it. He had
determined to get that signature, at the point of a gun if necessary.
But he hoped to get it, by letting Norton have a chance to escape. It
looked reasonable to him; if Walter went on the stand the next day it
was all over anyhow. As to the will, I mean.

“But I ought to say this. He and Norton were definitely out. There had
been furious trouble between them, and of course there was the time when
Walter had knocked Norton cold. Walter hated the very sight of the other
man, and he knew it.

“Walter picked him up in his car; and they drove out of town, Walter
talking, the other man listening. Walter was going on the stand the next
day, to tell all he knew. He was wary enough; he had his revolver. But
Norton, too, was prepared for trouble that night. He was too quick for
Walter.

“He knocked him out and nearly killed him, and then he took him to an
abandoned farmhouse out on the Warrenville Road and left him there,
tied. But it wasn’t to his advantage that Walter die. He drove the car
over the hill where we found it, and he carried off Walter’s revolver
and locked him up. But he went back now and then, although Walter was in
pretty poor shape when I found him.

“With Walter dead, Mary would tell the story, and he was through. He
went back now and then, looked after him a bit. Not much. Just enough to
keep him alive. But he had not been there for three days when we found
him, and he was mighty close to death.

“Of course it’s easy to say this now, but the case against Blake never
had satisfied me. You know that. I gave you my reasons before. All along
there have been some things that didn’t quite fit. Why would Jim Blake
invent a man in evening dress? Well, the answer to that is easy. He was
not inventing it. He _saw_ a man in evening dress. But he said this
man’s face was turned down the hill. Now that’s not possible. A man
doesn’t run rapidly along a bushy hillside in the dark without looking
where he is going.

“So I decided that this man, conceding that Mr. Blake saw a man, was
some one he knew and wouldn’t mention. And after Howard Somers’ death, I
began to wonder if it wasn’t Somers.

“But that didn’t get me very far, and to add to the confusion, Joseph is
shot. Jim Blake is in jail, Mr. Somers is dead and Walter’s missing. And
still Joseph gets shot! I’ll admit that I thought it possible at the
time that Walter had done it. There was some underneath story, and
Joseph either suspected or knew something. It was pretty clear to me
that Joseph had had to help Walter out of the house the night he broke
in.

“And I had had a theory that Walter knew a good bit about that attack on
him at the top of the back stairs.

“Then there were some queer things about the shooting. Joseph was
sitting in the pantry with the shades drawn, ‘because it was safer,’ but
he tells some cock and bull story about dropping off to sleep, and that
with the kitchen door standing wide open!

“It looked fishy to me, and as I say I thought of Walter Somers. He had
had a revolver when he left, and of course at that time I didn’t know
the rest of the story. So it was for Walter’s footprints that I looked
the next morning, around the grounds and down the hill. But I didn’t
find them. I found something that I couldn’t make out.

“It looked to me as though a woman had climbed that hill the night
before, and gone back the same way. You’ll remember that it had been
raining, and the ground was soft. Certainly a woman had come up that
hillside, walked past the garage and through the shrubbery toward the
kitchen door. And she had gone back the same way, except that she went
out the front door and around back along the opposite side of the house
from where the three of you were.

“But here was the queer thing. It was a heavy-ish woman, moving slowly,
and she walked on the outsides of her feet. I’d seen prints like that
before.

“Well, I had two choices, and I took the wrong one. Young Carter had
been in the house at the time the shot was fired, or close to it; he had
a revolver in his car, and he had a knife with the point gone, and that
broken blade fitted the bit I’d picked up on the steps back there. And
there were other things. He had an interest in that will and he was
young and strong. I don’t mind saying that I gave him considerable
thought.

“It was you yourself who put me on the right track. If it hadn’t been
for that message of yours about the Bassett woman I believe this
murderer, this cold and crafty assassin, would be free tonight, and not
where he is.

“But we had to move slowly. We had no proof; we had the story and the
motive, but what else? Not a fingerprint, or a track, or a weapon!
Nothing to hang the case on, and he knew it. We went through his
belongings with a fine tooth comb, and found nothing. We could jail him
for forging that will, but we wanted him for four murders!”

“Four?”

“Amos was murdered,” he said. “He was shoved into the river and he
couldn’t swim. _Because_ he couldn’t swim,” he amended that. “Four
murders and three murderous assaults, and we had nothing.

“Nothing that we could lay our hands on, anyhow. But it came to me one
day, sitting by Walter’s bed, that if this man would do all he had done
for fifty thousand dollars, he’d be likely to have kept that check for a
thousand; that if he had, we had him.

“We watched him after that, day and night. And at last he slipped up. He
slipped up today. He went today to the Commercial Bank to draw some
money. He had an account there in the name of Norton. And he had a box
there, too.

“We had the bank open that box tonight, and we found that check there;
the check, and the duplicate copy of the will Sarah Gittings carried
hidden the night she was killed.

“So we got him. We’d had his house surrounded, and he hadn’t a chance.
He walked out of that house tonight in a driving storm, and got into a
car, the same car he had been using all along; the car he used to visit
Howard Somers and the car in which he had carried Florence Gunther to
her death, under pretext of bringing her here to you.

“But he was too quick for us, Miss Bell. That’s why I say I bungled the
job. He had some cyanide ready. He looked at the car, saw the men in and
around it, said, ‘Well, gentlemen, I see I am not to have my
holiday——’”

“Holiday! You’re not telling me——”

“Quietly, Miss Bell! Why should you be grieved or shocked? What pity
have you for this monster, whose very wife crawled out of her deathbed
to end his wickedness?”

“He is dead?”

“Yes,” he said, “Joseph Holmes is dead.”

And with that I believe that I fainted.

_
