

We had lived together so long, the five families in Crescent Place, that
it never occurred to any of us that in our own way we were rather
unique. Certainly the older people among us did not realize it; and I
myself was rather shocked when Helen Wellington, after she married Jim
and came there to live, observed that we all looked as though we had
walked out of an album of the nineties.

“Including that iron clamp the photographers used to use to hold the
heads steady,” she said. “You’re a stiff-necked lot, if ever I saw any.”

I dare say she was right. Not long ago I was looking over the old red
plush album which played such an important part in solving the crimes of
which I am about to tell, and I found something or other of most of us
there, especially of the women: Mrs. Talbot’s faint mustache, Miss
Lydia’s spit curls, Emily Lancaster’s enormous pompadour, Mother’s
pinned-on braids and Mrs. Dalton’s square-cut Lillie Langtry bangs.

Even the hats were not unlike the ones which most of the Crescent still
wears; those substantial hats, pinned high on their wearers’ heads, by
which at St. Mark’s on a Sunday morning it was as easy to pick out our
pews as to discover a palm oasis in a desert.

Just how unique we were, however, none of us, including Helen Wellington
herself, probably realized until after our first murder. Then, what with
police and newspaper men digging about our intermingled roots, it began
to dawn on me that we were indeed a strange and perhaps not very healthy
human garden.

Long ago Crescent Place was merely a collection of fine old semi-country
houses, each set in its own grounds, and all roughly connected by a
semicircular dirt road. Then the city grew in that direction, the dirt
road was paved, and to protect themselves the owners built a gate at the
entrance and marked it “private.” The gate was never closed, of course;
it was a gesture of dignified privacy and nothing more. The piece of
empty ground which the road enclosed, and on which our houses faced, was
common property, and in the course of time was planted like a small park
at our mutual expense. Long ago it had been a part of a large empty area
on which we had grazed our cows, and so now this glorified fragment was
still called the Common.

The five houses face toward the Common, and were originally some
considerable distance apart. Here and there additions have rather
lessened this distance, but each house still retains that which it
values above all price, its privacy and seclusion. When by the additions
I have mentioned or for other reasons this in the past has been found
threatened, a campaign of tree and shrubbery planting has at once been
instituted; so that for more than half the year, save for certain weak
spots in our defenses, we resemble nothing so much as five
green-embattled fortresses.

We have these weak spots, however. One window of my own bedroom, for
example, still commands an excellent view of certain parts of the house
on our right, and from the end of our guest wing we have more than a
glimpse of the one on the left. Both of which outlook posts, as well as
the ones upstairs which command our own garage, were to play their own
part in our tragedies. But in the main, until Thursday August the
eighteenth of last year at four o’clock in the afternoon, each of the
five houses had successfully for forty years or more preserved its
seclusion and its slightly arrogant detachment from the others and from
the world; had been neighborly without being intimate, had fought
innovation to the last ditch—Helen Wellington maintaining that the last
hatpin in the world with a butterfly top was the one Lydia Talbot still
wore—and was still placidly unaware of much more of the living world
than it could see through the gate onto Liberty Avenue.

My mother and I live in the center house, and thus almost directly face
the little Common and the gate beyond it. Mother is still in deep
mourning for my father, who has been dead for twenty years, and later
on, when things began to happen, I was shocked to hear her described as
the eternal widow draped in crêpe, and myself as a youngish spinster—at
twenty-eight!—who had been abnormally repressed and was therefore by
intimation more or less psychopathic as a result.

This was the same tabloid which as our murders went on discovered that
there were exactly thirteen people living on the Crescent, not counting
the servants, and under the title The Unlucky Number ran an article a
day for thirteen days on one or the other of us.

Yet the fact remains that of all the five houses along the Crescent ours
was later proved to be the most normal, although we were to have our
fair share of trouble and even horror. And that the next in normality
and the first in peaceful and ordered living was the Lancaster house
next door to us; until on that August afternoon last year old Mrs.
Lancaster was murdered in such hideous fashion.

The Lancaster house lay to the right of us. The family consisted of old
Mr. Lancaster, his wife, a bedridden invalid, and his two stepdaughters,
Emily and Margaret. But so long ago had this second marriage taken place
that no one seemed to remember the fact; not even the stepdaughters
themselves, now staid middle-aged women. They were devoted to their
stepfather, whose name they had taken, and the entire life in the house
centered on the small, rather dominant and not too agreeable elderly
invalid in her wide bed on the second floor.

Beyond the Lancaster house and nearest the gate on its side was the
Talbots’, and we had known them so long that Mrs. Talbot’s eccentricity
was as much a part of her as her fall collection of dahlias or her
ancient faded sables. Her mania, if one may call it that, was in locking
everything up and keeping the keys. Miss Mamie, our local visiting
dressmaker, said that she sat all day crocheting with these keys in her
lap, and so she was constantly having new fronts put in her dresses! She
was a big woman with a faint mustache and a booming voice, all of which
made her peculiarity more marked. But as I say, habit had accustomed us
to it, and the only time we ever remembered it was when she went asleep
on her good ear and so could not admit her son George when he was out
late at night.

Then it was necessary for her sister-in-law, Lydia, to rouse her and get
a key. She would come down, her spit curls stiffly set and tied with a
bandage, and admit him. Or if she too did not waken George would try the
rest of us. There was hardly a house in the Crescent which had not given
him a bed on one night or another when he was unable to awaken his
mother, or when she had decided not to let him in at all.

The fact remains, however. The moment George Talbot left his bedroom its
door was locked and the key taken to the old lady; and the same thing
was done by Lydia Talbot, a perfect specimen of the dependent female of
the nineties. Even the servants on their way downstairs left their keys
in a basket outside her door, and a very good housemaid was dismissed
once for forgetting to do so.

There was no Mr. Talbot. There had been, for one day when I was a little
girl I found in the loft of the old stable on their lot a dreadful
staring crayon portrait of a man with black hair mostly roached and a
heavy black mustache; and George had said it was his father. Being
utterly unable to associate it with a living man, after that I always
felt that Mrs. Talbot had been married to a crayon enlargement, and when
ultimately it disappeared entirely I had a strange feeling that George
was suddenly fatherless!

On our left were the Daltons, a middle-aged couple who had not spoken
directly to each other for twenty years. Nobody knew what the trouble
was, and we accepted them as calmly as the others. Twice a year they
asked us all in for tea, and it was quite usual to have Mr. Dalton go to
his wife’s tea table and say politely to whoever stood by:

“Will you ask Mrs. Dalton for a second cup for me, please?”

Or to have Mrs. Dalton perhaps reply:

“I’m sorry. Will you tell him I have just sent out for some fresh tea?”

He was a big man, and still handsome in a florid fashion. The money was
hers, and like many rich wives she was supposed to be niggardly with
him, and it was said that that was at the root of their trouble. He had
given up even the pretense of business since the depression, and spent a
good bit of time tinkering with his car in their garage. But he was
often lonely, I know. I used to see him talking to the butler now and
then, out of sheer necessity for speech.

Mrs. Dalton was small, pretty, birdlike, and always slightly
overdressed. Of the older women on the Crescent she was the only one who
pretended to any sort of fashion, and I well remember the day she
appeared at our house in her first short skirt! Mother gave one shocked
look at her legs and from that moment on never glanced lower than her
chin. But not one of us ever guessed, until our lives were thrown into
chaos by the strange occurrences of last August, that Laura Dalton was
still wildly and jealously in love with her husband.

The last house, nearest the gate on our left, was the Wellingtons’, and
they provided us with our only gaiety and with plenty of excitement.
They were younger, for one thing; Jim Wellington had inherited the place
on his mother’s death. But they were always threatening divorce. One day
Mary, our elderly cook, would report to us for the morning orders with
the statement:

“She left last night. Called a taxicab and took her trunk.”

And by “she” we always knew whom was meant. Or again:

“Mr. Wellington, he lit out this morning. Gone to his club to live.”

They would effect a reconciliation, of course, and celebrate it with a
party. Pretty lively parties, they were, too. Sometimes after Mother had
gone to bed I would slip out and listen to the noise, or look in at a
window. Sometimes I would see Helen Wellington on the dark porch with
some man or other, in a dress which, as Miss Mamie would say, was cut
clear down to nature. But Mother never let me go to these parties. She
considered Helen a bad influence and a hussy, and she deplored both her
morals and her housekeeping.

These were the five houses on the Crescent, and the people who occupied
them on that appalling August afternoon of last year. People and houses,
we were united by the old road in front of us which was now a street, by
the grapevine path at the rear, and by a sort of mutual seclusion which
more and more shut away the outside world.

To this world we made few concessions. Mrs. Talbot’s basques and cameo
jewelry were taken for granted as much as Mother’s crêpe or Emily
Lancaster’s high pompadour built over a cushion of net and wire. The
suspicious bulges on Lydia Talbot’s thin figure we accepted as the
curves of nature and not of art, and on Monday, which was of course the
Crescent washing day, our clothes lines at the rear showed row on row of
self-respecting but hardly exotic undergarments.

I remember meeting Helen Wellington on the back path shortly after her
marriage, and seeing her stare at the Lancaster washing. She caught me
by the arm.

“Listen!” she said, in her quick staccato voice. “Do they all wear
things like that?”

“Most of them. You see, they always have.”

“Do you?”

“Not always. But I wash them myself.”

She gave me a sharp glance.

“Pretty well buried alive, aren’t you?” she said. “Nothing ever has
happened and so nothing ever will! Why don’t you get out? Beat it?
You’re still young. You’re not bad looking.”

“Beat it? Where to? I couldn’t even sell mothballs!”

“You _would_ think of mothballs!” She cast a quick appraising glance
about her. “Well, you never can tell. The older the house the better it
burns! You may all go up like a tinder box some day. It isn’t natural.”

“What isn’t natural?”

“This peace; this smug damnable peace. It’s degenerating.”

Whereupon she lit the first cigarette ever smoked by a woman in that
vicinity, and moved along the path. The last I saw of her she was
standing in fascinated awe, gazing unabashed at a row of long-sleeved
nightdresses and Mr. Lancaster’s long cotton underdrawers.

She was right in her prophecy, of course. But it was six years before it
came true. Six years almost to a day until the match was applied to our
tinder box and old Mrs. Lancaster, alone in her bed in the big front
room of the white Colonial house, was brutally and savagely done to
death with an axe.




                                   II


As I have said, one of the windows in my bedroom on the second floor
commands a view of a part of the Lancaster house. That is, I can see
from it all of the roof, a part of the second story and a small side
entrance door which opens onto the wide strip of lawn with flower
borders which separates the two houses. This area belongs, half to the
Lancasters and half to us, and a row of young Lombardy poplars forms the
dividing line.

At four o’clock that Thursday afternoon, then, I was sitting at this
window sewing. Mother had just started for a drive, and old Eben, the
gardener for all the five properties, was running his lawn mower over
the lawn, the cut tips of the grass marking a small green cascade just
ahead of it. When the sound ceased I glanced up, to find Eben mopping
his face with a bandanna handkerchief, and in the sudden silence to hear
a distant shriek.

Eben heard it too, and I can still see him standing there, the
handkerchief held to his neck, staring over it at the Lancaster house
and holding tight to the handle of his mower. How long he stood I do not
know, for now the shriek was repeated, but nearer at hand; and the next
moment Emily Lancaster, the elder of the old lady’s two daughters,
stumbled out of the side door, screamed again, ran across the lawn
toward Eben and then collapsed in a dead faint almost at his feet.

So rapidly had all this happened that Eben was still holding to the
mower and to his handkerchief. When I got to them, however, he was
stooping over her and trying to raise her.

“Let her alone, Eben,” I said impatiently. “Leave her flat. And see what
has happened.”

“I reckon the old lady has passed on,” he said, and moved rather
deliberately toward the side door. But before he reached it a sort of
pandemonium seemed to break loose in the house itself. There were
squeals from the women servants, and hysterical crying, distinct because
of the open windows; and above all this I could hear Margaret
Lancaster’s voice, high pitched and shrill.

Even then I believed as Eben did, that the old lady had died; and I
remember thinking that there was an unusual amount of excitement for
what had been expected for years anyhow. My immediate problem, however,
was Miss Emily, lying in her spotless white on the path, her high
pompadour slipped to one side and her face as white as her dress.

Eben had disappeared into the house by the side door, and there was
nothing I could do until help came. I had expected him to send that
help, but after perhaps two or three minutes I heard someone run across
the front porch and out into the street, and I saw that it was Eben. He
had apparently forgotten us, for he stood there for a second staring
right and left and then set off, running again, toward the gate to the
Crescent.

I knew then that there was something terribly wrong, and I tried to
rouse Emily.

“Miss Emily!” I said. “Listen, Miss Emily, can’t you sit up?”

But she did not move, and I stared around helplessly for someone to
assist me. It was then that I saw Jim Wellington. It looked as though he
had come out of the Lancasters’ side door, although I had not heard the
screen slam; and I have not lived all my life beside that door without
knowing that it can slam.

At first I thought he had not noticed us. He was moving rapidly toward
the back of the property, where a path connected the rears of all the
houses. Our grapevine telegraph line, Bryan Dalton called it, because
the servants used it to go from one house to another and to carry all
the news. Then I felt that he must have seen us, for I in my pale dress
and Miss Emily in white must have stood out like two sore thumbs.

“Jim!” I called. “Jim Wellington! Come here.”

He turned then and came toward us. Like the screen door, I have known
him all my life and been fond of him; too fond once, for that matter.
But never have I seen him look as he looked then. His face was gray, and
he seemed slightly dazed.

“I need help, Jim. She’s fainted.”

“Who is it? Emily?”

“Yes.”

He hesitated, then came closer and leaned over her.

“You’re sure she’s not hurt?”

“I don’t know. She didn’t seem to fall very hard. She just slid down.
What on earth has happened, Jim?”

But as Miss Emily moved then and groaned, he straightened up and shook
his head for silence.

“She’s coming to,” he said. “Better tell them where she is. I have to
get on home.” He turned to go and then swung back. “See here, Lou,” he
said roughly, “you needn’t say you’ve seen me. There’s trouble in there,
and I don’t want to be mixed up in it.”

“What sort of trouble?” I asked. But he went on as though he had not
heard me, toward the back path and his house.

Still no help came. Apparently not even our own servants had heard the
excitement, for our service wing is away from the Lancasters’ and toward
the Dalton house. Five minutes had passed, or maybe more; long enough at
least for Eben to have reached Liberty Avenue and to return, for now he
reappeared on the run, followed by our local police officer. They had
disappeared into the house when Miss Emily groaned again.

I bent over her.

“Can you get up, Miss Emily?” I inquired.

She shook her head, and then a memory of some sort sent her face down
again on the grass, sobbing hysterically.

“What is it?” I asked helplessly. “Please tell me, Miss Emily. Then I’ll
know what to do.”

At that she went off into straight hysterics, that dreadful crying which
is half a scream, and I was never so glad to see anyone as I was to see
Margaret, hastily clad in a kimono and standing in the side doorway. She
too looked pale and distracted, but she came across to us in a hurry.

“Stop it, Emily!” she said. “Louisa, get some water somewhere and throw
it over her. Emily, for God’s sake!”

Whether it was the threat of the water or the furious anger in Miss
Margaret’s voice I do not know, but Miss Emily stopped anyhow, and sat
up.

“You’re a cold-blooded woman, Margaret. With Mother—!”

“Who do you think you are helping by fainting and screaming?” Margaret
demanded sharply. “Do you want Father to hear you?”

“Does he know?”

“He knows.” Miss Margaret’s voice was grim. “I told them not to let him
go upstairs.”

Naturally I knew or was certain by that time that Mrs. Lancaster was
dead, and as everyone had known how faithfully Emily had cared for her
mother, I could understand her hysteria well enough. She was an
emotional woman, given to the reading of light romances and considered
sentimental by the Crescent. Margaret had been a devoted daughter also,
but she was more matter-of-fact. In a way, Emily had been the nurse and
Margaret had been the housekeeper of the establishment.

The screen door was still unfastened, and together we got Emily into the
house and across the main hall to the library. Margaret was leading the
way, and I remember now that she stopped and picked up something from
the floor near the foot of the stairs. I did not notice it particularly
at the time, for the patrolman, Lynch, was at the telephone in the lower
hall, and well as I knew him he stared at me and through me as he
talked.

“That’s it,” he said. “Looks like it was done with an axe, yes. . . .
Yeah, I got it. Okay.”

He hung up and ran up the stairs again.

Suddenly I felt sick and cold all over. Somebody had been hurt, or
killed with an axe! But that automatically removed Mrs. Lancaster from
my mind as the victim. Who would kill that helpless old woman, and with
an axe? Confused as I was, I was excited but still ignorant when we
reached the library door; and it was not until I saw old Mr. Lancaster
that I knew.

He was alone, lying back in a big leather chair, his face bloodless and
his eyes closed. He did not even open them when we went in, or when
Margaret helped me get Emily onto the leather couch there. It was after
we had settled her there that Margaret went to him and put a hand on his
shoulder.

“You know that it was murder, don’t you, father?”

He nodded.

“Who told you?”

“Eben.” His lips scarcely moved. “I met him on the street.”

“But you haven’t been up?”

“No.”

“I’ll get you a glass of wine.” She patted his shoulder and disappeared,
leaving the three of us to one of those appalling silences which are
like thunder in the ears. It was the old man who broke it finally. He
opened his eyes and looked at Emily, shuddering on the couch.

“You found her?” he asked, still without moving.

“Yes. Please, father, don’t let’s talk about it.”

“You didn’t hear anything?”

“No. I was dressing with my door closed.”

“And Margaret?”

“I don’t see how she could. She was taking a bath. The water was running
when I called her.”

Margaret brought in a glass of port wine, and he drank it. Always small,
he seemed to have shrunk in the last few minutes. A dapper little man,
looking younger than his years, he was as much a part of the Crescent as
Mrs. Talbot’s dahlias, or our own elm trees; a creature of small but
regular habits, so that we could have set our clocks by his afternoon
walk, or our calendars by his appearance in his fall overcoat.

But if he was stricken, I imagine that it was with horror rather than
grief. After all, a man can hardly be heartbroken over the death of a
wife who has been an exacting invalid for twenty years or so, and a
bedridden one for ten.

The wine apparently revived him, for he sat up and looked at the two
women, middle-aged and now pallid and shaken. It was a searching look,
intent and rather strange. He surveyed Emily moaning on the couch, a
huddled white picture of grief. Then he looked at Margaret, horrified
but calm beside the center table, and clutching her flowered kimono
about her. I do not think he even knew that I was in the room.

Apparently what he saw satisfied him, however, for he leaned back again
in his chair and seemed to be thinking. I was about to slip out of the
room when he spoke again, suddenly.

“Has anyone looked under the bed?” he said.

And as if she had been touched by an electric wire Emily sat up on the
couch.

“Under the bed? Then you think——?”

“What else am I to think?”

But no one answered him, for at that moment a police car drove up; a
radio car with two officers in it, and a second or so later another car
containing what I now know were an Inspector from Headquarters and three
members of the Homicide Squad.




                                  III


I was still shocked and incredulous when I went out into the hall and
watched that small regiment of policemen as they trooped silently up the
stairs. The clock on the landing showed only twenty minutes after four.
Only twenty minutes or so ago I had been peacefully sewing at my window,
and the Lancaster house had gleamed white and quiet through the trees.

Now everything was changed, and yet nothing was changed. The hall was as
usual, the old-fashioned brass rods on the stairs gleamed from recent
polishing, and the men had disappeared overhead. The only sound I could
hear was of women softly crying somewhere above, and toward that sound I
found myself moving. It came from the upper front hall, and there I
found Lynch, the patrolman. He had rounded the three women servants
outside Mrs. Lancaster’s door, and he was holding Eben there also.

Two of the maids were elderly women and had been there for years; Ellen
the cook and Jennie the waitress. Only Peggy the young housemaid was a
comparative newcomer, but none the less shocked and stricken. All three
of them were crying with the ease and facility of people who know that
tears are expected of them, but as I looked Peggy pointed to the
doorsill and gave a smothered cry.

“Blood!” she said.

Lynch told her gruffly to keep still, and so we stood until one of the
detectives came out into the hall. He surveyed the drooping group
grimly.

“And now,” he said, “let’s hear about it.”

There was apparently nothing to hear. Ellen had been beating up a cake
on the back porch, and Jennie had been cleaning silver, also on the
porch for coolness. Peggy was off that afternoon, and had been about to
leave by the kitchen door when they heard Miss Emily screaming. None of
them had seen Mrs. Lancaster since Jennie had carried up her tray at
half past one o’clock, and all of them swore that all the doors, front,
rear and side, had been locked.

The detective took Eben last.

“Where were you?”

“Where was I when?”

“When this thing happened.”

“I don’t know when it happened.”

“Let’s see your feet.”

“There’s blood on them most likely. When Miss Emily ran out screaming I
thought most likely the old lady had passed away, so when the noise
began I came on up here. But Miss Margaret was here ahead of me. She had
the door open and was looking in. She told me to see if her mother was
still alive, but I didn’t need to go far to know that.”

“I can corroborate that,” I said. “Eben was cutting the grass near my
window. I saw Miss Emily come out, and I sent him in to see what was
wrong.”

I had to explain myself then, and what I had seen from my window. He
listened carefully.

“That’s all you saw?” he asked. “Didn’t see anyone going in or coming
out?”

“No,” I told him; and suddenly for the first time since I had entered
the house I remembered Jim Wellington. What I might have done or said
then I hardly know now. I remember that my chest tightened and that I
felt shaky all at once. But the need did not arise. There was a sound
like a mild explosion from the death room at that moment, and one of the
maids yelped and turned to run.

In the resulting explanation, that a flashlight photograph had been made
inside the closed room where the body lay, I was asked no more
questions. The servants were dismissed and warned not to leave the
house, and the detective, whose name I learned later was Sullivan,
turned and went into the death chamber again.

I was left alone in the upper hall, but entirely incapable of thought. I
remember hearing Miss Emily’s canary singing loudly in her room and
thinking that it was dreadful, that gaiety so close at hand. Then I
went, slowly and rather dazedly, down the stairs and out the front door.

I have no clear recollection of the rest of that afternoon, save that on
the way back I met Lydia Talbot on the pavement staring at the police
car, with her arms filled with bundles and her face white and shocked.

“Whatever has happened?” she asked me. “Is it a fire?”

“Mrs. Lancaster is dead. I’m afraid she’s been murdered, Miss Lydia.”

She swayed so that I caught her by the arm, and some of her bundles
dropped. She made no attempt to pick them up.

“But I was there,” she said faintly. “I was there this afternoon. I took
her some jellied chicken, just after lunch. She was all right then.”

In the end I took her home, cutting across the Common to save time, and
was glad to find that she had rallied somewhat.

“How was it—was it done?” she asked.

“I’m not sure. I believe with an axe. Don’t think about it,” I added, as
I felt her trembling again. “We can’t help it now.”

And then she said a strange thing.

“Well, she was my own sister-in-law, but I never liked her. And I
suppose they stood it as long as they could.”

She tried to cover that up the next moment, saying she was upset and not
responsible, and that the girls had been devoted daughters. But I
remembered the strange look Mr. Lancaster had given them one after the
other, only a short time before, and I wondered if he had not had the
same thought as Lydia.

That is all I really saw or heard that afternoon. Now I know something
of what went on in that shambles of a room upstairs in the Lancaster
house: of the discovery of the axe, thrown on top of the big tester bed
and discovered by the stain which had seeped through the heavy sateen;
and the further discovery that it was the axe from the Lancaster
woodshed, and that the only prints on it were old ones, later found to
be Eben’s, and badly smudged. I know that they took measurements of this
and that, and opened the windows and looked out, and that the medical
examiner arrived with a black bag some time later, and went upstairs as
briskly as though we had a daily axe murder in the Crescent.

When I say that I know all this, I mean that all the Crescent knows. It
knows the exact moment when Mrs. Lancaster’s body was taken away, the
exact moment when the police decided to hold Eben for further
interrogation, and the exact moment when Miss Emily toiled feebly up the
stairs and asked if there had been a key on a fine chain around her
mother’s neck.

“A key?” one of the detectives is said to have asked. “Anybody find a
key on a chain?”

Nobody had, and our information was that Miss Emily immediately began to
tear apart that dreadful bed, crying and moaning as she did so. But that
no key or chain had been found, either there or elsewhere; elsewhere in
this case being the morgue, a word which we avoid on general principles.

But the Crescent still knew practically nothing at all of what had
happened when I went home that late summer afternoon to break the news
to Mother. Save for Mrs. Talbot, who heard the news from Lydia and
rushed over at once, only to be summarily if politely ejected by the
police, the rest remained in ignorance for a good two hours, and the
Daltons even longer. The usual crowd which follows police cars had
either been daunted by our gates or was being held outside them by a
guard. Helen Wellington was away, having made one of her periodical
breaks. The Lancaster servants were being held incommunicado, and even
the reporters who had converged on the spot had, due to our planting and
our semi-isolation, failed to rouse any suspicion.

This is shown by the fact that I found Mother sitting on the porch when
I returned. She was fanning herself, and complaining of the heat.

“I wondered where you were,” she said rather fretfully. “Is Mrs.
Lancaster worse? I see a car there.”

This was not surprising, since by that time there were at least six cars
in a row before the Lancaster walk which led to the house. But I had to
break the news to her, and I did it as tactfully as I could. That she
was shocked and horrified I could see, but the Crescent carries its
emotions, when it has any, to its bedroom and there locks the door.
Never by any chance does it show them to the servants or to the casual
passer-by. She got up suddenly.

“I must go over at once,” she said. “They will need help.”

“I’m afraid the police won’t let you in, mother.”

“Don’t be absurd. They let you in.”

“They wanted to ask me some questions.”

“Precisely,” she said drily. “My only daughter is interrogated by the
police, and I am not even consulted! Besides, the Lancasters are my best
and oldest friends, and when I think of that lonely old man and those
two devoted daughters——”

Well, that is as may be. Mother had hardly spoken to Mr. Lancaster for
years, due to a disputed boundary line, and I had frequently heard her
refer to the daughters as two spineless women who allowed themselves to
be dominated by an unscrupulous and hard old woman! But the tradition of
the Crescent is more or less to canonize its dead, which is not so bad
after all.

I got her into the house finally, and there she asked for such details
as I knew of the crime. It seemed to me that she listened with singular
intentness, and that toward the end she relaxed somewhat.

“You say that all the doors were fastened?”

“The maids say so. You know how particular they are.”

“And Emily, when she ran out? She was fully dressed?”

“In pure white, mother,” I said, and smiled a little. “With not a stain
on it!”

She looked up quickly, startled and annoyed.

“What on earth do you mean by that, Louisa?”

“Just what you meant, mother,” I told her, and went across to my own
room.




                                   IV


I dare say every woman retains a sentiment for an old lover, even if he
is inevitably lost; retains it at least until a new one effaces him. And
at one time, ten years before, when I was eighteen and Jim was
twenty-five, we had been engaged. Nothing came of it, for Mother had
never wanted me to marry and leave her alone, and Jim made things rather
painful by accusing her of selfishness and declining to share me with
her. All in all it had been an unhappy business, and two years later he
had married Helen and had now been married to her on and off for eight
years.

The women of the Crescent had never much liked Helen. That was natural,
for she flouted their prejudices and was openly scornful of their
profoundest convictions. Besides she was young and attractive, a
combination they found it hard to forgive.

“A silly flighty little fool,” Mrs. Dalton said one day, shortly after
the marriage. And Bryan Dalton had smiled into his teacup.

“You might say to my wife,” he stated to the room at large, “that she is
very easy to look at.”

But Helen or no Helen, I carried into my room that late afternoon a
terrible and gnawing fear. It could not be long before the police
discovered that Jim Wellington had been in that house at or about the
time the crime was discovered, that he had slipped away without letting
his presence be known, and that I had concealed that fact from them.

I was bewildered, too. Why on earth run away from a thing like that, if
he knew what it was? Why not raise an alarm, shout, call for the police,
do any one of the normal things which normal people do under abnormal
conditions? I dressed—the Crescent would dress for dinner in the middle
of an earthquake—in a state of anxiety bordering on frenzy; and dinner
itself proved to be trying beyond words, for Mother had found a
grievance and was worrying it like a dog a bone.

“What I cannot understand, Louisa,” she said, “is that you did not come
back and tell me at once. I was back here by four-thirty. You seem to
think you owe me no consideration whatever.”

Perhaps my nerves were not what they should have been, for that upset
me.

“I’ve shown you every possible consideration for twenty-eight years,
mother,” I said; and what with one thing and another I burst into tears
and left the table, to find the Daltons coming up our porch steps, and
the three Talbots not far behind them.

It is not strange, to anyone who knows the Crescent, that the news had
not spread its entire length until the late extra edition of the evening
papers came out! For one thing, our servants, as I have already said,
provide our grapevine telegraph, and the Lancaster servants were being
held strictly incommunicado in the Lancaster house. For another, so well
has our planting grown in the last forty years or so, that we ourselves
are practically incommunicado unless we choose otherwise. Whatever its
faults, the Crescent considers it a sin to cut down a tree or prune back
its shrubbery.

The Crescent reads the evening paper after dinner, not before it. When
the paper is finished, it is carefully refolded and sent back to the
servants. And the Crescent never reads extra editions. When the
reporters from the various papers, having exhausted the patience of the
police, began to ring doorbells along the road, most of the occupants
were concerned with the sacred rite of dressing for dinner, and later
with the even more sacred rite of dining.

Not one of them gained access to any of the five houses. But undoubtedly
they told the servants, for Lizzie at Mrs. Talbot’s sent her down to
dinner that night in a pair of odd shoes, and the Dalton butler, Joseph,
forgot to place dinner napkins for the first time in twenty-five years.
But as our servants speak only when spoken to, it was fully seven-thirty
when this same Joseph walked into the library with a tray on which lay a
neatly folded copy of an extra edition of an evening paper and then
quietly retired. And it was seven-thirty-one when Mr. Dalton, leaping to
his feet, pressed the library bell for him again and said:

“Will you tell Mrs. Dalton that Mrs. Lancaster has been murdered,
brutally killed with an axe?”

Incredible all of it, of course, unless one knows us.

It was after half past seven then, by the time the Crescent was fully
informed, front and back; and only slightly after that when, having made
their polite inquiries and offers of help at the Lancasters’, the
Talbots and the Daltons gathered at our house. I showed them into the
drawing room, Mrs. Dalton mincing along on her high heels, Bryan Dalton
looking immaculate but shocked, Lydia carrying and dropping a knitting
bag, and Mrs. Talbot laden as usual with the heavy old-fashioned
reticule which carried her innumerable keys. George trailed behind them
all, uncomfortable and apparently feeling that, being more or less in
the presence of death, he should walk on his tiptoes.

Or perhaps for fear that because of his youth—he is only thirty—he
might be sent away if noticed. George and I still constitute the
children of the Crescent.

“Looks like a coroner’s jury!” he whispered to me. “Be careful. And
anything you say may be held against you!”

Actually it turned out to be something of the sort, with his mother
acting as a sort of star witness who regarded the entire catastrophe as
a direct result of old Mrs. Lancaster’s failure to lock herself in.

“Always told her that,” she boomed in her heavy voice. “Told her to lock
things up. Told her to have her bedroom door locked. Told her so this
very day. Her lying helpless in that bed, and all this crime going on!”

For, as it turned out, Mrs. Talbot had been the last one outside of the
family to see Mrs. Lancaster alive.

“Except the man with the axe,” she boomed, and all of us shuddered.

She was a kindly woman, in spite of her eccentricity, and for many years
almost her only outside contact with the world had been her occasional
visits to Mrs. Lancaster, who was connected with her by marriage. Mrs.
Lancaster’s first husband having been a brother of the crayon portrait.

We listened to her story with avid interest. She had gone at two-thirty
to sit with the invalid, as she sometimes did. Everything had been
normal at that time; the old lady lying quietly in the big four-poster
with the tester top, and Emily with her. It had been Margaret’s
afternoon off, for the sisters alternated that part of the day in the
sickroom, and she was shut away in her room.

Old Mrs. Lancaster, however, had been rather fretful. She was feeling
the heat, and as she did not like electric fans Mrs. Talbot had taken
the palm leaf fan from Emily and sat beside her, fanning her.

“Then I noticed that key she wore on a chain around her neck, and I gave
her a good talking to,” she said, or rather shouted. “In the first
place, I hate people who hoard gold these days, and I told her so. Then
I said that I was certain that more people than she believed knew she
was doing it, and that it wasn’t safe. But she told me Margaret had been
protesting too, and to mind my own business!”

That was the first time I had heard of any gold, and I sat up in my
chair.

“Where did she keep the gold?” Mrs. Dalton asked curiously. “I’ve often
wondered.”

“In a chest under her bed, of all places. I told her anybody might climb
the porch and get in a window, but she wouldn’t believe me. She said:
‘I’ve still got my voice. I keep telling the girls that. Emily’s so
nervous that she’s always hearing burglars on the porch roof.’ And now,”
Mrs. Talbot finished with a final boom, “I haven’t a doubt that it’s all
gone. Or most of it. George says it would be too heavy to carry away in
one trip.”

“Has anyone an idea how much she had?” Mr. Dalton asked; and looked at
George, who is in a bank in town.

“No,” George said. “She got plenty from us. I don’t know how many other
banks she looted. But does anyone know it is gone?”

“The key’s certainly gone,” Mr. Dalton said decidedly. “I saw Margaret
for a moment before we came here. They’ve hunted everywhere, there
and—elsewhere. The police are opening the chest tomorrow.”

I sat as well as I could through all the talk. It is characteristic of
the Crescent’s attitude toward what it calls the younger generation that
this evening was the first time I had known that Mrs. Lancaster had been
hoarding gold under her bed. But I felt a sense of relief. Here was a
motive at last, and vague as I was as to the weight of gold coins in
quantity, I knew that Jim Wellington had left the house empty-handed.

Lydia Talbot’s story differed little from that of her sister-in-law. She
too had seen Mrs. Lancaster that afternoon. At a quarter to two she had
carried over a small basket containing a bowl of jellied chicken and
some fresh rolls for the invalid. The front door as usual was closed and
locked. Jennie had admitted her and she had carried her basket upstairs.
She was sure Jennie had locked the door behind her.

“I sat with her for a while,” she said, “as Emily wanted to clean her
bird’s cage. We talked a little, but nothing important, except that I
thought she seemed upset about something. But she kept things pretty
much to herself, always. When Hester came I left. Ellen let me out by
the kitchen door.”

“What do you mean, upset?” boomed Hester, who was Mrs. Talbot. “She
wasn’t upset when I got there. Only peevish, and that was nothing new.”

Miss Lydia colored and looked rather frightened.

“I don’t know. Emily looked queer too. I thought perhaps they had been
quarreling.”

Everybody felt uncomfortable at that, and Mrs. Dalton chose that moment
of all moments to throw a bomb into our midst.

“The police think it was an inside job,” she said maliciously, and
smiled.

Her husband glared at her.

“Will someone have the goodness,” he demanded furiously, “to ask my wife
where she got an idea as outrageous as that?”

“From the servants,” she said, triumphant over her sensation. “While Mr.
Dalton was ringing the front doorbell tonight I went around to the back
of the house. I found Ellen in tears, and the others in a fine state.
The police have not only searched the entire house from roof to cellar,
including the furnace and the soiled clothes hampers and the coal
pile—there’s a man still moving the coal—but they actually got a woman
there and made the women take off their clothes! Or at least show what
they had on. To see if there was blood on them.”

The Crescent, as represented there, sat in a stupefied silence; not so
much because an inside job was suspected, but at the power of a police
force which could thus violate its privacy and offend its dignity.

It was only George Talbot who grinned.

“I’d better be getting home,” he said. “I had a nose-bleed yesterday,
and I have a little washing to do!”

But no one laughed. The picture Mrs. Dalton had drawn was too graphic.
For the first time in its existence the Crescent was threatened with the
awful majesty of the law, and it did not like it. It covered its fear
with talk, much of it rather pointless. Nevertheless, out of that welter
of talk and surmise, certain things finally emerged.

The afternoon at the Lancasters’ up to or about four o’clock had
apparently been quiet enough. The family had lunched at one, and at
one-thirty Jennie had carried up the invalid’s tray. Miss Emily had fed
her, and the tray had gone down at two.

At a quarter before two Lydia had brought her basket, too late for
lunch, and had been admitted by Jennie, who cautioned her with a gesture
that Mr. Lancaster was asleep in the library. As she had gone out by the
kitchen door shortly after her sister-in-law arrived, she had not seen
the old gentleman again.

At two-thirty Mrs. Talbot had gone in, remaining until half past three,
which was when Mrs. Lancaster took her afternoon nap. When she went
downstairs she found Mr. Lancaster awake and in the hall, and about to
take the brief half-hour saunter which was his daily exercise. Emily had
gone downstairs with her; and she had not only seen them out, she had
for Mrs. Talbot’s benefit shown her that the spring lock was on the
front door, and in order.

“I’m not afraid of the door,” Emily had said. “But I don’t like the
porch roof off mother’s room; especially just now.”

“It’s a fool idea anyhow,” Mr. Lancaster had said. “If a good bank isn’t
safe, then nothing and nobody is.”

He and Mrs. Talbot had then gone down the walk to the street together,
separating at the pavement; he going left toward Liberty Avenue and Mrs.
Talbot going back home. The last thing Emily had said was that she was
going up to put on a fresh dress, since Margaret intended to go out.
This fresh dress we all understood perfectly, since most of us dress
before four in the afternoon to receive the callers who are more of a
tradition of past social importance than present fact.

From that time, three-thirty or so, until Miss Emily came in that awful
fashion through the side door, no one knew anything of what had
happened. Emily had dressed, Miss Margaret had taken or prepared to take
her shower, Eben had cut the grass, Ellen had beaten up her cake, Jennie
had polished her silver, and up in the hot third floor Peggy had
prepared to go out.

Not once in all this, however, had anyone mentioned Jim Wellington’s
name. It was George Talbot who came nearest to it.

“It looks like a premeditated thing, all right,” he said. “Somebody who
knew that Mrs. Lancaster always slept at three-thirty, and that the
girls dressed then.” They are, of course, still the girls to us. “Also
that the old boy always took his walk at that time.” He looked around
the room mischievously. “Might be any of us!” he said, and grinned.
“Anyone along the Crescent, from Jim Wellington at one end to me at the
other. Of course he’d have to know the axe was kept in the woodshed,
too. That’s another point.”

“That isn’t funny,” said Bryan Dalton.

“Well, even you knew it was there, didn’t you, sir?” said George, still
grinning. “Matter of fact, I saw you near there early this morning.”

“And what were you doing there yourself?” said Mr. Dalton, red with
anger.

“Looking for a golf ball I lost yesterday,” said George, smiling and
unruffled. “And you, sir?”

“That’s none of your damned business,” Mr. Dalton shouted, and would
have continued in the same vein had not his wife hastily risen.

“Will someone tell my husband,” she said sweetly, “that it is time to go
home? _And_ that I do not like his language?”

Almost he spoke to her! We all waited breathlessly, for it was common
opinion among us that, the ice once broken, they would get along at
least amicably. But he remembered in time, gave George an angry glare
and stalked out. Mrs. Dalton followed him, tripping on her high heels,
and at the foot of the front steps he waited for her. I watched them
going side by side down the walk, in their usual silence; but it seemed
to me that night that it was less companionable than usual, if a silence
can be companionable, or if people can be further separated who are
already entirely apart.




                                   V


Mrs. Talbot remained that night after the others left. Lydia had pleaded
fatigue, and so George took her home. Probably the line-up of cars on
the street had changed since afternoon, but there were still several
there, and the Lancaster house seemed to be lighted from attic to
cellar.

I knew Mother and Mrs. Talbot were settled for at least an hour, so I
slipped on a dark cape in the back hall, and letting myself out the
kitchen door, took an inconspicuous route toward Jim Wellington’s.

This was not the grapevine path the servants use, but one even more
remote. Behind all our houses lies a considerable acreage of still
unoccupied land, which since the war we have called No Man’s Land.
Children used to play in it, but the Crescent frowned on that after some
one of us got a baseball through a pantry window. Now it is purely a
waste, where George Talbot and sometimes Mr. Dalton practice short golf
shots; a waste bordered on one curved side by our properties, on a
rather narrow end by the bustle and noise of Liberty Avenue, and
directly behind us, but some distance away, the rear yards of the modest
houses on Euclid Street. The Talbots’ old stable, now a garage for
George’s dilapidated car, bordered on it; as did the Lancasters’
woodshed, our garage and the Daltons’, and what was once the Wellington
tennis court but was now the weed-grown spot where Helen—to our
horror—took sunbaths in a steamer chair and a very scanty bathing suit.
She and Jim had no garage. Their car was kept in a garage on Liberty
Avenue.

This area did not belong to us, of course, but during the process of
years we had adopted it as our own. Thus a path led across it and
through some trees and an empty lot to Euclid Street, and was used by
our servants and sometimes ourselves as a short cut. Also Eben burned
there our dead leaves in the fall; and even the street cleaners, finding
their little carts overfull, had been known to slip back and
surreptitiously empty them there, sometimes setting a match to their
contents.

It was through this waste land that I made my way that night. Not too
comfortably, for there is something about a murder—any murder—that
disturbs one’s sense of security. However, I had a little light at
first. Holmes, our chauffeur, was evidently in his room over the garage,
for his windows were fully illuminated, and out in No Man’s Land itself
there was still the flicker of a small fire.

But beyond the Dalton place I found myself plunged into thick darkness
and a silence closed about me which the distant noise on Liberty Avenue
did nothing to dispel. Then something caught at my cape and held it, and
I stopped dead in my tracks and went cold all over. It was only a briar,
but that unexpected stop had done something startling and rather
terrible. It had enabled me to hear that someone was close behind me,
someone who had stopped just too late to save himself from discovery.

I never even turned to look. Pell-mell I ran on, blind with terror,
until I fetched up with a crash against the wire netting of the tennis
court and there collapsed onto the ground. When I dared to look back it
seemed to me that between me and the fire someone was standing and
watching; but he made no move and so at last I pulled myself to my feet.

It was a picture of demoralization I must have presented to Jim
Wellington when, a few minutes later, he himself answered my ring at the
door.

“Good heavens, Lou!” he said. “Come in and sit down. You look all in.”

I obeyed him in silence. To tell the truth, I was almost unable to
speak. He led the way, himself silent, back to his den and pulled out a
chair for me.

“It’s not very tidy,” he explained. “Helen’s gone again, as you know.
And as I find she hadn’t paid the servants for two months—” he shrugged
his shoulders—“they’ve gone too.”

Well, not very tidy was a mild way of putting it. But that night I was
not interested in Helen’s slovenly housekeeping. I was looking at Jim,
neat enough but tired and pale. I saw that he had changed his clothes.

“Aren’t you going to sit down?”

I shook my head.

“Jim, I was followed here.”

“By the police? Well, does that surprise you?”

“I hadn’t thought of the police. I thought it might be whoever killed
Mrs. Lancaster, Jim.”

He eyed me steadily.

“That’s very nice of you. Rather handsome, considering everything! But
it was probably the police. I’m expecting them. I suppose that you,
being the honest person you are, have told them you saw me there?”

“No.”

“Why not?”

“Well, nobody asked me, Jim, and so——”

He dropped his light manner, and coming to me, put a hand on my
shoulder.

“You’re a good girl, Lou,” he said, “and we were a pair of young fools
once. Well—I suppose Emily will bring it out before long, if she hasn’t
done it already. She was coming out of her faint when you called me.
Maybe not right away, but sooner or later she’ll remember. You see,” he
smiled down at me, “you can’t save a fool from his folly. Or a man from
his stomach,” he added cryptically.

When I merely stared at him in bewilderment he put me into a chair and
sat down himself.

“Here’s the story,” he said. “You can believe it or not; if you do
you’ll be the only one who will. I had a key to the front door, so I let
myself in. There was nobody about, and I went upstairs and found
her—like that! I went up to her room and opened the door, and—God! I
couldn’t believe it. The house was quiet. Old Emily was talking to her
canary across the hall, and the door into the old lady’s room was partly
open. Luckily I didn’t touch the knob. At least I don’t think I did.” He
laughed shortly. “But I didn’t stop at the door. I went in and looked
down at her to see if she was—She was dead, of course.”

“Why on earth didn’t you raise the alarm?”

“You’re asking _me_ that? Because I am God’s worst fool. We’d had a
quarrel; she’d been hoarding gold for months under that bed of hers, and
I got sick and tired of facing the bank people every week and getting it
for her. I was her messenger boy. The girls wouldn’t do it, nor Uncle
James. Too decent. So we’d had a row, and she—well, she threatened to
cut me out of her will. And,” he added with a return to the light tone I
hated, “this is no time to be cut out of wills, my dear Lou.”

“So you went back to make peace, and found her?”

“So I went back because I was sent for, like the good boy I am.”

“Oh, stop it, Jim,” I cried. “I can’t bear it.”

“Well, that’s my story, and I’m sticking to it. If my cousin Margaret,
who hates me like sin, will only acknowledge that she telephoned me this
morning to come out at four o’clock to see her beloved stepfather, maybe
I’ll have a chance. Otherwise I’ll get what the police so practically
refer to as the ‘hot squat.’ Meaning the chair, my dear.”

I got up, rather wearily.

“I’m sorry, Jim. I came here to help if I could. Even to get you some
dinner—” He made a gesture at that. “But you don’t want any help. I’d
better go.”

Then he became the old Jim again, kindly and considerate.

“I’m just shouting to keep my courage up, Lou. And I haven’t told you
the whole story. Maybe you don’t remember, but the sight of blood always
makes me sick. It does something to me, always has. But it’s too damned
ridiculous to tell the police. I think I’d have raised the alarm. God
knows it was the first instinct I had! But I was going to be sick. Can
you imagine it?” he demanded savagely. “Can you imagine a full-grown man
in an emergency like that rushing off to be sick somewhere? Well, that’s
what I did. And when Emily raised the alarm I was in the lavatory off
the downstairs hall, throwing up my boots! That’s a laugh for the
police, isn’t it?”

“They might believe it, Jim.”

“They might. It’s too irrational for a good killer to invent, I suppose.
And it happens to be true. You see, I couldn’t show myself after it was
all over. I had blood on my clothes. Not much, but some.”

“You could get rid of your clothes.”

“How? Burn them, and let the police find whatever’s left over? Nails,
buttons or what have you? No, my child. I know now exactly what a real
killer is up against. I’ve been down twice to start that damned furnace;
in August, mind you! But what’s the use?”

“I could take them with me. They’ll never search our house.”

“And have them take them from you as you leave here? Use your head, Lou!
Now run home and forget me and this mess.”

“Maybe later on tonight you could bury them, Jim? Out in No Man’s Land.”

He refused that idea too, and I remember standing there and trying to
think of some place where the inevitable police search would not
discover them. It is strange how little the average house offers against
that sort of hunt, especially for bulky objects.

“You haven’t a concealed closet for your liquor?” I asked at last.

“I have a closet; but if you think at least fifty people don’t know
about it, then you don’t know Helen.”

“Still it would give you time, Jim,” I pleaded.

Without a word he turned, and going to the bookshelves beside the fire,
took hold of the frame and swung it out. Books and shelves, it proved to
be a small door, and behind it was a neat liquor closet.

“Of course, once I hide the things I am committed by my own act,” he
said. “Still——”

“Did anyone see you?”

“In the house? No, I have my own key to the front door. Of course the
police know that now.”

“Or outside, on the way back here?”

“How do I know? We’ll have to take a chance on that. Luckily I left my
car here and walked there. That may help some.”

We made it without a minute to spare. I had drawn the front shades while
he was upstairs, and he was on his way down when the doorbell rang.
Luckily the hall was dark, and the front door solid. He slipped the
things to me through the stair-rail, and fumbled long enough at the door
to give me a minute or two. But I was trembling all over by the time I
had hidden the trousers and the shoes, and had swung the shelves back in
place.

He gave me a bit more leeway by stopping to turn on the hall lights
after he had opened the door. Then I heard him bringing in some men, and
although I dread to think of what the Crescent would have said had it
known, I was lighting one of Jim’s cigarettes when they entered.

There were two of them, an Inspector Briggs from Headquarters and the
detective, Sullivan, whom I had seen in the hall upstairs at the
Lancaster house.

They eyed me curiously when Jim presented them.

“Miss Hall, eh? Then you are the young lady who found Miss Emily
Lancaster in the garden?” This was from the Inspector.

“I didn’t exactly find her. I heard her screaming, and ran out. It was
Eben who got to her first.”

“I see.”

I was bracing myself for the next question, but to my surprise it did
not come. Instead he suggested that Mr. Sullivan see me home, and then
come back. Evidently he had no idea of letting Jim overhear what I had
to say. I had a horrified moment as I rose when I realized that in my
anxiety to hide the clothing I had overlooked that with Jim. What would
he tell them? Or deny?

But Jim settled that for me in surprising fashion.

“Don’t worry, Lou,” he said. “We’ll tell the truth and shame the devil!
And you can throw away that cigarette. I don’t think it’s fooled
anybody.”

Inspector Briggs smiled slightly, but his face altered as Jim walked
deliberately to the shelves and swung them open. “There’s the evidence,”
he said.

Sullivan took me out, and I came as near to fainting then as I ever
have, right there on the Wellington front porch.




                                   VI


Mother had notified Holmes that he was to sleep in the house that night,
on the general principle I suppose that having had one murder we might
expect any number of them; which was not so absurd after all as it
seemed that night.

But Holmes as a protection did seem absurd; a scared little rabbit of a
man, he trailed at our heels as we locked up that night, careful not to
get too far away from one or the other of us. It was from Holmes that I
first heard the theory of a homicidal maniac.

“I don’t mind saying, miss,” he confided to me, “that I’m just as glad
to be in here tonight. Somebody around here’s gone crazy, and that’s the
truth.”

“It would have to be a lunatic who knows all about us, Holmes.”

“Well, that’s not so hard to do, miss, with everybody living by the
clock, as you may say.”

“Except you, Holmes!”

He grinned at that. Mother still insists that the servants be in at ten
o’clock at night; but Holmes has an easy and unobserved exit by the path
across No Man’s Land, and I knew perfectly well that there were times
when he not only disobeyed the rule, but did not come back at all.

But I think now that Holmes tried to tell me something that night, that
his following me was not without reason. Later on he must have changed
his mind, but I often wonder what would have happened had he followed
that impulse. We would not in all probability have had our second
murder, for one thing. Also it might have brought into the open the fact
that all our servants knew or guessed a great deal more than any of us.

As I have indicated, however, the Crescent keeps its domestics in their
places, the result being a sort of tacit cabal among them; the backs of
our houses, so to speak, against the fronts. And Holmes had no chance
that night to speak. Mother returned before he had decided, and having
had the best linen sheets ceremoniously removed from the guest room next
to hers, installed Holmes there with instructions not to snore, and to
rap on her door if he heard anything suspicious during the night.

Poor Holmes! Unscrupulous he might have been, and was, but I always had
a sneaking fondness for the little man.

Incredible as it seems, it was only half past ten when I finally got to
my room, leaving Mother locked and bolted inside hers. It had been only
six and a half hours since I had seen Miss Emily run shrieking out of
that door and collapse on the grass, but it had been innumerable years
emotionally for me.

Not only the murder. Not only fear for Jim Wellington, possibly even
then under arrest. Alarmed as I was for him, even I knew that a man
could not be sent to the electric chair because he had stumbled on an
old woman dead in her bed. What also worried me was a sort of terror
that I still cared for him. Perhaps it was only sheer pity for his
danger, and because I had seen him alone in that empty disordered house,
with his servants gone because Helen had spent their money on the exotic
clothes, the perfumes and whatnot which seemed more important to her
than he ever was.

I knew as well as if I had seen her that she was out that night at some
club or roadhouse or hotel roof, dancing, and I felt that I hated her
for it.

This is not a love story, however, and perhaps here I should attempt to
tell what the police had discovered up to half past ten o’clock that
night, and to outline the Lancaster house itself for better
understanding. The first I learned a bit at a time over the next two
weeks, but the house I knew as well as I knew our own.

Indeed, for all practical purposes the two houses were the same. The
same builder had constructed them fifty-odd years ago, at the time when
elaborate scroll and fret-saw work decorated most pretentious country
houses; and later on the same architect had added what we called our
guest wings, removed his predecessor’s adornments and given the dignity
of both white paint and plain pillared porches.

The Lancaster house, then, is broad and comparatively shallow,
presenting its long dimension to the Crescent. On the lower floor a wide
hallway runs from front to back of the main body of the house; from this
hall the front door opens onto the porch, shaded with vines, while the
rear door opens on what was the old carriage sweep in front of the
long-gone stables, and is now a vegetable garden with the woodshed
beyond and shielded from the house by heavy shrubbery. As the Lancasters
kept no car, there was no garage.

[Illustration: =LANCASTER HOUSE=  =FIRST FLOOR=]

The four main living rooms of the family open from this hall on the
first floor, while a narrower hall runs the length of the floor, one end
opening by a door onto the lawn toward our house, and the other
connecting by a door with the service wing. The staircase rises, not
from the main hall but from this transverse one. Under this staircase is
the lavatory of which Jim had spoken.

Thus, entering by the porch and the front door, there is the wide hall
from front to back, bisected by the narrower transverse one. The
parlor—a word we still use—lies on the right, while Mr. Lancaster’s
library is on the left. Then comes the transverse hall, with the
staircase going up on the left, and an extension, rather narrower,
leading to the side entrance to the right. Behind this is the morning
room, done in chintz, where Margaret keeps her accounts and writes her
letters, and across the main hall the dining room, the latter to the
left and connecting through the pantry and underneath the back staircase
with the kitchen beyond.

A servants’ dining room and closets to the front of the house, the
kitchen, pantry, kitchen porch and laundry comprise the service wing and
connect through a door with the body of the house; while a rear
staircase, rather awkwardly placed to open onto the kitchen porch, and
thus separating the pantry from the kitchen, leads to what we call the
guest wing on the second floor, and then continues to the servants’
bedrooms on the third.

This rear staircase, playing a certain strategic part in our first
crime, opens on the second floor not far beyond the first landing of the
main staircase; for the second floor wing is on a lower level than the
body of the house. One who ascends the front stairs may thus look
through an archway along the guest wing passage, and then turn and go on
up the short flight of six steps to the hall and four large bedrooms
which are—or were—occupied by the family.

All these rooms and passages are large, with high corniced ceilings, and
the effect is one of great dignity and space.

[Illustration: =LANCASTER HOUSE=  =SECOND FLOOR=]

Practically the same arrangement holds upstairs; that is, the four main
sleeping rooms open on the broad hall, while the guest wing, with its
lower ceilings, contains two guest rooms to the front—almost never
used—with a connecting bath between them, and to the rear a sewing
room, a linen closet, a housemaid’s closet, and reached by a narrow
hallway, the entrance to the back staircase.

The servants sleep on the third floor.

Of the four main sleeping rooms, Mrs. Lancaster occupied the large
corner one in the front of the house; this being somewhat noisier and
more exposed to the sun than the others, but being by all tradition of
the Crescent the room belonging to the mistress of the house. Through a
bathroom it connected with her husband’s room behind, this space with
certain closets corresponding to the side hall below.

Emily’s room lay directly across the hall from it; also a front room,
she occupied it because with both doors open she could hear her mother
if—or when—she needed her at night. Behind this room, with the upper
part of the staircase-well between them, lay Margaret’s room, which was
over the dining room and at the rear of the house.

There was no staircase to the top floor in the main part of the house,
the only access to it being by the one in the guest wing.

What puzzled the police from the start was not the layout of the house,
but the seeming impossibility of any access to it. Always carefully
locked, with the hoarding by Mrs. Lancaster extra precautions had been
taken. Extra locks and in some cases bolts also had been placed on all
outside doors, and the screen doors and windows were provided with
locks. During Mr. Lancaster’s afternoon walks the screen on the front
door was left unlatched so he could admit himself with his key to the
main door, but the inside wooden door was carefully locked.

All these doors were found fastened when they arrived, with the single
exception of the side door which Emily herself had opened when she ran
outside. These included the front and back hall doors, the side
entrance, the one on the kitchen porch and another from the laundry into
a drying yard. The door to the basement was padlocked, and had remained
so since the furnace had been discontinued in the spring.

When the police arrived that afternoon, therefore, certain things became
obvious, outside of the bedroom itself. One was that while there were
innumerable doors and windows giving access to the house, none of them
had apparently been used. Another was that the kitchen porch, most
vulnerable spot since the women servants were constantly using it, had
been occupied ever since the luncheon hour: Ellen resting and later
beating up a cake, and Jennie the waitress polishing her silver at the
table there.

With the family shut in the library and the servants huddled in their
own dining room, the detective named Sullivan had at once made an
intensive survey of the lower floor, including doors and windows. He
found nothing, and at last went back to the death chamber itself.

“House is like a fortress,” he reported. “One thing’s sure; nobody got
in or out of it unless someone inside here helped him to do it.”

But he found the Inspector at a front window, gazing curiously at the
porch roof outside.

“Looks like he got in here,” he said. “Something’s overturned that
flower pot. And look at this screen!”

Sullivan looked and grunted. Margaret Lancaster always kept a row of
flower pots on her mother’s window sill. Now one of them had slid off
and overturned on the porch roof, and the screen itself was raised about
four inches.

“Might ask one of the daughters if this screen was like this earlier in
the day,” the Inspector said.

Sullivan went down to the library, and came back to say that the screen
had not been opened, and that Mrs. Lancaster had had a horror of
house-flies; that she would have noticed it at once.

The medical examiner had finished at the bed by that time, and the
fingerprint men were at work; and not finding anything, at that. The
medical examiner went to the window and, still wearing his rubber
gloves, tried to raise the screen from the top. But it would not move an
inch and he gave it up.

“Nobody got out there,” he said. “Might have tried it, however, and then
gave it up.”

They tried the other screen onto the porch roof, but it too stuck tight
in its frame. It was not until Sullivan had crawled out the front hall
window that they reached the roof at all, and that window he had found
closed and locked. The three men were puzzled. Then Sullivan stooped
suddenly and pointed to a small smear on the wooden base of the first
screen.

“Looks like blood here,” he said.

He straightened up and looked about him, then he creaked his way across
the tin roof. There, lying wilted but fairly fresh in the hot sun he
picked up two or three bits of newly cut grass. Just such grass indeed
as I had watched cascading from the blades of Eben’s lawn mower.

“What’s that?” said the Inspector.

“Grass. How’d it get here? There’s no wind.”

“Birds, maybe.”

None of them were satisfied, however. They went across into Emily’s
room, where her bird was still singing in the sunlight by a front
window, and tried her screens. They too were locked, but they opened
fairly easily.

“Anyhow that’s out,” said the Inspector. “She was in here herself,
dressing, when it happened.”

“So she says,” said Sullivan drily, and the two men exchanged glances
and went back across the hall.

Up to that time, oddly enough, they had not found the weapon. The
medical examiner had suggested a hatchet, but there was none in sight.
Then one of the fingerprint men happened to glance up, and he saw a
stain on the tester top of the bed. Somebody got a chair, and being tall
he was able to reach up with a clean towel and bring down the axe.

“It made me kind of sick,” said the Inspector later. “I’m used to blood
and all that, but an axe! And that little old woman not weighing a
hundred pounds! It—well, it just about got me.”

The discovery of the axe, while gratifying, was not particularly
productive, however. It was a moderately heavy wood axe, with the usual
long handle, but it bore only what looked like old and badly smeared
fingerprints. At the extreme end there were no prints whatever.

“Either wore gloves or wiped it pretty carefully,” was the comment of
the fingerprint man, after a look at it.

None of them knew then, of course, that it belonged in the Lancaster
woodshed, and practically all of them except Sullivan had veered to the
idea of a homicidal maniac. The brutality of the crime, its apparent
lack of motive, and as the Inspector said later, the utter recklessness
of the entire business looked like that.

“You’ve got to get your lunatic into the house,” was Sullivan’s comment.
“He hadn’t wings, that’s sure.”

They began to study the room once more. The chest under the bed had at
that time no significance for them, and the room was not particularly
disturbed. Mrs. Lancaster’s bed stood with its head against the wall
toward her husband’s room, and she had been found lying on the side
toward the door into the hall. On one side of the bed was the entrance
to the bathroom, which the police had found shut, and on the other a
closet door, also closed. Beyond the closet door in the corner was a
small chest of drawers, and one of these drawers was partly open,
although its contents, mainly the dead woman’s nightdresses and bed
jackets, were undisturbed.

There had apparently been no struggle, but that part of the room was a
shambles. Not content with the first blow, probably fatal, five or six
had been struck. In other words, as the Inspector said later, either
some furious anger or pure mania lay behind the attack; or possibly
fear, he added as an afterthought.

And, to quote him again:

“Well, there we were,” he said. “We had some clues, as you might call
them. We’d sliced that sliver with the blood off the window screen, and
Sullivan was taking care of those bits of grass. But there was nothing
on the axe or anywhere else. Also the house was shut, and shut tight. We
didn’t know about the hoarding then, but those lower floor windows and
screens had new catches on them, and everybody in the house swore—and
they were right at that—that every door had been locked and kept
locked!

“Take the outside of the house, too. Here was the gardener. Nobody got
past him, as we know, and I had my doubts about anybody except a
professional strong man being able to climb one of those porch pillars
with that axe, as you may say, in his teeth. Even the ground outside
didn’t help us any. Of course the earth was baked hard, but take a house
like that with grass right up to the building itself, and there’s mighty
little chance of a print anyhow.

“Then there’s another thing. I can understand that nobody heard
anything. It’s likely they couldn’t, with that canary wound up tight and
going hard. But it’s not credible that whoever did that thing wasn’t
covered with blood from head to foot, and yet beyond a mark or two we
spotted on that red hall carpet, probably from the gardener’s shoes,
there wasn’t a sign of blood outside that room.

“For those wounds had bled! Especially the one in the neck. They bled
and bled fast. Our medical examiner said that it would be practically
impossible to strike those five blows and then cover the poor woman as
she was covered, without the killer showing something. And maybe a good
bit. You see she’d been arranged. In a way, that is; the body was
straight in the bed and a sheet drawn up part way. And the mere matter
of getting that key meant stains, and plenty of them.”

The key had puzzled them, and Miss Emily’s frantic search for it. No one
explained it to them, and still of course they knew nothing of the gold.

“We were pretty much at sea about that time,” he acknowledged. “Either
it was an inside or an outside job, and there were arguments against
either or both! It looked like one of those motiveless crazy crimes
which drive the Department wild,” he added. “The least to go on and the
most showy from the press point of view! You could guess a crazy man
with a pair of wings, and you could say that a bird went crazy with the
heat and carried three blades of grass up onto that tin roof. But short
of that where were we? And nobody, axe or no axe, had climbed those
porch pillars. We caught a camera man shinning up a porch column that
night to get a picture, and the marks he left were nobody’s business!

“That’s the outside end of it. Then take the inside. Take the matter of
time as we figured it out that day,” he said. “It was four o’clock when
Miss Emily Lancaster ran out that side door and fainted on the grass. It
was three-thirty when Mrs. Talbot left and the old lady turned over to
take her nap. How much time had anybody in that house had to clean up a
mess and get rid of a lot of bloody clothes? Whoever it was hadn’t
burned them and they couldn’t hide them. We didn’t merely examine that
furnace; one of our operatives crawled inside it, and we had the devil
of a time getting him out!”

And this, so far as the police were concerned, was the situation up to
six o’clock that night when, Margaret being the calmest of the lot, they
showed her the axe. She went white and sick, but she identified it at
once as belonging to the household.

Normally it hung, from May until November, on two nails in the woodshed
at the back of the lot; a woodshed which was purely a shed, having a
door which usually stood wide open from one year’s end to the other, but
which Eben had noticed that day was closed. Investigation inside the
shed, however, revealed nothing to show when it had been entered. The
nails were there, the axe gone. Nothing else had been disturbed. The
narrow shelf where Miss Margaret potted her plants for the porch roof
and for the house in winter showed nothing save the usual crocks and a
heap of loose leaf mold.

There was no sign of blood, nor of any stained clothing, anywhere in the
shed.

It was the discovery of the ownership of the axe that finally convinced
the police that the crime had been an inside one. But nobody mentioned
the gold, or intimated that it was in the house until approximately ten
o’clock that night. Then Emily Lancaster suddenly broke down under their
questions and admitted that Jim Wellington had been near her when she
recovered from her fainting attack in the garden.

With that Peggy was recalled and broke down, and, as the Inspector would
have said, the fat was in the fire.




                                  VII


Out of that interrogation, of family and servants, certain statements
were finally collected by the police and put into shape. Copies of these
I now have, and as they illuminate the events of that day far better
than I can I repeat them here. I have stripped them, of course, of
inessentials and repetitions, but they are correct in every other
respect.

That of Emily Lancaster, as being the one who found the body, I give
first.

“Mother had been restless all day. She felt the heat terribly, but an
electric fan gave her neuritis, so I fanned her a good bit of the time.
Except that I slipped over to the library in the morning to change the
book I was reading aloud to her, I hardly left her at all. Indeed, I had
not even a chance to clean my bird until Lydia Talbot arrived after
lunch.

“Mrs. Talbot came in at half past two, and she relieved me of the
fanning for a while. We sat and talked, but I thought that something
Mrs. Talbot had said had annoyed Mother, and I was relieved when she
went away. I went downstairs with her, and we met Father in the hall and
they left the house together.

“I closed and locked the front door, and then went back to the kitchen
porch for a glass of ice water. Jennie was there, cleaning the silver,
and Ellen was beating up a cake.

“As I went up the back stairs I thought I heard the housemaid in one of
the guest rooms. It was a sound of some sort. I called ‘Peggy, is that
you?’ No one answered, so I looked into the guest rooms, but they were
empty.

“All that took about five minutes. I then went to Margaret’s door. I
knew she meant to go out and was afraid she had fallen asleep. I asked
her if she would listen for Mother while I changed for the afternoon,
but she said she was going to take a long shower to get cool before she
dressed, and that she had just seen Mother, and she was asleep.

“I went on forward to my room and took off my dress, but just then I
thought I heard Mother pounding on the floor with her stick, which is
the way she often calls if she thinks I am downstairs. There is a bell
over her bed, but it rings in the kitchen. I put on a dressing gown and
went across, but she seemed to be asleep. I know that she—that nothing
had happened then. I left the door partially open, and went back to my
room.

“I know the exact time, for I looked at my clock. I like to be dressed
for the afternoon by four, and it was not quite fifteen minutes before
four.

“I dressed as fast as possible. My bird is a great singer, and he was
making so much noise that once I opened my door and listened, for fear
Mother was awake. She did not like birds much. I heard nothing, and so I
finished dressing. It was almost four when I was ready.

“I went across to Mother’s room, but I did not go all the way in. I saw
her and I think I screamed. Then I ran back to Margaret’s room, but I
had to go all the way into the bathroom, for the water was running and
she did not hear me. After that I ran down the stairs and out into the
yard. I don’t know why, except that I had to get away somewhere.”

That was Emily’s story, told in fragments between attacks of hysteria,
and in some ways the most fully detailed of the lot. Neither in it nor
in the others, until the situation was forced, did any of the family
mention the dead woman’s hoard. Partly I dare say it was pride, the fear
that the newspapers would exploit the fact; partly it must have been
because of their unwillingness to involve Jim Wellington. And it must be
remembered that at that time the police still attached no significance
whatever to the wooden chest under the bed.

Margaret’s statement, which followed Emily’s, is less exact as to time.

“This was my afternoon off. By that I mean that my sister and I
take—took—alternate afternoons with Mother. Usually I go out on my
free days, but today was very hot.

“I rested and read in my room until I heard Mrs. Talbot and Father
leaving at half past three. Then I remembered that Peggy, the housemaid,
was having her afternoon off and that Mother had scolded her severely
that morning. She was a good maid, and I did not want her to leave.

“I went upstairs and spoke to her. She was crying, but at last she
agreed to stay. I was there only a few minutes, but as I used the back
staircase my sister may have heard me as she came up from the kitchen
porch. I did not hear her call, however.

“I was running the water when she—Emily—came into my room with the
news. She could hardly speak, and at first I did not hear her. Then I
threw on something, took a glance into Mother’s room and after calling
to the servants I ran downstairs. In the lower hall I met Eben, and the
two of us ran upstairs the front way while the servants hurried up the
back.

“Eben then closed the door into Mother’s room and started out to get a
policeman. He was running. I have no real idea how long all this took,
but at last I remembered Emily and went out to look for her. She was
lying on the ground, and Lou Hall was stooping over her.

“Lou and I brought her in. Father had met Eben on the street and been
told. We found him collapsed in the library, and soon after that the
police came.

“The axe is one belonging to us. It was never brought into the house,
and I have no idea how it got there. I know of no reason why my mother
was attacked, and I trust our servants absolutely. Two of the women and
Eben have been with us for many years. Peggy has been with us only a
short time, but she had neither reason nor opportunity to do this
thing.”

All of which sounds rather like Margaret, clear and unemotional
and—even in the police notes—told without Emily’s hesitation and
indirection.

Mr. Lancaster’s story to the police was much more vague. He was still
profoundly shocked, but in his account he was quite clear as to the
essential facts.

He had not been well for several days, and had not slept at night. He
and Mrs. Lancaster had for several weeks disagreed on what he called a
matter of policy, by which undoubtedly he referred to her hoarding of
gold currency; but which he did not explain that night. In her condition
he did not like to argue with her, but he had been considerably upset.

That day he had read all morning in the library. Before going in to
lunch he had made his usual noon visit to his wife. Emily was out, and
he had found Mrs. Lancaster silent and rather fretful, and had laid it
to the heat. But here he added, after a certain hesitation, that he had
been under the impression when he entered the bedroom that she had
hidden something from him.

Asked what it might have been, he said that he had no idea, and might
even have been mistaken. He was merely trying to remember all that he
could. She had not said anything to suggest that it might be true, nor
had he questioned her.

At noon he had eaten a light meal, largely fruit and tea, and had then
slept for some time. He had not gone upstairs at all, but being roused
by Mrs. Talbot’s voice as she started down, had got his hat and left the
house when she did. He had taken his usual walk, and had heard the news
on the street as he returned from Eben, who was running for a policeman.

Asked as to his usual walk, he stated what we all knew, that it was his
habit to go out through the Crescent gates, and to go past the hospital
and toward the shopping district a half mile away. For as the city had
grown and apartments had appeared on our horizon, so had sprung up six
or eight blocks of small shops to supply their needs. Even the Crescent,
which for a long time ignored them and did its buying downtown, had at
last recognized and patronized them.

His walk that day, he said, had merely taken him to the tobacconist’s
shop on Liberty Avenue and back to the gates, where Eben met him.
Unfortunately, and this is when the police determined to make a second
and intensive search of the house, there were two things about Mr.
Lancaster’s statement which set Inspector Briggs to thinking, and
thinking hard.

One was that he had stopped at a small and unimportant drug store, and
had there had a glass of coca-cola.

“As we happened to know,” the Inspector said later, “the drug store he
mentioned had been padlocked that day for an infringement of the
Volstead Act on the premises. Wherever he’d been, the old gentleman
hadn’t been there. And then came this girl Peggy with her story
and—well, we began to wonder. That’s all!”

For Peggy, seated uneasily on the edge of a chair in the dining room,
her eyes swollen with crying, had finally admitted that she had been
standing at her window overlooking the front street, had seen Mr.
Lancaster go out with Mrs. Talbot; and return five minutes later.

“I don’t want them to know I said so,” she had whispered, “but that’s
the truth.”

“You may be wrong about the time.”

“No, sir. I didn’t stand there more than five minutes at the most. Miss
Margaret will tell you that she came up to speak to me, and that I was
standing at my window then. Maybe she’ll know the time.”

“Did you tell Miss Margaret that Mr. Lancaster had come back?”

“I didn’t think of it. You see the old—Mrs. Lancaster had acted very
mean to me that morning, and I was thinking about leaving. I couldn’t
make up my mind. Miss Margaret came up to ask me to stay on, and I said
I would.”

The Inspector had heard Emily’s story by that time, and so he asked her
if she couldn’t be mistaken.

“Looking down from a third story window,” he said, “people look
different, you know, Peggy.”

“I’d know that old panama of his anywhere,” she said stubbornly.

“Lots of men wear old panamas. Was there nothing else?”

“He was getting out his keys. I saw him as plain as I see you. Besides,”
she added triumphantly, “anybody else but Mr. Wellington would have had
to ring the doorbell, and it didn’t ring. It rings on the third floor as
well as in the kitchen.”

But there is to Peggy’s credit the fact that she then set her small and
pretty chin, and that she said nothing more about Jim until she was
recalled later that night. That was after Emily had remembered that Jim
had spoken to me in the garden; and they brought the girl in, anxious
and with reddened eyes, and inquired if the man she had seen on the walk
could not have been Jim Wellington.

She shook her head obstinately, but they kept at her, and at last she
admitted that she had seen Jim that afternoon.

“Where? On the walk?”

“No. In the house. On the second floor.” And then seeing the Inspector’s
expression, she burst into a flood of tears.

But of course she had to go on, and at last they had a fairly coherent
story from her.

Shortly before four, feeling comforted by Margaret’s visit, she decided
to go out after all. She did not know the precise time. She put on her
hat and went down to the second floor, where in one of the guest rooms
there was a better mirror. She fixed her hat there, and then went out
into the hall. On her way to the back stairs, however, she heard someone
coming up the front staircase and saw that it was Jim Wellington.

He was bareheaded, and he was coming up quietly, but without any
particular stealth. Of one thing she was certain. He was empty-handed.

He did not see her, but passed the landing and went on up toward the
main part of the house. Certainly his presence there did not surprise
her.

“He always had the run of the house,” she said, rather naïvely.

She had not seen or heard him go out. She herself had gone on down the
back stairs, and she was there with Ellen and Jennie when the alarm was
raised. Not in a thousand years would she believe Mr. Wellington
committed the crime. He wouldn’t hurt a fly, and she didn’t care what
anybody thought.

“So there we were!” said the Inspector, summarizing the case later on.
“Wellington had been in the house and slipped away, and old Mr.
Lancaster had pulled a fake alibi on us! But if this girl was right, the
old gentleman came back at twenty-five minutes to four, and at a quarter
to four or about that Miss Emily finds her mother all right and goes to
dress. At four she discovers what has happened, and not more than ten
minutes after four Eben meets the old gentleman on his way in at the
gates, immaculate and not in a hurry, apparently on his way home, and
not more than five or ten minutes past his usual schedule!

“I don’t mind telling you that when I got home at three o’clock that
morning I took a triple bromide.”




                                  VIII


I suppose some of the Crescent people went to bed that night. That some
of the women stood before their old-fashioned bureaus, stuck their
brooches into their fat pin-cushions, unhooked dresses and hung them up,
slid off petticoats, unpinned false curls and braids and put them neatly
into their boxes, unhooked their tight laced stays and unbuttoned their
tight shoes; and having got so far, modestly slipped their nightgowns
over their heads and then removed the remainder of their clothing.

Or that some of the men also retired, after taking a final nightcap or
two, the material for which rumor reported that our chauffeur, Holmes,
surreptitiously supplied at a profit.

They had had the first real thrill of many years, and now behind them,
visible in the mirrors before which they brushed their hair or took off
their collars, were their wide beds with their bolsters, opened and
waiting for them, the starched linen pillow-shams of the day laid aside,
the day spreads neatly folded and the night spreads as neatly in place.
The single bed had no place on the Crescent.

Looking back, I can see them all with an understanding I lacked at the
time. I can see Mrs. Talbot, attended by her faithful Lizzie, removing
one of the black transformations which she wore rather as other women
wear a hat, and of which she claimed to have a half dozen or so. I can
see Lydia taking off her pads and hanging them up in a window to dry
after the hot day. I have seen them there myself, early in the morning.
I can see Emily Lancaster, filled with who knows what horrors, asleep at
last after the Crescent physician, Doctor Armstrong, had given her an
opiate; and Margaret walking the floor of the morning room downstairs
while police overran the house, listening for any approach to the
library and the old couch there, where far down under the upholstery she
had hidden something which she must somehow get out of the house.

And downtown, in an office in the City Hall, I can see Jim Wellington
sitting in a hard chair and being questioned, his key to the Lancaster
house on the desk, the Commissioner behind the desk, and the District
Attorney walking the floor and smoking one cigarette after another.

“What time was it when Miss Margaret Lancaster telephoned you?”

“Between eleven and twelve. Perhaps a little later.”

“And what did she say?”

“She said her father wanted me to go over the chest and see what was in
it.”

“A chest? What chest?”

Jim was astonished.

“Then they haven’t told you? The chest under my aunt’s bed. She had
developed a nervous terror of banks, and she’d been turning her fortune
into gold and currency for some months. Mostly gold.”

After that he had to explain the entire procedure, and they listened
spellbound. Here at last, they felt, was the motive for the crime. But
they were not satisfied with his explanation of why he had gone to the
house that afternoon.

“You carried no money today?”

“No. None whatever.”

“Then why did they send for you?”

“I’ve told you that Mr. Lancaster wanted the chest opened and
investigated. A sort of audit, I suppose.”

“Why an audit? Did Margaret Lancaster explain?”

“No, I haven’t an idea. None of them had liked the hoarding. I hoped it
meant the stuff was to go back to the bank. It was a fool idea from the
start.”

“This key the family was searching for, was that the key to this chest?”

“I don’t know what they were searching for,” he said rather sulkily. “My
aunt wore the key to the chest on a chain around her neck.”

“You know how much gold was in this chest. Is it your idea that robbery
was the motive for the crime?”

“I have no ideas about it at all. More than half the stuff was in gold,
the rest in currency. I’d say nobody could carry the gold away in a
hurry. It’s pretty heavy. As to the currency—” He looked at them. “Why
in God’s name don’t you look and see?”

But this, as it happened, was not possible that night. On the first
information from Jim that the chest had held a fortune in gold and
currency Inspector Briggs had been notified and the chest examined. Not
only did it show no signs of having been tampered with, but it was still
so heavy that the mere act of getting it out from under the bed was a
difficult one.

No key had been found, and the officers stood about the chest, eying it.
It was almost midnight by that time, but Sullivan went downstairs and
after getting an ice pick from the back porch, the only tool he could
find, was on his way back when he met Mr. Lancaster in the lower hall.

“I’m glad you’re here, Mr. Lancaster,” he said. “We want to take a look
into that chest under your—under the bed upstairs. I suppose you have
no other key to it?”

The old man eyed him stonily.

“The chest is not to be opened,” he said.

“But if there has been a robbery——”

“There has been no robbery. The chest contains a large part of my wife’s
estate, and will not be opened unless her attorney is present; perhaps
not until her will has been probated. I know very little about such
matters.”

Sullivan, I believe, went up the stairs, swearing softly. There was
apparently nothing to be done, since the chest itself showed no signs of
having been disturbed. He and the Inspector agreed to let it ride until
morning, and it was only the discovery of fingerprints on it that
changed their minds. These checked with none belonging to the household,
all of whom had been printed that evening, and were quite distinct; that
is, two hands had been laid on the lid, on either side of the lock, as
if to raise it.

They made no further attempt to open the box that night, but they put a
policeman in the room on guard over it; and at last after a rather acid
exchange with that office in the City Hall they went home, the Inspector
to take his bromide and Sullivan to ponder over those prints on the box.
For they were the prints of a small hand, and Jim Wellington was built
on large and fairly substantial lines.

That, as nearly as I can describe it, was the situation that night of
Thursday August the eighteenth, following the murder. The police had
gone over every inch of the house and were still examining the grounds
outside, but what they had as a result of seven hours or more of
intensive labor was the body of an aged and bedridden woman, almost
decapitated by the blows of an axe; the picture of a family, stunned but
still bearing with dignity its terrible catastrophe; and for clues a
bloodstained axe, two or three blades of grass, a smear outside a window
screen, a locked chest with some unidentified prints on it, and the
knowledge for what it was worth that both Mr. Lancaster and Jim
Wellington had been in the house at or about the time the murder was
committed.

I myself was faint and confused when I got back from Jim’s that night.
Mother was asleep, locked in and probably with a vase set on each of her
window sills so it would fall if anyone tried to enter by the porch
roof. Holmes was snoring lustily in the guest room, and the night air
was heavy and close, as though rain were in prospect.

I remember standing in the center of my room and looking about me. My
sense of security was badly shaken that night, and suddenly I realized
that I had given up everything else for it, had sacrificed to it my
chance to live and even my chance to love. And for what? That my bed
should be neatly turned down at night and the house run smoothly, with
fresh flowers in the proper season and the table napkins ironed first on
the wrong side and then polished on the right?

Perhaps I was hysterical that night, for I found myself looking at the
fat pincushion on my bureau and laughing. I had done that only once
before. That was when I came home from boarding school for the last
time, and tried to throw it out. I had done it, too; but the next day it
was firmly in its place again. I had laughed then, and then burst into a
storm of tears.

After that the pincushion was always symbolic to me. It stood for
everything: for no children to play with when I was small; for long hair
when I had wanted to cut mine; for fried chicken and ice cream at hot
Sunday midday dinners; for the loss of romance and the general emptiness
of life. And that night it squatted there as if to remind me that life
was short, but that it was still there; that it would always be there.

I did not undress at once. Instead I stood by a window, in that room
which corresponded with Margaret Lancaster’s, and thought over all that
I had learned. Out of the chaos in my mind certain things were emerging.
For one thing, everyone at the house that night had, either tacitly or
openly, suspected that the crime was essentially a crime of the Crescent
itself. Apparently George Talbot suspected Bryan Dalton, and Mr. Dalton
suspected George! Both Lydia Talbot and Mrs. Dalton, not to mention
Mother, seemed convinced that the answer lay in the Lancaster house
itself; and only Mrs. Talbot openly believed that it was a plain case of
robbery.

But that last theory seemed to me to be absurd. Even I knew that gold
was heavy. One did not pick it up and simply run away with it. Again,
none of us actually knew that the gold and currency were missing. And if
they were, I wondered vaguely if there had been time between Mrs.
Talbot’s departure and Jim’s entrance for the old lady to be killed, the
chest dragged out and opened, bags of gold or bundles of notes placed on
the porch roof, and the chest replaced under the bed.

For that at least we did know that night, although I do not remember how
we knew it, unless it was from Lydia Talbot, who had an uncanny way of
securing information. The chest was under the bed when the police got
there.

I wondered about Eben, only to dismiss him. It had been half past three
when I sat down at my window, and the sound of the mower had not ceased
once until that time at four o’clock when he stopped to mop his hot
face, and Emily had screamed in the house across.

No, not Eben. Not even any of our servants, so far as we could tell. All
of them save Peggy at the Lancasters’ had been with us for years on end.
All save Helen Wellington’s, that is, and they had packed and gone long
before the crime. I thought of Peggy and dismissed her; a slim soft
little creature, whom I had once seen walking with Holmes on the path
through No Man’s Land, but whose face showed only a sort of weak
amiability.

Then who else? Not a delivery driver for one of our shops. The Crescent
rigidly insists on delivery at the rear, and the Lancaster rear porch
had been occupied all the afternoon. Not Holmes, more recent than most
of the others, but driving Mother that afternoon until half past four;
nor the Daltons’ butler, Joseph, identified in the general canvass that
night by Laura Dalton as having brought her iced tea at a quarter to
four.

Who else but Jim, then? I began again that sort of desperate roll call
of the Crescent: Helen Wellington in town, and with no possible motive;
Mrs. Dalton drinking iced tea and Bryan Dalton in a pair of dirty
overalls working over his car in their garage, Mother out, Eben mowing,
Lydia gone shopping at two-thirty and sitting the rest of the afternoon
in an air-cooled moving picture theater, George downtown at his bank,
and Mrs. Talbot carefully locked in her bedroom and taking a nap.

It was Lydia Talbot that afternoon who had come nearest to making a
plain statement. “I suppose they stood it as long as they could,” she
had said, and then became uneasy and spoke of what devoted daughters
they had always been.

One thing was clear even to me, however. That was that the secret of the
Lancasters’ gold was not a secret at all. Probably from the moment Jim
Wellington had brought out his first canvas sack, with its neck neatly
wired and sealed with lead, our grapevine telegraph had sent the news
from one end of the Crescent to the other. There would be even no secret
as to where it was kept, with Peggy wiping the chest daily with an oiled
cloth—as we wipe all our furniture—and brushing the floor under that
tragic bed.

A dozen people knew, a hundred might have learned. And as I did not then
know of those screens which would not move, it seemed to me that some
one of those hundred could have scaled the porch roof, slid into the
room, opened the chest with the key after his deadly work was done, and
escaped with his treasure.

But how? In a car? No car had passed our house from three-thirty to
four. That I knew. Then who else? The street cleaner? I had hardly ever
noticed him. No one seems to notice the street cleaner, for some reason.
But now I recalled him, a tall thin gangling man in dirty white clothes
and helmet, who was a constant source of irritation to the Crescent,
which regarded him as especially employed by the city to brush its
leaves into heaps and then let the wind blow them about again.

Perhaps I was not entirely rational that night, but the picture of this
individual pushing his waste can on wheels persisted in my mind. After
all, if the Crescent knew of the gold and the key to the chest around
the old lady’s neck, then its servants knew it. And what the servants
knew he might know.

In a way, too, he had access to all our properties; for whenever his
cart was filled he had a way of trundling it back to No Man’s Land and
there, against a city ordinance, dumping and burning it.

He could have known not only about the gold. He could easily have known
about the axe in the woodshed. Moreover, so regular are our habits, it
might have been possible for him to know that Emily dressed while Mrs.
Lancaster slept between three-thirty and four, that the old gentleman
walked at that time, leaving the screen door open, that it was
Margaret’s afternoon off, as well as Peggy’s; and he could have seen
that the other two maids were in the rear of the house.

Moreover, the times coincided. While I had not noticed him that day, he
generally reached us by mid-afternoon. And again, it seemed to me that
his cart answered the question as to how the gold had been taken, if it
had.

I have told all this circumstantially, not because it made any real
contribution to the solving of our crimes, but because it explains how I
myself in a small way became involved in them. For shortly before
midnight, and while the Inspector and Sullivan were still gazing at that
chest as it was being dragged from under the bed, I was on my way to the
Lancaster house with my theory!

I got out of the front door without rousing anyone, but no sooner had I
set foot on the street pavement than a shadowy figure in a rubber coat
looked up and flashed a light in my face.

“Not allowed to go this way, miss,” a voice said.

“Don’t be absurd. I want to see Inspector Briggs.”

“I don’t think he’ll see you. He’s busy.”

“Nevertheless I intend to try,” I said firmly; and with that he fell
back, although he followed me all the way. At the Lancaster walk he
stopped.

“I’ll be here when you come out,” he told me. “It isn’t a healthy
neighborhood just now for young ladies alone.”

With which cheerful remark he lighted a cigarette and lounged away.

The Lancaster house was more fully lighted than I had realized until I
stood before it. Saving of lights is one of the Crescent’s pet
economies, although most of us are safely beyond want, and it is an
actual fact that the house in front of me, blazing from attic to cellar,
was more indicative to me of the sharp break in our lives than anything
else I had so far seen.

For a time, however, it looked as though I might not be admitted.

There was an officer on the porch, and he asked me sharply what I
wanted.

“To see Inspector Briggs,” I told him. “Or Mr. Sullivan. He’s a
detective, I believe.”

“The Inspector’s upstairs, miss,” he said doubtfully. “But I don’t think
he’ll see you.”

“Tell him I have something to say that may be important. I am Miss Hall.
I live next door.”

He went in then, and I stood on the porch waiting. The expected storm
was closer now, and I remember distant thunder and a thin spatter of
rain on the roof overhead. Then the front door opened again, but it was
not the policeman. It was Margaret Lancaster.

“Louisa?” she said, in a whisper.

“I’m here, Miss Margaret.”

“Quick, take this,” she said. “Have you a pocket? If you haven’t, slip
it into your stocking. And for God’s sake don’t tell anybody I gave it
to you.”

She had thrust a small package into my hand; an envelope rather. I took
it, but I must have seemed uncertain, for she urged me in a desperate
voice to hide it.

“He’ll be down any minute!” she implored me. “Hurry!”

I slid it into my stocking, and then slowly straightened.

“I don’t like it, Miss Margaret,” I told her. “If it has anything to do
with——”

“Listen to me, Lou! All I’m trying to do is to save somebody who is
innocent. I swear that, Lou.”

The next second I was alone on the porch, and soon after that the
officer returned.




                                   IX


I was in a poor state of nerves when I was finally shown into the
library. Only Mr. Lancaster was still there, and he looked as though he
had not moved since the afternoon. He was lying back in the same chair,
with his delicate immaculately kept hands on the arms, and his face a
waxy yellow. He did not rise as usual on my entrance. At first he seemed
not to know that I was there; then he opened his eyes and looked at me,
a strange and unfriendly look.

“What brings you here?” he asked, still without moving.

“I want to talk to the Inspector.”

“About what?” He still lay back, but I got an impression of sudden
tension.

I took my courage in my hands.

“About the money, Mr. Lancaster,” I said. “I may be wrong, but I have
thought of a way by which it could have been taken out of the house.”

“Taken out of the house! How do you know it has been taken out of the
house?”

Luckily for me Inspector Briggs came in just then, looking rather
annoyed, and took me to the morning room behind the parlor. He put me
into a chair, and then drawing one close in front of me, sat down
himself. At that moment I thanked heaven for long skirts. Whatever it
was Margaret had given me, it felt bulky and uncomfortable in my
stocking.

“Now, Miss Hall,” he said, “let’s have it. I presume it’s about this
murder.”

“The murder and the gold,” I told him.

“Gold? What do you know about any gold?”

That was the first time I realized that the family had not told the
police about it, and I was pretty well confused. But I managed to say
that there was a story that Mrs. Lancaster had been hoarding it and
that, trying to think how it could be taken away—if it was—I had
thought of the street cleaner.

“After all,” I said, “somebody did this killing, Inspector. And it
wasn’t Jim Wellington, no matter what you think.”

He smiled rather grimly.

“Somebody did it, that’s sure,” he agreed. “Well, we’ll look up your
friend with the cart; but I wouldn’t be too hopeful. You live next door,
eh? Then I suppose you know this family fairly well.”

“I’ve lived next door to them all my life. But as to knowing them well,
if you knew the Crescent you wouldn’t say that.”

“Why?” He eyed me, absently pinching his upper lip; a habit I was to
learn well as time went on.

“I don’t know. We are rather a repressed lot, I imagine. We see a good
bit of each other, but no one is particularly intimate with anyone else.
We still leave cards when we call after four o’clock,” I added; and he
seemed to find that amusing, for he smiled.

“But you have certain powers of observation,” he pointed out. “Take this
family here, in this house. Did they get along together? Just shut your
eyes and tell me what you can think, or remember, about them; their
relationships, their prejudices, their differences if they had any.” And
seeing me hesitate, he added: “Nobody is under suspicion, of course. As
a matter of fact, it is practically impossible for any of them to have
done it; for reasons I won’t go into now. This is routine, but it has to
be done.”

“I don’t really know much,” I told him. “They seemed to get along very
well. The two girls were devoted to Mrs. Lancaster, although she was a
fretful invalid. In a way Miss Emily bore most of that burden; but Emily
was her favorite.”

“And Mr. Lancaster? Was he fond of his wife?”

“He was most loyal and careful of her. But she was not easy to get along
with. You see,” I explained, “our servants talk back and forth, and so
we learn things we wouldn’t otherwise.”

“And—since you seem to know about this money—how did Mr. Lancaster
regard the hoarding?”

“He disliked it. All of them did.”

He leaned back and pinched his lip again. “Now that’s interesting,” he
commented. “Very interesting. It doesn’t look—well, let’s get on. What
about Miss Margaret? Rather more worldly, isn’t she? Doesn’t like being
a spinster and doesn’t like getting old. Isn’t that it?”

I colored uncomfortably.

“No woman likes either, Inspector.”

But he grinned at me cheerfully.

“Tut, tut!” he said. “You’re still a young woman, and a good-looking one
at that. Well, what about her?”

“I don’t know very much. She’s a good housekeeper, and she helps with
her mother. She goes out more than Miss Emily, almost every other
afternoon; and she dresses more carefully. That is, Miss Emily is
frightfully neat, of course, but Miss Margaret is more—well, I dare say
more fashionable.”

“Hasn’t given up hope yet, in other words!” he said, and laughed a
little. “All right, that will do for the family. Now tell me about this
afternoon. Close your eyes again. But first; have you any idea just how
this gold was put into the chest? The old lady was helpless, wasn’t she?
Then who did it, or was there when it was done?”

“I haven’t any idea. I never heard of it until tonight.”

“And then Wellington told you?”

“I heard before that. All the Crescent seems to have known about it,
except myself.”

He pinched his lip again, thoughtfully.

“They did, eh? Just how did they know? I gather the family here hasn’t
been very communicative about it.”

“I really don’t know. George Talbot is in a bank, and I suppose even
bankers have their human moments—in clubs or wherever bankers go when
they are not banking.”

“The Talbots knew then, I take it?”

“They must have. Mrs. Talbot says she remonstrated with Mrs. Lancaster
only this afternoon about having it there. And Mrs. Lancaster was
peevish, and said Margaret had been scolding her too.”

“Humph!” he said. “Quite a lot of interest in that money all at once,
wasn’t there? Well, let’s get back to you, and what you saw before Emily
Lancaster came out of her faint, and found young Wellington with you.”

I had begun to have a queer unwilling sort of confidence in the man, but
I hesitated then.

“Don’t be afraid,” he said. “It takes a lot of trouble to send an
innocent man to the chair these days, and sometimes as much to send a
guilty one!”

So I told him all I knew, which was not a great deal. I began at
three-thirty that afternoon, and ended when I left the house perhaps an
hour and a half later. He listened with his eyes closed, and still
pinching that upper lip of his, until I had finished. Then he thanked me
and got up.

“It’s the sort of case that sets a police department by the ears,” he
said. “A crime probably by a non-habitual criminal, and so ordinary
methods are no use in it. Well, we’ll have to hope for some luck. Maybe
it’s in the chest! Certainly from the weight of it the gold still is!”

And I imagine that it was after that talk with me that Mr. Sullivan went
down for the ice pick and met Mr. Lancaster in the hall, only to be
forbidden to open the chest at all.

My friend of the pavement was waiting for me when I left the house. It
was after midnight by that time, and raining hard, and I still remember
the street lamp shining on his glistening rubber coat, and his
injunction to me that I “had better make a run for it.”

It was not until I had got back to my own room that I missed Margaret’s
parcel! My heart almost stopped beating, for whatever it was I knew that
it probably lay, white and gleaming, somewhere on the pavement between
the two houses.

I turned out my light and surveyed what little of the street I could see
from my window. My friend of the rubber coat was not in sight, but
toward the rear and No Man’s Land men seemed to be still moving. Their
flashlights at that distance looked like fireflies moving close to the
earth. I did not know just what they were searching for, unless it was
footprints. But they gave me what the Inspector had not, a terror of the
relentless process of the law that turned me cold.

For I knew I would have to go out again, retrace my steps and find that
envelope which was to save someone who was innocent. And who could that
be but Jim?

The rubber coat was not in sight when I reached the pavement again, and
I found my parcel easily enough. No sooner had I picked it up, however,
than the now familiar voice spoke close beside me.

“I thought I’d put you safely to bed!”

“I lost my handkerchief while I was running,” I said, and dropped the
wet object down the neck of my frock.

He saw the gesture and seemed undecided. After all, he could hardly have
up-ended me there on the street and shaken it out of me. But he did not
believe the handkerchief story, and he lost some of his amiability.

“I’d like to see what you picked up just now, miss.”

“My handkerchief. I’ve told you. If you don’t believe me take me over to
Inspector Briggs and watch him laugh at you!”

“And you won’t show it?”

“Why should I? Unless I’m under arrest?”

That decided him, for with a sharp warning to go back home and stay
there he let me go. When I reached our porch, he was still standing
there in the pouring rain, looking uneasily after me. And so frightened
was I that I was locked in my room with the shades drawn before I so
much as looked at what Margaret had given me.

Then I examined it. It was a fair-sized white envelope on which the rain
had already done its work, for as I examined it it fairly went to pieces
in my hands.

There was no concealing its contents. What it contained was a man’s
glove, a glove belonging to a large man, and of heavy leather. Nor was
there any concealing the fact that the glove was stained with blood. It
was wet and faded on the back, but the palm and fingers were stiff with
it.

I stood there, literally frozen with horror. It was a glove that would
have fitted Jim Wellington, but could on no account belong to Mr.
Lancaster, with his small delicate hands. Like a woman’s, his hands. And
instantly I was seeing Margaret running down the stairs after poor
Emily, and coming across that glove, maybe in the lower hall. Finding it
and hiding it. She liked Jim. She had said: “All I’m trying to do is to
save somebody who is innocent.”

But how, if that glove was Jim’s, could she believe him innocent?

I took it to the light and examined it carefully. It was an old
right-hand glove. The marks on the inside showed that it had made
several trips to the cleaner’s, and ignorant as I was of such matters I
knew that the police could easily identify it from those marks. Also it
bore, in addition to the stains, some curious black streaks that looked
as though it might have been used while the owner worked about the
engine of a car, but which had a pungent odor, familiar but hard to
identify, except that it was apparently not engine grease. Still, it
might have been.

I sat back and thought. Beginning at the house nearest the gate, Jim
Wellington and Helen had a car, but it was kept at a garage on Liberty
Avenue, not far away. The Daltons had a car, and Joseph drove it on
state occasions. Mr. Dalton often worked over it in the garage. Holmes I
eliminated; he had true mechanic’s hands; usually dirty, to Mother’s
disgust. The Lancasters had no car at all, using a hired one when
necessary, and George Talbot had an ancient Ford, notorious in the
Crescent for its noise and for George’s boast that he had never looked
under the hood since he bought it.

Also, I was more and more certain that the black smears were not engine
grease; that they were something else which I should be able to
identify, but could not; and which was pungent enough to rise above the
odor of wet leather and the dreadful flat smell of dried blood.

One thing I did know. That glove held the key to the crime next door. It
had been worn by the killer, and now I was to hide it where even the
police could not find it. For I knew well enough that the man in the
rubber coat had not believed me.

I could not even burn it. Not at once, anyhow. It was wet, and besides,
Margaret had told me to hide it. I might get her permission later to
destroy it, but for that night at least I had to secrete it. But where?
And as though to add to my troubles that night, Mother had to choose
that moment to waken and to come through the connecting bath into my
room. I had only time to slip the dreadful thing under a chair cushion
before she entered.

There was nothing to do but to face it out, so I stood there while she
gazed in amazement at my sopping head and dress.

“Louisa! Where in the world have you been?”

“I couldn’t sleep, mother. I walked to the corner, and the storm caught
me.”

“You went out? Like that?”

“No, I came back like this, mother.”

But she refused to smile. I can still see her, as I see so many things
belonging to that dreadful time; her hair in its usual kid rollers, her
dead black dressing gown about her, and her face grave and somber.

“Louisa,” she said, “if I ask you to stay in the house especially at
night, until this crime is solved, will you believe me when I tell you
that there is a real reason for it?”

“I should think you would have to tell me more than that, mother.”

She shook her head.

“It is not my secret. And it is particularly necessary that the police
should not know.”

“But if it has any bearing on this terrible thing they ought to know.”

“The thing is done. Nobody can bring her back.”

“It all sounds stupid and silly to me,” I broke out. “And if the rest of
us are in danger it’s criminally wrong. That’s all.”

But Mother’s face took on the obstinate look I know so well.

“I am sure all possible steps will be taken,” she said. “The only reason
I have told you is that you will realize that you must not leave the
house at night. Or even in the daytime, alone.”

“So, to avoid publicity, we are all to be prisoners! Mother, if you
don’t tell the police I shall.”

I was frightened after I had said it, for I do not remember ever before
coming into open conflict with her. I had the little girl feeling that
probably the lightning outside would strike me dead the next minute, but
Mother took it better than I expected.

“If you do,” she said, coldly but without indignation, “I can only tell
you that you will spoil two lives, and may completely destroy one of
them.”

With that she went out, leaving me to make of it what I could.




                                   X


I remember that I spent the time until Mother slept again in undressing
and in trying to think of a safe spot in which to hide that sickening
glove.

Perhaps that seems a simple matter in a house as large as ours, but it
does not take into account the Crescent type of housekeeping. For
thirty-odd years, in four of our five houses, the week has been divided
into certain household “days.” Thus, although we have imported certain
labor-saving devices, we still wash on Monday and iron on Tuesday. We
bake—we still bake our own bread—on Wednesday and Saturday, we clean
our silver on Thursday, we do our marketing three times a week and do it
ourselves, and on Friday we have a general cleaning, upstairs and down.
Saturday is a sort of preparation day, being devoted to the preparing of
elaborate food for Sunday, and to the changing of beds, the listing of
Monday’s wash and a complete tidying up of house, porches and grounds.

Nothing is sacred from this system, and I myself have rather less
privacy than the elephant in our city zoo. It is nothing unusual for me
to find Mother seated before my bureau and putting into order the
contents of its drawers, and it was in the course of such an
investigation that she once found hidden there a letter from Jim
Wellington, and thus ended my first and only romance.

So it was that, standing there waiting for Mother to go to sleep, I was
wildly canvassing the house for some safe hiding place for the glove. I
considered the library and dropping it behind the books there; but
although we use the room the books are my father’s and so are held
virtually sacred. No hand but Mother’s ever dusts them, and only that
week I had heard her say that she meant to get at them again. On the
third floor the storeroom was always locked, and Mother carried the key.
And it was now Friday by the clock, a day which meant the lifting of all
liftables and the moving of all movables in the entire house.

Never before had I realized what must be the mental condition of a
criminal faced with the problem of hiding the clue to his guilt; and
never before had I considered that it might be practically impossible in
a house of eighteen rooms, baths, pantries and innumerable closets, to
conceal an object as small as a glove. Certainly I did not believe that,
having at last found a spot which seemingly answered all requirements,
it would be discovered in less than twenty-four hours by anything so
ironic as a mere turn in the weather!

But that is precisely what happened, for the place I finally located was
over the radiator at the end of the guest wing hall.

Some years ago the Crescent had decided that our hot-water heat was hard
on its furniture, and almost all of us had installed new patented
radiator covers in our upper and lower halls. These covers were of metal
and resembled all other covers of the sort, with one exception. The top
of each one was hinged, and underneath lay a flat zinc water pan. One
might examine them for days, and unless one knew the secret he would not
discover that shallow pan, which was filled only when cold weather
started our furnaces.

In our house there were two in the upper hall, one underneath the front
window and outside of Mother’s door; the other near the end of the guest
wing, where a window faced the Daltons’. It was this one I decided to
use, and it was there, at something after one o’clock in the morning,
that I placed the glove.

My spirits rose at once, I remember. The storm had passed, and a cooler
air was coming through the open window near at hand. To add to my relief
I heard a car drive in at the gate, stop at the Wellington house and
then go round the Crescent and out the gate again. That could only mean
that they had brought Jim back, and I drew my first full breath of the
evening when far away I heard his front door slam.

It was then that I went to the window, to discover that the Dalton
house, like the Lancasters’, was lighted from top floor to basement.

It startled me, that blaze of light. The Dalton house is rather closer
to ours than the Lancasters’, and as Mother has her cutting garden
there, it is not obscured by trees. Ordinarily it is a dark house. The
strange silent life which goes on there is not conducive to the gaiety
of many lights, and never before had I seen it fully lighted.

Mrs. Dalton’s room at the front was brilliant, and also her dressing
room behind it. Downstairs both drawing room and dining room were
alight, and even the windows in the cellar. Nor was that all. Beyond the
shrubbery at the rear there was a faint gleam as though the garage
itself was lighted, although I could not see it.

At first all I saw was this blaze of light. Then I realized that someone
was moving about in it, and at last that this moving figure was that of
Mrs. Dalton. She appeared to be still fully dressed, and she was doing a
peculiar thing. So far as I could make out, she was systematically
searching her house!

She would enter a room, appear and reappear as though moving about it,
end by examining the windows and the sills beyond them, and then turn
out the light and go through the same process in the next room. Even
from that distance that silent search of hers had something remorseless
and determined about it.

She was in the dining room when I first saw her, and in Bryan Dalton’s
den next. Then came a few minutes when I lost her, only to have her
reappear in the basement. She was there for so long that I wondered if
she had gone up again, when I saw her again at one of the windows,
carefully peering out into the areaway beyond it.

To say that I was puzzled is rather to understate the situation. On a
night when, shattered as to nerves and profoundly shaken as to its sense
of security, the Crescent was presumably locked and bolted into its
bedchambers, the most timid woman among us all was carefully and
systematically making a search of her house. For what?

Odd memories wandered through my mind: Miss Lydia Talbot’s statement a
year or so before that Laura Dalton was still madly in love with Bryan,
Helen Wellington’s conviction that he, Bryan, had a wandering foot as
well as a wandering eye, and that he was too good-looking to be let
alone and too dangerous to trifle with.

“But he’s so old,” I had said to that.

“Old? At fifty-something? Don’t be the eternal ingénue, Lou. That’s not
what I meant anyhow. When I say he’s dangerous I mean that she is. She’s
insanely jealous of him.”

Up to that time when at last she put out the basement lights, then, I
had not connected any of all this with our murder. If I had any coherent
thoughts at all, they were that she was searching for something which
might show that he was involved with another woman. For it was no casual
search; even I could see that. She was carrying it on with too desperate
an energy for that.

It was not until the light went up on the rear porch that I began to
wonder, for Bryan suddenly appeared in the picture, towering over
her—she barely reached to his shoulder—and to my utter amazement
seemed to be protesting not by gestures but by words. Not only that, but
she seemed to be making brief staccato replies. This complete reversal
of all that I could remember was more than human nature could bear, and
I started running back to my room for my dressing gown and slippers. I
must have made some noise, for the next minute I had run full tilt into
Holmes and scared him nearly to death.

“Oh, my God!” he gasped, and darting back into his room, closed and
bolted the door.

Luckily Mother had not wakened, and I dragged on some things and went
downstairs without further interruption.

Perhaps one should have been born and have lived along the Crescent to
realize what any break in our routine means to us, or the avid curiosity
which hides behind our calm assumption that each house is its family
castle. Perhaps, too, I should invent here some excuse for what I meant
to do, which was nothing less than to get as near to the Daltons’ as
possible, and to see if the old deadlock actually had been broken; and
if it had, why?

But there was more to it than that. I was remembering that neighborhood
meeting downstairs only a few hours before, with Laura Dalton’s excited
loquacity and her husband’s comparative silence. More than that, for I
had happened to be looking at Mrs. Dalton when George Talbot said he had
seen Bryan near the woodshed that morning, and I remembered that her
eyes had narrowed and her lips tightened.

A dozen ideas were surging in my mind as I went down: reports that Mr.
Dalton had been caught in the market and badly squeezed, stories that he
had found consolation for the separation from his wife, pictures of him
working over his car, his hands protected by old kid gloves and swearing
sometimes at the top of his voice. A quick-tempered man he was, but I
had thought him rather kindly. The feminine part of the Crescent had
always blamed him rather less than his wife for their troubles.

And now something, something crucial, had driven him to speak to her,
and her to reply. What was it? Was she merely jealous, or was it in some
way connected with the crime?

But I had no time for surmises. I had barely reached the kitchen door
and let myself out onto the porch when I realized that the two of them,
she in the lead and he following, had left the house and were coming
quickly but quietly toward where I stood. They came through the darkness
by the grapevine path, moving swiftly because of long familiarity, and
so far as I know neither one spoke until they were immediately beneath
me. Then he said, cautiously:

“It’s sheer madness, Laura. With all these policemen about!”

“What do I care about the police? The more the better!”

“I suppose you know what you are doing?”

“Didn’t you know what you were doing, all these months? And today?”

“For God’s sake, Laura! What do you mean?”

But she did not reply to that, and the next moment they had passed by
our porch, going as nearly as I could determine toward the Lancaster
house itself, and leaving me there on the porch with the solid
foundations of the Crescent fairly rocking under my feet. What had
driven them into speech together I had no idea, but from the cold fury
in her voice and the fear in his I knew that it was something terrific,
something beyond any knowledge of mine.

I had never doubted that they were on the way to the Lancaster house,
now only dimly lighted. To my amazement, however, the next thing I saw
was that the flash was being used in the woodshed. Mrs. Dalton was
apparently examining it from roof to floor, and by going down to the end
of our garden I saw that this was so.

It gave me a strange and eerie feeling, for now again they were not
talking. He was standing in the open doorway, and she seemed to be
moving about rapidly. Luckily for them, for she seemed beyond caution,
the doorway opened in our direction and there were no windows. Also the
rain had apparently driven the outside searchers within doors somewhere.

It had stopped raining by that time, but the grass and shrubbery were
dripping, and I began to feel cold and uneasy. In the Lancaster house
Margaret’s windows at the back, which had been dark, were suddenly
lighted. Evidently she, too, could not sleep. And in the shed I heard
Mr. Dalton’s voice, now cold and angry.

“Well, what have you found?”

“I know what I’m after. That’s something.”

“I think you’ve gone crazy.”

“Then what about you? Ask yourself that. And I’ll find them, don’t
worry. You’re clever, Bryan, but I’m clever too. Wherever you put them
I’ll find them.”

That broke his icy calm, for he went in suddenly and caught her by the
shoulder.

“No, you won’t,” he said. “I’ll tell you that right now.” Then he
released her and his voice softened somewhat.

“You’re a little thing to have so much hate in you,” he said. “If you’d
been any sort of wife to me, Laura——”

“And whose fault was that?”

Sheer recklessness had carried them safely through all this. I know now
that there was a policeman on the Lancaster back porch at the time, but
as I have said the woodshed is at some distance, and is screened by
shrubbery as well. Not that Mrs. Dalton cared, at that. She was in one
of those cold rages where she cared nothing for consequences. This was
evident when she started back with the flash still going.

I had beat a hasty retreat, but I could hear him protesting.

“For God’s sake, Laura! Do you want us both arrested?”

“They couldn’t hold me. Not for a minute.”

But she put out the light, and as they passed our porch again they were
only two shadowy figures once more, silent and unhappy. I had a feeling
of tragedy about them that night, for their frustrated lives and their
wasted years.

It was not until I was back in my room and in my bed that the full
significance of that visit and that conversation began to dawn on me.
Surely Laura Dalton could not suspect her husband of that ghastly
murder. What possible motive could he have had? The money? But according
to the Inspector, the money was still in the chest.




                                   XI


Mother had one of her headaches the next morning, and I was awakened
late with the word that George Talbot wanted to see me downstairs.

I dressed as quickly as possible, and George came into the dining room
while I ate my breakfast; the Crescent frowns on meals in bed except in
case of illness. I sent Annie out as soon as possible, although I had an
uneasy feeling that she was not far from the pantry door.

George looked tired and anxious.

“See here, Lou,” he said. “I suppose you know that Jim is in pretty bad
with the police, although they’ve released him. And if you’ve seen the
morning papers you know that they’ll have to arrest somebody, sooner or
later. The town’s gone crazy. The middle of a bright afternoon, a house
full of people, and a helpless old woman killed with an axe. It doesn’t
make sense, but there it is!”

“So they pick on Jim, of all people!” I said bitterly.

“Jim’s all right so far. People don’t go to the chair simply because
they are remembered in wills. It’s that infernal chest; they’re opening
it this morning. That’s what the servants say. Lizzie was over there at
the crack of dawn!”

Lizzie, as I may have said, was a sort of major-domo at the Talbots’.
She had been there for thirty years, first as George’s nurse and later
on as an underpaid and overworked pensioner; a tall gaunt woman who,
like Lydia, missed nothing of what happened to us. In fact, they were
not unlike, and between them they formed a sort of machine, Lizzie
collecting small items of interest and Miss Lydia disseminating them.

“You think it may be gone?” I asked weakly.

“I’m trying not to think that, Lou.”

“But listen, George, I saw Jim when he left that house. He hadn’t a
thing in his hands.”

He shook himself impatiently.

“That’s not the point. If it’s gone the police may wonder—well, if he
ever put it in the chest at all. Don’t look like that, Lou; we’ve got to
face it. Why should Mr. Lancaster have sent for Jim yesterday, if he
didn’t think something was wrong? It wouldn’t be so hard, under the
circumstances. Just the two of them in that room and a little act of
substitution. He carried it out in a bag, and if he had another bag
ready, filled with silver dollars for instance——”

I was too horrified to speak, and George leaned over and touched my
hand. I had known him all my life, and he had grown into a not
unattractive man of the heavy-chested middle-height type, the sort that
has to shave twice a day and still has a blue-black look about the jaw.
But his eyes were still the eyes of the boy I used to play with, and now
they were filled with pity.

“I’m sorry, Lou. I thought maybe we could work this out together, but
I’ve only scared you to death. I know damned well he never killed her.
But something queer has been going on around here for the last few
weeks. And if you don’t believe it, look here.”

He reached into his pocket and pulled out a shining new twenty-dollar
gold piece.

“I picked this up back in No Man’s Land, about ten days ago. I’d lost a
ball, hooked it into the trees toward Euclid Street; and I turned over
some grass and found this. Of course it may not mean anything, but there
it is! Thank God I found it and not Dalton. It might as easily have been
him.”

And then and there I told him about what I had seen the night before. It
seemed to stun him as much as it had stunned me, and he sat thinking for
some time. Then he said abruptly:

“I wouldn’t tell the police that, Lou.”

“Why not? I don’t want to, but if they arrest Jim Wellington——”

“They won’t arrest him. Not yet anyhow. No, it looks to me as
though—You saw Dalton last night when I said I’d seen him at the
woodshed that morning, didn’t you? If you saw his face you know he was
scared.”

“He’d never have taken the axe, at that hour.”

But he was not listening.

“Look here,” he said, “do you know why the Daltons broke off diplomatic
relations?”

“I don’t know. I believe she was jealous, or something of the sort.”

“Exactly. Well, Bryan Dalton has been a pretty gay lad in his time, and
he’s not so darned old now. What I’m wondering now is—What about this
Peggy at the Lancasters’? She’s pretty and she’s nobody’s fool. She’d
know about the chest, of course. She could have known also that Mr.
Lancaster meant to make an inventory yesterday; the telephone’s in the
hall. And she’d have several chances every week to get an impression of
that lock. You know, wiping the floor, or dusting under the bed. You see
what I mean. She could have let him in the house yesterday, too. Opened
one of the lower windows, for instance, and fastened it later. Of course
it’s horrible, but it’s all horrible anyhow.”

“And you think Mrs. Dalton suspects that, George?”

“How do I know? What was she looking for last night? What might be in
the woodshed? The duplicate key maybe. Or perhaps we’re just crazy, and
the money’s still there.”

“And we fall back on a lunatic!” I said, trying to smile. “What is there
to do, George? I’ll go crazy sitting here.”

“Well, the police are opening the chest this morning, according to
Lizzie. Apparently they tried it last night with an ice pick and
failed.” Which shows I think not only the high efficiency of our
grapevine telegraph, but the fact that all along we underrated the
intelligence of our servants. “If the money’s gone, I wish you’d take a
look around No Man’s Land. I have to work, or I’d do it.” He picked up a
pencil and began to draw a crude sketch on the table cloth. We still use
table cloths; the Crescent regards doilies as an attempt to evade
laundering the heavy damask cloths we affect.

“Here’s the Crescent,” he said. “And here’s where I found the gold
piece. If I were you I’d go in by way of Euclid Street, and examine that
woodland. You see, the chances are that if the money is gone it’s been
buried; and if it’s been buried it may be buried there.”

He looked at his watch and got up.

“Better rub that out,” he said as he rose. “God knows the servants have
enough to talk about already. If you can get into the Lancasters’ and
learn what the police discover I wish you’d call me up.”

I agreed, and I went with him to the door.

“I wonder if anyone has told Helen Wellington about Jim,” I said. “If
she knows he is in trouble——”

“She’ll like it!”

“Still, there should be someone there. Even the servants have gone,
George. He’s all alone.”

“If you’re asking me, he’s better alone than with Helen any time.” He
patted me on the arm. “He’s able to take care of himself, Lou. He won’t
mind a little dust in the house and he can get food, of course. We’ll
begin to worry about him if that money’s missing, not before.”

“And if it is?”

“Then, as sure as God made little fishes, they’ll arrest him.”

When I went back to the dining room Annie was gazing with interest and
disapproval at his drawing.

“It’s a pity he couldn’t use a piece of paper, Miss Louisa.”

“I’ll rub it out in the lavatory,” I said hastily, “and you will only
have to press it.”

She took away the dishes and I was gathering up the cloth when she came
back and said: “Old Mr. Lancaster has taken to his bed, miss. He had
only a cup of black coffee this morning. And Ellen is threatening to
leave. She doesn’t like the way the police went through her clothes
yesterday.”

I remember standing there, the table cloth in my arms, and feeling that
she wanted me to ask her something, that her return had been solely for
that purpose. But her face was carefully blank.

“Listen, Annie,” I said at last, “if you know anything, anything
whatever that the police ought to know, you should tell it.”

I realized at once that I had made a mistake. At the word “police” she
stiffened.

“I don’t know anything, miss.”

“Not the police, then. Is there anything you can tell me? Anything out
of the ordinary? Someone has committed a terrible crime, Annie. Do you
want them to get away with it?”

“Maybe there’s plenty out of the ordinary been happening,” she said
darkly. “But it hasn’t anything to do with that murder.”

“How do you know that?”

“I know it all right.”

“Annie,” I said desperately. “You can tell me this at least. Has it
anything to do with Peggy at the Lancasters’?”

But her astonishment was so evident that I hastened to add: “Or with any
of the maids there?”

All of which was most unfortunate, for she froze immediately and
departed for the pantry with her head in the air.

It was after nine when I went to the Lancasters’ to ask Margaret what I
was to do with the glove. Mother was asleep, and I slipped out without
saying anything. I had not told George about the glove, but it was one
of those cool mornings in August which with us sometimes turn into
downright cold, and I could not run the risk of our furnace being
lighted. That meant water in the radiator pans and discovery.

Cool as the wind was, however, the sun had come out and everything
looked fresh and green after the night’s rain. Even the Lancaster house,
white and immaculate, looked cheerful, and the only strange note was the
officer on guard in front of it, and a camera man on the Common, trying
to find some spot where the trees did not hide it completely, for a
picture.

I met Mrs. Talbot at the walk, and I was shocked to see that she looked
almost ravaged. For all her eccentricity she was in the main a cheerful
woman, but even her voice had lost its vigor.

“I’m taking over some beef tea,” she said. “Mr. Lancaster is ill.”

We went in together; or rather I went in. She merely gave the jar of
beef tea to Jennie and went away. Jennie admitted me without speech, and
I saw a group of men in the library, to the left of the front door, as I
entered the hall.

“I want to see Miss Margaret.”

“She’s in the morning room, miss.”

Margaret was there, fully and as usual carefully dressed, except that
now she wore deep black. She did not hear me at first. She was sitting
in front of her desk and staring at the wall above it, without moving.
For the first time it occurred to me that morning that Margaret
Lancaster was a handsome woman. I had known her so long that I dare say
I had never considered her before. She had been like any familiar thing
which, after years of familiarity, one does not see at all until some
shock or change forces it on one’s attention.

Looking back as now I can, I realize that to a woman like Margaret
Lancaster, good-looking, intelligent and restless, those years in that
house must have been nothing less than a long martyrdom. She had never
given up, as had Emily. She still dressed beautifully, and had her hair
marcelled. I can remember that there was an almost fresh wave in it that
morning and that her hands, spread out before her on the desk, were well
kept and carefully manicured.

But she was also thoroughly poised. When at last she realized that it
was I who had entered the room she turned quietly and looked at me.

“Close the door, Louisa. I want to talk to you.”

When I came back she indicated a chair close by her, and she lowered her
voice.

“What did you do with it?”

I told her and she nodded.

“That ought to do, for a day or two. Later it will have to be burned, of
course. I want you to burn it without opening the envelope, Louisa.”

“It opened itself.”

“Then you know what is in it?” She sat erect and stared at me, and two
deep spots of color came into her cheeks.

I explained and she listened. But the explanation was plainly less
important to her than the fact that I knew and had seen the glove. There
was a long silence when I had finished. Then she made up her mind and
turning to me put a hand on my knee.

“First of all,” she said. “I wanted that glove out of the house because
it was Jim Wellington’s. I give you my word that that is true. And I
give you my word that I found it here in the house, after he had gone.
But I don’t believe for a minute that he—that he killed Mother. But he
left the pair here two or three months ago, in the spring, and I dropped
them into a table drawer in the hall. I always meant to tell him they
were here, but I forgot. And I’m pretty sure he had no idea himself
where he lost them. I had to get rid of that one last night; that’s
all.”

It was my turn to sit silent for a time.

“Then anybody in the house might have known it was there?” I said
finally.

She made a gesture.

“Anybody. And I can’t find the mate to it. I’m sure there were two.”

I got up, with an uneasy feeling that she had not told me all she knew.

“Very well,” I said. “I’ll burn it. I’ll have to do it at night in the
furnace.”

She nodded, and then leaned forward and put a hand on my arm. “I can
only say this, Louisa,” she said in a low voice. “I believe that glove
was deliberately planted where I found it, and that it was the most
cruel and diabolical thing I have ever known.”




                                  XII


Before I left I inquired about Emily, and she gave me a quick hard
glance.

“She’s all right,” she said. “Doctor Armstrong gave her a hypodermic
last night, but I don’t think she slept much. It only dazed her.”

Emily was not asleep. As I went out I heard her voice in the upper hall
querulously demanding some paste, and Peggy replying that there was none
in the house.

“I’ll get you some, Miss Emily,” I called. She did not hear me, however,
and so I started up the stairs. The men were still in the library at
that time, and I recognized the voice of Mr. Lewis, who has been the
attorney for most of the Crescent ever since I can remember. As I
mounted I could hear Emily’s canary, singing gaily, and in the upper
hall Peggy was using a carpet sweeper. It might have been any house in
the Crescent on a sunny August morning, had it not been for a policeman
in uniform, eying Peggy with admiration from his position outside Mrs.
Lancaster’s bedroom door.

“Where is Miss Emily, Peggy?” I asked.

She glanced at the officer.

“She’s in _there_, miss. There was a leak in the night, and they let her
go in.”

I saw then that the door into the death chamber was open, and I went to
it and glanced in.

The big bed had been stripped of its sheets and mattress, but apparently
nothing else had been touched, except that the chest had been drawn out
from under the bed and now rested on two chairs in the center of the
room.

The leak was at once evident. The rain had seemingly come in from the
third floor by the way of the roof, for the heavy paper was soaked and
loose from ceiling to floor just beside the big bed. There was a pan on
the floor to catch the water, and stretching over this Emily Lancaster
was carefully patting the paper back into place. She had not heard me,
for she did not turn until I spoke to the policeman.

“May I go in?”

“No, miss. Sorry, but it’s orders.”

Then Emily turned, and I was horrified by the change in her. Her face
was simply raddled. Not only that; usually the perfection of neatness,
she looked as though she had slept in her clothes. She still wore
yesterday afternoon’s white dress, but it was incredibly wrinkled. When
she came toward me she moved with the tottering gait of a very old
woman.

“I’m afraid the paper is spoiled,” she said, as though that was the most
vital matter in the world. “I’ve spoken to Father ever since Ellen
reported the leak upstairs, and now it has come all the way through.”

She held out her hand to me, seemed to forget why, and turned back to
look again at the paper.

“Even when it dries it will leave a stain,” she said. “It did it once
before, but not so much. I fastened it back with thumb tacks, but now
I’d like to glue it.”

It was rather dreadful, that escape of hers from reality to anything so
unimportant. And she would not stop. She sent me down to Margaret to see
if she had any paste, and Margaret gave it to me grimly.

“Still at it, is she? She’s been carrying on about it since seven this
morning.”

“I suppose it gives her something to do.”

“There’s plenty to do, if she’d pull herself together. Tell her not to
use that paste while the paper’s wet, and get her to bed if you can,
Louisa.”

I did not manage all that, but I did coax her to bathe and lie down. She
kept up an incessant rattle of empty talk all the time I was with her,
and what with that and the singing of the bird I felt as though I were
on the edge of hysteria myself. It was fortunate for my nerves that
Doctor Armstrong came in just then, and seemed to grasp the situation
without words from me.

“Now see here, Emily,” he said sternly. “You stop talking and take this
medicine. I told you to take it last night. After that Louisa here will
draw your shades and settle you. And get rid of that damned bird, Lou.”

“I’m used to him,” Emily protested.

“I could get used to a riveting machine,” the doctor retorted, “but I
don’t intend to. Out he goes.”

He handed the cage to me and I carried it into the back wing of the
house and left it in one of the guest rooms. It seemed the obvious thing
to do at the time, but I still have moments when I waken and think of
the cheerful little creature, and that by not looking at its seed and
water cup I signed its death warrant that day. Perhaps another death
warrant too, but that does not bear thinking about.

When I came back the doctor met me in the hall and asked me to stay for
a while.

“Margaret is arranging for the funeral,” he said, “and all of them have
got the inquest to go through tomorrow morning. If you’ll be about in
case the old gentleman needs anything it will help.”

I was astonished, when I went back into Emily’s room, to find that she
was already asleep. Evidently Margaret had been right, and she had not
slept much during the night.

That left the upper hall to the policeman and myself. Peggy having
disappeared, he had taken a morning paper from his pocket, and sitting
on the front window sill, was doing a crossword puzzle. I was about to
get a chair from Margaret’s room to place outside Mr. Lancaster’s door
when I heard the men below leave the library and start up the stairs.
The Inspector came first, followed by Sullivan, the detective; then Mr.
Lewis, who nodded to me, and a strange dark man carrying a shabby
valise.

They were very quiet. They filed along and into Mrs. Lancaster’s room,
and it was Inspector Briggs who spoke: “That’s the box, Johnny.”

When I tiptoed forward they were gathered about it, and no one noticed
me at all. The dark man, Johnny, produced a bunch of keys, tried them in
turn, selected one and filed at it, and then in a businesslike manner
stepped back and said:

“That does it. All right, chief.”

I could not see into the box, but I could see the Inspector’s face, and
I am certain he was disappointed.

“All here, apparently,” he said. “Is there anybody about to show this
to?”

“I represent the family,” Mr. Lewis said rather pompously.

“Ever see this before? Know how much is in it?”

“No, but——”

“Get somebody, Sullivan.”

I moved away from the door just in time, and a few minutes later the
detective returned with Margaret. She gave a look into the chest, and
her expression changed from one of apprehension to relief.

“It’s there, then,” she said. “Well, all I can say is, thank God.”

The Inspector eyed her quickly.

“Why?”

“Because now we know,” she said. “There was no motive. Someone got into
the house, that’s all.”

But Sullivan had bent slightly and was prodding something with a finger.

“Any objection to opening one of these bags, chief?” he asked.

Margaret answered, instead.

“Not unless my father is present,” she said, “and I don’t want to
disturb him just now.”

I saw Sullivan and the Inspector exchange a glance, but nothing more was
said about opening anything. Instead the Inspector asked her about the
method used when the money was put into the chest.

“It was very simple,” she said. “We all disapproved, of course, but
sometimes one or the other of us would be in the room. Jim Wellington
got the gold for Mother, and currency when gold was scarce. She had
accounts in different banks, and most of them would give only a little
gold at a time. He brought it out in these bags, and Mother would count
it out on the bed.

“After that she would put the gold back into the sack, and twist the
wire around the neck of the sack. Or—when it was bank notes—into one
of those brown envelopes. After that, whichever it was, Jim would put it
into the chest.”

“How did he do that?”

“Well, at first he would put the box on two chairs, as it is now. But it
got pretty hard. After that he simply dragged it out from under the bed.
Mother would give him the key, and he would raise the lid and place the
money inside.”

“You don’t know how much there is, I suppose?”

“Not exactly. Jim said once that five thousand dollars weighed over
eighteen pounds, and that he didn’t like carrying so much at once
anyhow. Something might happen to it. Then the banks objected, too. He
hated the whole business. He brought less at a time after that. He’s the
only one who would know exactly, if he kept a record; as I’m sure he
did. I imagine she had between fifty and a hundred thousand dollars, but
that is only a guess.”

Sullivan had been doing some figuring on an old envelope. Now he picked
up one of the handles of the chest and lifted it. Inspector Briggs
watched him, but said nothing.

“Sure is heavy,” was Sullivan’s only comment.

“Just one thing more,” Margaret said. “I’m sure Mr. Lewis will agree
with me, and I know the family will. I’d be glad if that money went back
to the banks, and now; today. Under police protection. It can all go to
the First National and be counted there.”

Then she went out, followed very shortly by Johnny with his bag. The
others remained for some time, having closed the door on me, and so
again it was not until the afternoon papers came out that the Crescent
as a whole learned that there was no gold to go back to any bank; that
practically all the currency was gone, that most of the brown envelopes
with their tapes contained merely scraps of the local newspapers, and
that the canvas bags had been looted of their gold and carefully filled
with lead weights.

Just such lead weights, indeed, as Miss Mamie uses to hold down the none
too modern dresses she makes for most of us, and which all of us buy to
weight the bottoms of flower vases and plant crocks, so that they will
not upset in a wind.

But I knew nothing of that that morning. I went back home convinced that
everything was all right, and that there was no need of the search
George Talbot had suggested in No Man’s Land. Which was as well, for
Mother with a sick headache is rather difficult and I spent the
remainder of the morning putting iced cloths on her head—we do not
approve of rubber ice caps—and in raising and lowering the window
shades.

At two o’clock Doctor Armstrong, who is the Crescent doctor as Mr. Lewis
is its attorney, came in and I sent him up to see her. Before he went he
followed me into the library, and I saw that he looked anxious and as
though he too had not slept much.

“It’s a bad business, Lou,” he said. “Any way you look at it. Matter of
fact, this whole Crescent is bad business.”

“I don’t understand, I’m afraid.”

“It’s not hard to understand,” he said testily. “It’s neurotic; it’s
almost psychopathic. That’s what the matter is. Outside of yourself and
the Wellingtons—and even then Helen Wellington is not all she might
be—there is hardly a normal individual in the lot of you. By
circumstance or birth or exclusion of the world or God knows what, this
Crescent has become a fine neuro-psychiatric institute!”

“We are a little cut off,” I agreed.

“Cut off! Look at the Talbot woman, with her mania, no less, for locking
doors! Look at Lydia, suppressed within an inch of her life! Look at
Laura Dalton! Look at your own mother. Is it normal for a woman to wear
deep mourning and shut out the world because of the death twenty years
ago of a man—of her husband? Unless there’s remorse in it? About fifty
per cent of these crêpe-draped women are filled either with remorse or
self-dramatization!”

Then he realized what he had said and apologized rather lamely.

“Your mother is different,” he added. “With her it is escape. People and
the world generally rather bore her, so she escapes. But take the
Lancasters. Margaret has apparently managed, with the aid of an outside
life, to keep fairly normal. Emily has been on the verge of a nervous
breakdown for a year or two. Even Mr. Lancaster has felt the strain of
the last two years. Now on top of all that this comes, and—well, I’m
uneasy, Lou. Something or somebody over there is going to blow up. I’ve
been in and out of this Crescent for ten years, and it’s—well, I’ve
said what it is!”

He was a youngish man, with a thin tired face and a habit of drumming
nervously on his professional satchel while he talked.

“What do you mean by blow up, doctor?” I asked.

“How do I know? Yell, scream, go crazy, escape! Take your choice, Lou,
but keep normal yourself.”

He got up then, and prepared to see Mother. But he turned back at the
door.

“You found Mr. Lancaster in the library, didn’t you? Well, what was your
idea of the old gentleman’s reception of the news? How did he take it?”

“He was shocked, of course. He said very little, but he looked faint. He
asked Emily if it was she who had found the body, and later on he asked
if anyone had looked under the bed.”

“Who was there when he asked that?”

“Both the sisters.”

“Not too shocked, then, to think of the money! Well, what about the two
women? How did they react?”

“Emily was hysterical. Margaret was calm. I think she was angry with
Emily for acting as she did. That’s really all I noticed.”

“In other words, they each conformed to the pattern you’d have
expected.”

“I suppose so. I was pretty well excited myself.”

When some time later I let him out he said rather whimsically that he
had given Mother a sedative, and that so far he had doped practically
the entire Crescent, beginning with Lydia Talbot; and that the only
reason he had omitted Helen Wellington was because she was not there.

“Although I’ve got an idea that she ought to be,” he said. “This is no
time for the police to know that Jim’s wife has deserted him. They may
not understand that little habit of hers!”

Which explains in part what I did later that afternoon, with Mother
safely asleep in her bed and the usual Friday turning out and cleaning
being done in a sort of domestic whisper.

What I did was nothing less than to call on Helen Wellington, and to beg
her to come home.

I had meant to go in, calm and collected, and merely tell her the
situation, but circumstances changed all that. On my way downtown in a
taxi I heard the newsboys calling an extra and bought one. That was how
I learned that the money was gone, and I remember leaning back in that
dirty cab, strewn with cigarette butts and ashes, and feeling suddenly
faint again and as though I needed air.

I had pulled myself together somewhat when I reached Helen’s hotel, but
I must have looked rather queer when I went in. And I knew there was no
use appealing to either her pity or her pride the moment I had entered
that untidy little suite strewn with her belongings, and where she met
me in a gaudy pair of backless and sleeveless pajamas, a cigarette in
her hand and a cool smile on her face.

“Come in, Lou,” she said. “Wasn’t it just my luck to leave the Crescent
when it was about to provide some real excitement? I wouldn’t have
missed it on a bet.”

“Well,” I said, “it isn’t too late. Helen, Jim’s there alone, and he
certainly needs you.”

“Did he send you?” she asked sharply.

“No. But the servants have gone, and the way things are——”

She laughed a little, not too pleasantly.

“Gone, have they? Well, they were a poor lot anyhow,” she said. “Always
wanting money, the wretches! So Jim’s there alone, and you think I ought
to go back to make his bed and cook for him!”

“I think he needs moral support, Helen.”

“Ask Jim if he would expect moral support from me! I’d like to see his
face.”

“There’s another reason, too,” I said soberly. “It doesn’t look well
just now.”

“Yes, the Crescent _would_ think of that!”

“Not to the Crescent. To the police.”

But she waved that off with a gesture.

“They’ve been here already. They know I don’t believe Jim did it. He had
too much common sense. It was his common sense that separated us, by the
way; always asking me to be sensible and taking the fun out of life. But
that’s neither here nor there. I’m not going back just to save Jim’s
face, and that’s flat.”

“You mean never?”

“Well, never’s a long time. Don’t be too hopeful! But I’m very
comfortable here.”

“Listen, Helen,” I said. “Probably Jim would want to kill me if he knew
I’d been here, but I must tell you how things are. Then maybe you’ll
reconsider.”

I did tell her, from the stains on his clothes to the money in the
chest. It was not until I reached the money, however, that she really
sat up and became intent.

“And to think he never told me! How much was there?”

“I don’t know. Between fifty and a hundred thousand dollars, they say.”

Her reaction to that was typical. She simply lay back on her hotel sofa
and groaned.

“What I could do with all that money,” she wailed. “I owe everybody, and
I’m completely out of clothes. Now some fool has got it and buried it,
and will turn it into government bonds and live on the interest! I
simply can’t bear it.”

After that I went away. Thinking it over since, I believe she staged a
good bit of that for my benefit, and that she deliberately overplayed
her attitude of indifference. That had always been her reaction to the
Crescent, and it still remains so; a carefully thought-out defiance.

I still remember her last words as she stood in that untidy room, with
the scent she affected almost overwhelming and her eyes shrewd and keen.

“Sorry, Lou,” she said. “I’m not a very satisfactory person, am I? But
your Crescent scares me to death. Too much steam in the boiler and no
whistle to use it up.”




                                  XIII


I found Annie carrying a tea tray in to Mother, and a copy of the extra
on Mother’s bed. That newspaper alone, if nothing else, would have
marked the change in our habits since the murder. But I was astonished
to find Mother looking relieved and almost cheerful.

She looked up as I went in.

“Get that tray fixed and get out, Annie,” she said, “and close that door
behind you.”

Annie went in a hurry, and Mother turned to me.

“I suppose you’ve seen this?”

“No. But I dare say I should have suspected it. I was there when they
opened the chest.”

“Oh, you were, were you? Really, Louisa, sometimes I wonder how I ever
bore a child so—so undutiful. To think——!”

“You’ve been sick all day, mother. Anyhow, I wasn’t certain. I was there
when they opened the chest, but not the bags in it. I simply remember
now that one of the detectives looked skeptical when he touched the
bags. That’s all.”

She eyed me.

“I suppose you realize that this will probably be very damaging to Jim
Wellington, to say the least.”

“I don’t see it,” I said stubbornly. “Anyone who knows him——”

“Stuff and nonsense. Do use your head, Louisa. Who else could have done
it? It would have been easy for him. All he had to do was to show her
one bag, and have another ready to put into the chest.”

“You can’t believe that, mother! You can’t.”

“Never mind what I believe,” she said sharply. “What I want you to do is
to get Hester Talbot here. I’ve got an apology to make to her.”

That must have been at five, or perhaps later. At six o’clock Mrs.
Talbot came, carrying her bag of keys as usual, and from then until
almost seven she and Mother were shut away in Mother’s room. When she
came out I thought she had been crying, a fact so astounding that I
should have been less startled if I had seen a hippopotamus weep. But
her voice was as loud and resonant as ever when she met me in the upper
hall.

“Well, I understand they’ve taken Jim Wellington in again for
interrogation. It’s about time they took him and kept him!”

“If all the Crescent is determined to think him guilty it _is_ time,
Mrs. Talbot.”

I let her out myself. It was dark and windy and growing much colder. But
I was too utterly miserable to notice it then. I was thinking as hard
and as fast as I have ever done in my life. If the police found that
money buried in No Man’s Land, I knew what it would mean, especially if
it was buried among the trees where George had found the gold piece.
That bit of wood land was not far from the Wellington house, and began
perhaps two hundred feet from the end of the tennis court.

I went back to the kitchen and told Mary I should want no dinner. Then I
put on a heavy coat and started out. On the back path I met Holmes
coming in, and it seemed to me that he stopped and looked after me; but
I was beyond caring. Nevertheless, I did not strike for the wood land at
once. Instead I took the grapevine path which connects the rear of each
house with the other; and I remember wondering to see the Dalton place
as quiet and orderly as ever, with Joseph in the dining room and a faint
aroma of something spicy coming from an open kitchen window. It was hard
to believe that I had actually seen what had occurred the night before.

It was beyond the Dalton garage that the Wellington house, as it came
into view, surprised me by showing a light in the kitchen. My first
feeling was one of relief, that Jim had been released once more and was
at home again. That changed to surprise, however, as I kept on until I
was close under the kitchen porch.

There was a man inside, a tall man in an apron, who was smoking a
cigarette and eying rather dubiously a can of something or other which
he held in his hand. He might easily have seen me, but he did not, and
as I watched him I felt certain that I had seen him before. I had no
time to think about that, however, for the next moment he commenced a
curious performance which kept me rooted to the spot in amazement.

That is, he first did something or other to the gas range and then
backing off from it, began to toss lighted matches at it from a
distance. On what I think was the third try the effect was simply
astounding. There was a roar of exploding gas, and the door to the stove
oven came hurtling through the screen and landed on the rear porch,
followed almost instantly by the strange man himself, who proceeded to
fall over it.

There was a second or two of silence. Then the man sat up and commenced
a soft and monotonous swearing which I interrupted.

“Are you hurt?” I asked.

“Hurt! I’ve damned near broken my leg.”

He was getting up by that time, and now he looked out and saw me.

“Sorry, miss. I must have turned on the oven and forgotten about it. I’m
not used to a gas range.”

“So I imagine,” I said drily. “Has Mr. Wellington come back?”

“No, miss.”

“Then you’d better let me come in and show you about that stove.”

He did not want me; I saw that. But he put as good a face on it as he
could, and I went in and lighted the stove properly. He watched me
carefully.

“It’s really quite tame, isn’t it, when you get the hang of it?” he
said, and then added “miss” as an afterthought. I noticed then that he
had lost his eyebrows and some of his front hair, but he was distinctly
amiable in spite of it. “You see, miss, I’m not a cook; but I told Mr.
Wellington I’d try to carry on until—well, until things got settled.”

“If you carry on the way you’ve started, they’ll never be settled. And
you can tell him, when he comes back, that Miss Hall called. Louisa
Hall.”

He gave me a quick look, seemed to hesitate and then opened the screen
door, or what was left of it, for me.

“Very well, miss,” he said. “I’ll tell him.”

I started out from there for the woodland toward Euclid Street, but once
I turned to look back, and he was at the window watching me. Take it all
in all, I was puzzled and not too easy. Had the police taken over Jim’s
house in his absence, and was this man an officer of some sort, trying
to get himself a bit of a meal? Or was he a friend of Jim’s, there for
some purpose I could not know? He was no servant. That was certain.

But I could not take a chance on him. I looked regretfully toward the
woodland and then turned back home, to see when I turned the corner of
the Dalton house something which set me running as fast as I ever ran in
my life. That something was a thick column of smoke from one of the
chimneys of our house, and I knew that Mother had ordered the furnace to
be lighted.

That, with all the Crescent, meant that immediately the water pans on
all the radiators would be filled.

I ran like a crazy woman. Luckily it was now dusk and the dinner hour,
so that the kitchen windows which are like so many eyes peering out were
untenanted. I shot into our own kitchen, collided with Annie in a
passage carrying down Mother’s tea tray, and took the stairs two at a
time. But I was too late. Mother in her dressing gown was standing by
the radiator in the wing, and gazing down at that awful glove.

“Is that you, Louisa?” she called. “Come here a moment. What do you
think this is?”

“It looks like an old glove,” I said as calmly as I could.

“Then what is it doing there?”

“It doesn’t matter, does it?” I picked it up and looked at it. “It has
stove polish on it or something. I’ll throw it away.”

But Mother reached out and taking it from me, delicately held it to her
nose and sniffed at it.

“It’s boot polish,” she said.

I knew at once that she was right. It was boot polish. That was the
scent that had escaped me; a scent which took me back to my childhood
days, with my father standing with one foot on an old-fashioned boot-box
and fastidiously rubbing at his shoes.

“But who in the world polishes boots in this house?” Mother said. “Not
Holmes. He never polishes anything unless he’s forced to do so. I must
ask Annie.”

But the one thing I did not want was that Mother should ask Annie, or
show her that glove. Luckily the collision and the resulting damage had
delayed her somewhat, but I could now hear her slowly plodding up the
stairs, ready to see the significance of that glove, or of the stains on
it that Mother’s older eyes had overlooked. Ready to run downstairs with
it, examine it, talk it over.

I thought desperately of some way to divert Mother’s attention. She was
still holding the glove, and Annie was on her way down the hall with a
pitcher with which to fill the pans.

“There’s a new butler at Jim Wellington’s, mother,” I said breathlessly.
“And he blew up the kitchen range.”

“He _what_?” said Mother.

“Blew up the range. I was walking by, and the explosion blew him and the
oven door out onto the back porch.”

“And serves him right,” said Mother, outraged at this crime against
domestic order. “I never heard of such a thing. It was a new range, too.
They only bought it last year.”

But this expedient had had the proper effect. Glove in hand and still
indignant, Mother watched Annie fill the radiator pan and then sailed
back to her room. Inside it she looked absently at the glove, seemed
surprised to find she still held it, and finally dropped it into her
wastebasket.

This did not mean necessarily that the glove was safe. Rather the
contrary indeed, the Crescent expecting that its wastebaskets be emptied
at night when the beds are turned down, just as it demands fresh towels
in its bathrooms. And this waste goes into cans provided for the purpose
at the extreme rear end of each property. Rain or shine, bright morning
or late evening, our servants make these excursions. And I knew enough
about police methods by that time to realize that examination of waste
cans might well be a part of their routine.

Even if the glove escaped Annie’s sharp eyes, there was the question
whether I could safely make a night trip for its recovery. Lightning did
not strike twice, and I could hardly hope to repeat the Daltons’
foolhardy and reckless excursion. I managed to drop the advertising
portion of the paper into Mother’s basket so that it covered the glove,
and when Annie came up to turn down the beds I waylaid her in the hall.

“Annie,” I said, “I don’t think I’d go out by the rear door at night for
a while. We don’t know what all this is about, but it might not be
safe.”

“I haven’t any intention of doing that, Miss Louisa. Not with a
murdering lunatic about.”

“You might suggest to Holmes that he bring the waste cans onto the
kitchen porch.”

“They’re there now, miss,” she said primly. “Although what your mother
will say I don’t know.”

“I’ll take the responsibility for that, Annie.”

She gave me a small and cynical smile. Both of us would get it, it
implied, when the time came. But there was appreciation in it too. Annie
and I understood each other.

“Very well, Miss Louisa,” she said. “And it’s Mary’s evening out, and
she says she’s going out by the front door. I suppose you haven’t a key
for it?”

“You know very well that I have no key for it, Annie.”

She was standing beside me with the coffee tray in her hands, and I
surprised a look of sympathy on her face. She knew that I had no key,
had never had a key of my own.

“I’ve told her I’d wait up, so she needn’t ring the bell, miss. She’ll
be back at eleven.”

I agreed, of course. It meant that I, too, must wait until eleven or
later before I could retrieve the glove, but there was nothing else to
do. And I have reported this conversation in detail because it led to
what was to be the most exciting night of my life up to that time.




                                  XIV


I got Mother to bed by ten o’clock, putting her book and her glasses on
the table beside her, along with her folded clean handkerchief and her
glass of water. Her prayer book, of course, always lay there. And as I
did it I wondered about Miss Emily next door. What was she feeling that
night, after all her years of service? Was she utterly lost? Or was
there some sense of relief from the demands of that petulant and
querulous old woman, with the stick by her bed with which to summon
Emily remorselessly, day or night?

She had built herself no life at all, had Emily, save for her incessant
reading, her trips to the library for books. Margaret was different. She
had a life of her own, slightly mysterious but very real. She dressed
carefully, went out—to concerts, to the theater now and then. It was
even rumored that she had a small group where she played bridge for
infinitesimal sums of money; something of which the Crescent disapproved
on principle, although it bought lottery tickets at hospital fairs
without compunction.

When at last I went back to my room I was still wondering. Not only
about Emily and Margaret; about all our women. Save Helen Wellington,
none of us lived interesting or even active lives. It was as though our
very gates closed us away. The men went out, to business, to clubs, to
golf. They came back to well-ordered houses and excellent dinners. Even
old Mr. Lancaster had a club, although he rarely went there. But the
women! I remembered a call I had made on Helen Wellington shortly after
she married Jim.

“What do you do, all of you?” she asked. “You’ve got twenty-four hours a
day to fill in.”

“We have our homes, of course. You’ll find that we consider them very
important.”

“And that’s living? To know how many napkins go into the wash every
week?”

“We manage. It isn’t very exciting, of course. It was harder when I
first came back from boarding school, but I’m used to it now.”

“Used to it! At twenty! That’s ridiculous.”

And because she too was young I had told her about having to let down my
skirts before I came back for each vacation—that was when skirts were
very short—and turning them up laboriously as soon as I reached the
school again. She had thought it so funny that she had screamed with
laughter. But I wondered that night if it was really funny at all.

“Twenty,” she had said, “and they’ve got you. Well, they’ll never get
me.”

And perhaps it was as a result of those reflections that I took a book
that night and went down to the library.

By years of custom, on nights when Mother has gone to bed early I have
sat in my room with the door open, in case she might need something. Now
I went down and turned on all the lamps. Not the few we ordinarily use,
but all of them. And it was into this blaze of light that, at
ten-thirty, Annie showed Inspector Briggs.

He came in, pinching his lip thoughtfully, and with a faintly
deprecatory smile.

“Sorry to bother you again, Miss Hall.”

“That’s all right. I’m interested, naturally, if that word is strong
enough. That’s a good chair, Inspector.”

He sat down, remarking that the night was cold and the room warm; and
then said rather abruptly that he had dropped Jim Wellington at his
house on his way in.

“I thought you’d like to know,” he said, rather too casually.

“I can’t see why you took him in the first place,” I said.

“Well,” he replied, smiling again, “the police aren’t miracle workers.
They are only a hard-working plodding lot at the best, and the fact that
we’ve released Wellington doesn’t mean so much at that. The plain fact
is that we’ve got a fair case against him now, but nothing to take
before a jury. There’s a difference, Miss Hall!”

“And you’ve come here for help?”

He shook his head cheerfully.

“No,” he said. “I hadn’t meant to come here at all, but I saw the
lights, and you’re an intelligent young woman and as near to a witness
as we’ve got. I’d like to know, of course, what you dropped on the
pavement last night and went back for, but I suppose you won’t tell me,
eh?”

“My handkerchief.”

“You would swear to that, on the witness stand. Under oath?”

I was silent, and he nodded.

“You see what we’re up against,” he said. “I’ll not try to bully you.
Whatever it was, you’ve probably destroyed it anyhow. But it’s just
possible that that sort of silence can send the wrong person to the
chair. You might think it over. Our man thinks it was an envelope of
some sort.”

And when I still said nothing, he went on:

“We’ve followed up Daniels, the street cleaner you spoke of. Nothing
doing there, no blood, no indications whatever, no police record. He’s a
quiet man, rather eccentric, living alone on a street behind the
hospital. Has lived where he is for the last ten years with no
interruptions. Got a bit of shrapnel in his leg in the war. Seems to
have volunteered early in spite of his age, and not to have asked for
any compensation since. Rather likable chap, but reticent. Better than
his job, I imagine, although he doesn’t say so. In these times a man
takes what he can get.”

“So, because you like him, you would rather suspect Jim Wellington! Is
that it?”

He grinned.

“Well,” he said, “you see this shrapnel lamed him. He might have climbed
a pillar of that porch, but he’d need two arms and two legs. And I don’t
see him carrying the axe in his teeth.”

I had to confess that I had not noticed that the man was lame.

“I suppose nobody ever really sees a street cleaner,” I said. “You just
take them for granted.”

He nodded absently; he had already eliminated Daniels from his mind.

“These two women over there, the daughters. They are Mr. Lancaster’s
stepdaughters, I understand.”

“Yes. I suppose they really should be called Talbot; but they were quite
small when their mother married again. They have always used Mr.
Lancaster’s name. The Talbots didn’t like it much at first, I’ve heard.”

After that he asked me once more to go over what I had seen the
afternoon before, both inside and outside the Lancaster house. He was
particularly interested in my entrance when Margaret and I helped Emily
inside.

“Mr. Lancaster was in the library?”

“Yes. Lying back in a leather chair with his eyes closed.”

“Can you remember what he said?”

“Margaret asked him who had told him, and he said Eben. Then she asked
him if he had been upstairs, and he said no. She went out to get him a
glass of wine, and then he asked Emily if it was she who had found Mrs.
Lancaster, and if she had heard anything.”

“What did she say to that?”

“She said that she was dressing with her door closed, and that when she
ran to tell Margaret, she was running a shower. That’s about all,
Inspector. It was not until after he got the wine that he asked about
the money.”

“Oh, he asked about the money?”

“Not in so many words. He asked if anybody had looked under the bed.
Then Miss Emily remembered the gold, and she sat up and asked him if
that was what he thought. He said: ‘What else am I to think?’”

The Inspector considered this for some little time.

“Then, in your opinion, all these people acted as people would normally
act, under the circumstances?”

“I don’t know what is normal in such circumstances, but I should think
so.”

“Shocked, rather than grieved, eh?”

“Perhaps. I really don’t know.”

“You didn’t think Miss Margaret rather cool?”

“She is always like that, Inspector.”

“And you yourself, you have no suspicions whatever? Now listen, Miss
Hall. A particularly brutal murder has been committed. This is no time
for scruples. People are not sent to the chair on suspicion anyhow. It
takes a water-tight case before any jury imposes a death sentence, and
they don’t do it easily even then. It’s a pretty serious matter for any
group of men to send another one to the chair.”

I shivered, there in that warm room.

“I’ve thought of nothing else since it happened, Inspector. I am being
as honest as I know how when I tell you that I simply cannot conceive of
anyone I know killing that poor old woman.”

“Not even for money?”

“Not even for money. And as to that, you know as well as I do that that
money went before the murder. Unless you are willing to believe that
somebody had time to break into that house, kill Mrs. Lancaster, open
the chest, put the bags on the roof, drop them to the ground and carry
them to a car which nobody saw—even Eben or I myself—all in about
fifteen minutes.”

He smiled again, and resumed his thoughtful pinching of his lip.

“And also carried into the house those bags of lead weights. Don’t
forget them! And, now we’re on them, what about those weights, Miss
Hall? They’re used for other purposes, of course, but in the main I
believe they’re used in women’s clothes. Now, you’re a woman. Suppose
you wanted a lot of them. How would you go about it?”

“I haven’t an idea. Try a wholesale house, maybe.”

He nodded.

“Or several wholesale houses,” he added. He looked at his watch and got
up. “Well, it’s a queer case. Generally speaking, an axe is a man’s
weapon. Women run to pistols if they have them and are in a hurry; and
to poison when they have time and opportunity. If anyone in that house
had wanted to do away with the old lady, why not poison? Nobody would
have been surprised at her death, I gather; or suspicious, either.”

I remember all that, although I was listening with only half my mind.
What he had said about scruples had aroused something in me. All the
Crescent, I knew, regarded the police with distaste and resentment. It
would tell as little as it could, and yet expect them to solve the
crime. It was not fair. And people were not sent to the chair on
suspicion.

I had to make my decision quickly, for the Inspector was ready to go.
The gold piece, found not far from the rear of Jim’s house, I decided to
keep to myself. The glove also, although I was soon to realize that in
that I had committed an error so grievous that even now I wake up at
night to think about it. But the Daltons were different.

Then and there I told him about the night before.

He listened with fascinated interest, and I saw that he lifted his head
suddenly when I repeated Mr. Dalton’s speech on the path: “It’s sheer
madness, Laura. With all these policemen about.” And her reply, that she
did not care, and the more the better. He seemed irritated too that they
had reached the woodshed without the officer on guard at the back
discovering them; although I pointed out that the Lancaster planting had
been expressly devised to conceal the shed. But it was over the last
words that, he pondered for some time.

“Well, what have you found?”

“I know what I’m after. That’s something.”

And over Mr. Dalton’s odd and angry explanation: “If you’d been any sort
of wife to me.” And her statement that the police couldn’t hold _her_,
not for a minute.

“Intimating of course that we could hold him,” he said, pinching his lip
again. “Well, that’s interesting, to say the least. You’re sure she said
_them_? ‘I’ll find them’?”

“Absolutely certain.”

“And young Talbot suspects Peggy of knowing something! Well, she could
have got an impression of the lock to the chest, that’s sure. When was
it that Talbot saw Mr. Dalton around the shed?”

“Early yesterday morning. The morning of the crime.”

“And what was Talbot doing there himself?”

“He was looking for a lost golf ball. Both he and Mr. Dalton often
practice short shots back there.”

The Inspector got up and held out a large capable hand.

“Thank you,” he said. “I know this hasn’t been easy. But if Dalton is
mixed up in this it’s time we knew it. I’ll keep you out of it, of
course. They needn’t know who overheard them. We’ve got to remember too
that it may be only a jealous woman, hot on a trail of nothing more than
a letter or two! I suppose you don’t know why they live the way they do?
Not speaking and all that?”

“There may have been somebody else. But that’s years ago, of course.”

“It takes a jealous woman to hold a grudge, Miss Hall. They seem to get
some sort of a kick out of it. But one thing’s sure: she wasn’t jealous
of old Mrs. Lancaster!”

He said only one more thing that night that I recall, and that was
partly to himself.

“What I don’t understand,” he said, “is about the key to that chest. The
only object in doing away with it would seem to be to gain time; for an
escape, maybe, or to get rid of the gold. But nobody connected with the
case so far has apparently made a move to do either!”

From which I gathered that perhaps we were all being more closely
watched than we suspected.




                                   XV


The Inspector had given me plenty to think about after he had gone. Once
more I went over in my mind the Lancaster household and what I knew of
it: over Mr. Lancaster taking his daily walk, and Emily living her
vicarious life out of a loan library, and Margaret holding desperately
to her youth. Over Peggy too, cheerful and pretty, and maybe carried
away by Mr. Dalton and the attentions of a gentleman. But it was only
the same vicious circle. Who among them all would have done so terrible
a thing, or could have done it? And how was it possible for any criminal
literally smeared with blood to have escaped out of a locked and bolted
house into a brilliant summer day, without being discovered at once?

Mary came in at half past eleven, an hour which would have shocked
Mother, and I waited until both she and Annie had gone safely up to bed.
Then I went out to the kitchen porch on my rather grisly errand.

I found myself oddly nervous and apprehensive. The excitement of the day
before had vanished, and with it much of my courage. The fact that the
night was bright, with a clear cold moon, only seemed to make matters
worse. It exaggerated the shadows, and the wind turned every tree and
bush into a moving thing, alive and menacing. There was not even the
comfort of Holmes in his room over the garage, for he was once again
sleeping in the house at Mother’s order. Rather sulkily, I had thought.

I intended to burn the glove in the furnace, and even while I was
fishing in the can for it the thought of the dark basement rather
daunted me. And then, with the glove in my hand, I looked up and saw a
man standing on the path just below! That settled it. Police or not,
that glove had to go into the furnace before it was found; and in a
perfect hysteria of terror and anxiety I shot into the house and down
the cellar stairs.

I remember pausing only long enough to press the switch at the top of
the basement steps which lights the cellar, and then of running on down.
At the foot of the stairs, however, I stopped abruptly. I had not even
closed the kitchen door, an act so foolhardy that my first impulse was
to rush back again and do it. But there was the glove, damaging and
maybe damning, and ahead of me the long passage forward to the furnace
cellar, with the darkened doors which opened off it.

I had my choice and I took it. I went forward toward the furnace, and it
was when I had almost reached the small room where we store our fire
wood that I heard somebody coming down the cellar stairs.

I managed to turn and look behind me, but I could not have moved if the
house had been on fire. And still those awful steps came on, heavy steps
that were trying to be light. With their approach I made a final
superhuman effort, rushed into the wood cellar, fell over a piece of
wood that had slipped from the pile and simply lay there,
half-conscious.

I was aroused by the light of an electric flash on my face, and a
strange male voice that was not entirely strange, saying:

“Oh, I say! I _am_ sorry!”

“Who is it?” I managed at last. I could see nothing; and the voice
laughed a little.

“Well, I’m a friend,” it said, “although I don’t blame you for doubting
it. Are you hurt?”

I sat up, and between me and the door I could make out the figure of a
tall man, now bent forward.

“I’m mostly shocked and scared,” I said. “If you’ll get out into the
light so I can see who you are——”

He did so at once, and I saw that it was the man who had blown up the
Wellington range. But I saw something else; he had a flashlight in his
left hand, but his right held a blue automatic. He realized that too at
that moment, for he slipped it into his pocket.

“Sorry again!” he said lightly. “You see, I thought you were a burglar
when I heard you on the porch. And these being unhealthy days around
this neighborhood, I simply followed you in. Why in the world did you
leave the door unlocked? You ought to know better.”

“I forgot it,” I said lamely.

“Now that’s interesting.” He looked at me cheerfully. “That’s very
interesting. With everyone around here locked in against a possible
lunatic or against poor Jim, you forget to fasten the kitchen door!”

And then suddenly I remembered him.

“I know you now. You are a friend of his, aren’t you? I saw you there
one night, when Helen was giving a party.”

“Great party giver, Helen,” he commented briefly. “Well, every man to
his taste; every woman too,” he added. “And now, shall I go up and see
what you put into that can? Or will you tell me?”

“You are not a policeman?”

“Are you insulting me, young woman?”

But his eyes were sober enough.

“Look here,” he said, “can’t we go into the laundry and sit on the tubs
or something? You and I have some matters to discuss, and I’ve got a
stiff leg from that fall.” And when I hesitated: “Jim is counting on
you, Miss Lou; on you and me. He’s in a pretty tight place.”

Then and there I made up my mind, and I went back into the wood cellar
and got the glove. I simply handed it to him.

“I didn’t put anything into the trash can. I got this out of it,” I said
shakily, “and it can send Jim Wellington to the chair.”

He took it and examined it. Then without another word he led the way
back into the laundry, and while I sat on a box and he used the ironing
table (all the Crescent irons its table linens on a table) I told him
the whole story. When I had finished he did as Mother had done. He put
the glove to his nose and sniffed.

“Boot polish, of course,” he said. “And something else too,” he added
with delicacy. “Well, it’s hard to believe, isn’t it? Yet there it is.”

“There what is?”

“Our case. I wonder—” he checked himself, and smiled at me. “You’ve
given Jim a break tonight,” he said. “The first he’s had, and he
certainly needed it. Now go over it again, and let me listen.”

So I did, and he sat awkwardly on the laundry table and took it all in
without a word. When I had finished he nodded, put the glove into his
pocket and then slid to his feet.

“Good work, Miss Lou. It would be interesting to know just how Margaret
Lancaster found it, and whether she’s getting rid of it out of pure
altruism or not. But that can wait. The main thing is that we’ve got it.
We have a long way to go, little lady; it’s going to be darned hard to
prove Jim’s innocence. But that’s what I’m here for, and you too, I
gather.”

“I’d do anything I can,” I said shakily, and suddenly burst into tears.
He came over then and patted me on the shoulder, and I was conscious
that there still hung about him a faint odor of scorched hair. In spite
of myself that made me smile, and he touched his eyebrows ruefully.

“I admit I’ve lost something in looks,” he said. “You may not believe it
possible, but it’s true. Just now I’m glad it’s a cool night, for
lacking my eyebrows I’m like a house that has lost its eaves!”

His nonsense gave me back my control, which is no doubt what he
intended.

But he was noncommittal about himself and his presence there. It seemed
that his home was somewhere else.

“I’m here because Jim is in trouble,” he said lightly. “Frat brother,
you know; the good old grip and the magic word. Which, by the way, in
this case is silence.”

That was my second encounter with Mr. Herbert Ranchester Dean, usually
referred to by Helen as Bertie Dean; the criminologist who, working with
our own police, finally solved our crimes. Not for some days was I to
know his profession, nor for weeks of that laboratory of his which, when
I finally saw it, looked not unlike the one where Mother goes annually
for her various tests.

But of the man himself and his work he gave me the best description
when, after almost two weeks of death and absolute horror, the answer
was spread across the newspapers of every city in the country, and our
reign of terror was over.

“I am not a lone wolf,” he said. “I hunt with the pack. The actual fact
is that I’d be helpless without the police, while they need me only now
and then. They have the machinery, for one thing. What I have is a line
of specialized knowledge, odds and ends. Actually, I look after the
little things, while they do the big ones.

“They’ve got their machinery, men, radio, teletype, files—the whole
business of law and order. I’ve got mine. Mostly it’s a microscope! But
in this case I played in luck. Ordinarily the gloves, for instance,
would be their job; they’d find them and I’d tell them there was boot
polish on them, if their noses didn’t!

“To get back to the gloves. There had to be gloves. Two gloves. The
police knew that well enough; it takes two hands to use an axe. But you
turned up both of them for me, one after the other, and the story of the
crime was right there. All,” he added with his quizzical smile, “but the
identity of the criminal.”

But as I say, I knew nothing of all this that Friday night, the second
after Mrs. Lancaster had been killed; nor of Herbert Dean’s reputation
among the police of various cities. I did not know of Jim’s wire which
had brought him in a plane some five hundred miles in less than as many
minutes, although the police did! As a matter of fact, Mr. Dean’s first
visit on his arrival had been to the Commissioner. That had been on
Friday afternoon, after he had heard Jim’s story.

“What I would like to do,” he said, “is to look over the lay of the land
for a day or two, before even your own fellows know I’m on the case. If
that’s all right with you——”

“Anything’s all right with me, Dean. We’re in a hole over this case and
it’s falling in on us. It’s sink or swim.” And having thus neatly mixed
his metaphors, he inquired as to how Herbert Dean proposed to go about
it.

“I’m taking a job in the Wellington house. The story’s somewhere along
that Crescent, Blake. It has to be. And maybe the servants will talk.”

Which last reveals an optimism not justified by the facts. Our servants
may have talked among themselves, almost certainly they did. But never
did they more than pass the time of day with Mr. Herbert Ranchester
Dean, expert criminologist and for a few days what he called gentleman’s
gentleman and cook-butler to Jim Wellington.

But I knew nothing of this when, the glove carefully wrapped in a bit of
old newspaper, Mr. Dean slipped out the kitchen door like a shadow, and
I closed and locked it behind him. It was not until I got upstairs that
I became uneasy. After all, I had only this man’s word that he was
working for Jim, and that vague recollection of having seen him there
once on the porch at a party. It was well after twelve then, and from
that time until almost two in the morning I simply walked the floor,
uncertain and wretched.

It was two by my clock when I finally undressed, put out my light and
went to a window to raise the shade.

I was in that state of exhaustion which makes sleep a remote thing, and
so I stood by the window for a moment or two. Beneath me lay the two
gardens, the Lancasters’ and our own; and that strip of lawn where Eben
had been mowing the grass when Miss Emily had run shrieking out of the
house. Between the two properties is a thin line of Lombardy poplars,
slim and graceful, and suddenly a movement among them caught my
attention.

There was a man standing there, close to the trunk of one of the trees
and rather behind it. As I stared down he left his hiding place and
sliding from tree to tree began to make his way silently and more
rapidly than it sounds toward the rear and No Man’s Land. When he had
left the poplars he abandoned all caution and commenced to move rapidly
toward the rear. Who he was, whether tall or short, heavy or lean, I
could not tell.

I stood by the window, stunned with astonishment. Before me was the
Lancaster house, shrouded in trees save for that side entrance and for
the roof which rose above them. It was dark, except for the faint light
in Mr. Lancaster’s bathroom which he always kept on. Only when my eyes
traveled to the roof did I see anything unusual, and then my previous
astonishment turned to real alarm.

There was another man up there. A figure, anyhow. It was not erect. It
was crawling on hands and knees, slowly and cautiously; and now and then
it seemed to stop and to peer over the edge to where the mansard of the
third floor ended in a gutter. There was something so deliberate and
dreadful about the whole thing, outlined as it was against the moon,
that at first I could scarcely move. Then at last I got myself under
control and rushing down to the telephone, called the Lancaster house.

It was Emily who answered, her voice heavy and thick with sleep.

“What is it?” she said.

“It’s Louisa Hall, Miss Emily.”

“Good heavens, Louisa! Is anything wrong? I’ve had a sleeping powder,
and I’d just got to sleep.”

“Listen, Miss Emily. Please don’t be frightened, and don’t make a noise
or anything. I think there’s someone on your roof.”

“On the roof?” she said dully. “Are you sure?”

“Yes. He must have used a ladder to get there. If you’ll waken someone
and take away the ladder you’ll have him trapped, and I’ll get the
police.”

She made no immediate reply. She seemed to be standing there, undecided
and heavy with whatever narcotic had been given her. But at last she
spoke again.

“I can’t believe it; but I’ll tell Margaret.”

She did not even hang up the receiver, and I wondered what had happened.
Then I heard the sound of her rather heavy footsteps in the hall, and
knew that she was on her way to call Margaret.

When I went back to look at the roof the figure was gone. Perhaps
through the open windows it had heard the shrill sound of the telephone
bell. Indeed now I think there is no doubt of it. Anyhow that part of
the roof which I could see was empty; and when I had reached the street
and located the officer who was still on duty around the Lancaster
house, we could find no sign of any ladder whatever.

The officer was skeptical.

“Maybe you dreamed it, miss.”

“Dreamed it? I haven’t even been to bed!”

He eyed me in the moonlight.

“Keep pretty late hours around here, don’t you? For a quiet place.”

“Perhaps you consider it quiet. Personally I don’t.”

Margaret joined us on the front porch then, and was as much at a loss as
we were.

“It doesn’t seem possible, Louisa,” she said, with a worried frown. “I
got Father’s revolver, and Emily and I went up to the cedar room. The
ladder is where it ought to be, and nothing has been disturbed.”

I explained to the officer. Both the Lancaster house and ours have on
the third floor a small cedar room, with a trap door in the ceiling; and
each house keeps in the cedar room a portable ladder for the use of the
men who periodically go over the roofs and paint the gutters. It was to
this ladder that Margaret referred, and to this room that she took the
policeman while I went back home. Only a few minutes later I saw the
officer himself on the flat roof and staring about him, but apparently
he discovered nothing suspicious, and soon he too disappeared.

That was, as I have said, on Friday night, or rather early Saturday
morning. It was two-thirty when at last I crawled into bed, and fell
into the sleep of utter exhaustion.




                                  XVI


We do not oversleep in the Crescent, no matter what our nights have
been, and as I think I have said, we breakfast downstairs. Mother was
better that next morning, Saturday, and we were still at the table when
Miss Margaret came over and through the French door into the dining
room.

She was shrouded in black, even to her hat with its crêpe-edged veil,
and although it was not yet nine we knew she was ready for the ordeal of
the inquest. She had come to ask if Holmes could or would stay in the
house while they were all gone.

“It will be safe enough,” she said, “and I have never left the house
empty. You see we all have to go, even the maids.”

“Of course, Margaret,” Mother agreed. “Although I’d as soon put a rabbit
on guard. Still, if you want him—Certainly. Louisa can go with the
Daltons, although why she should want to go at all I cannot understand.”

Emily, Margaret said, was still asleep and not well. She had been in a
sort of daze for the last two days, and she would not rouse her until
the last minute. Upon which Mother insisted on ordering some creamed
chicken prepared and sent over later, and by going back to speak to Mary
left us alone for a minute or two.

I can still see Margaret suddenly throwing back her veil and bending
toward me.

“Tell me something, Louisa,” she said in a low voice. “Just what did you
see on our roof last night?”

“I don’t know,” I said honestly. “It looked like a man, on his hands and
knees.”

“On his hands and knees!” she repeated, astonished. “Just crawling
about, you mean?”

“He seemed to be that way so he could get to the edge; for safety. Or so
I thought.”

“And when he got to the edge?”

“I thought he looked over, into the gutter.”

“You didn’t dream all this?”

“I hadn’t even been to bed, Miss Margaret,” I said.

“At two in the morning?” Her keen eyes searched my face, and I felt
myself coloring.

“I’ve been worried. Naturally.”

That seemed to satisfy her, for she drew down her veil again and nodded.

“Jim, of course. Well, Louisa, I wish you’d keep it to yourself. The
servants are ready to bolt at any minute anyhow. And you may be wrong.
By the time I’d got Father’s revolver, and Emily and I got to the cedar
room, the trap was fastened and the ladder where it belongs. I’ve
convinced Emily that you had a nightmare, so it would better rest at
that. I wouldn’t even talk to her about it. Or to anybody.”

And of course I agreed.

Perhaps in writing all of this I have left out too much of the
excitement our murder had caused; have said too little of the curious
crowds which were held back at the gate by a uniformed policeman, but
which had discovered Euclid Street and No Man’s Land, and had
periodically to be driven out of the latter; have ignored the press,
bored and in the summer doldrums and so now in a state of hysterical
excitement. And it is possible too that I have underestimated the local
importance of the Crescent families.

Every city I dare say has its group of old families which in their day
have written the local history. In time they pass out of the social
columns and into the obituary; indeed sometimes they have to die to be
remembered. Nevertheless, the names still are important, and even their
ordinary deaths are news.

Now in one of these families had occurred a savage and shocking murder,
and since the crime both press and people had shown not only curiosity
but a very real pride in us. We discovered to our own surprise that we
were the last stand of fashionable exclusiveness, that we were among the
few survivors of an earlier and more formal age, that even royalty was
more accessible, and that our rare invitations were eagerly sought by
all the _nouveaux riches_ of the town!

And that propaganda had had its result by the time our various cars
started out that Saturday morning. There was a large crowd outside our
gates as I drove out with the Daltons, and downtown in the city proper
police reserves had had to be called out to control the masses who had
gathered to see the grieving family arrive for the inquest.

I had not been prepared for all this, and to add to my discomfort the
ride was constrained and painful. Bryan Dalton had barely spoken,
devoting all his attention to the car and now and then running a finger
around his immaculate collar as though it choked him. And Mrs. Dalton,
beside me in the rear seat and looking pale and drawn, had chattered all
the way; not so much to me as at him.

“Of course, Louisa,” she said. “You know and I know that no lunatic did
this thing. It’s my opinion it was thought out and worked out to the
last second of time. And who could do that?”

“I haven’t an idea,” I replied dutifully.

“Well, think about it! It had to be someone who knew all about that
house, didn’t it?”

“You can’t mean a member of the family!”

“I didn’t say that,” she said sharply. “There are other ways of finding
out. And even with all this money gone she must have left something.
Those two women ought to be well fixed.”

That was the only time Mr. Dalton spoke, and he spoke without turning
his head.

“You might say to my wife that I regard this talk about money just now
as execrably bad taste.”

She laughed her small frozen laugh.

“I would be interested to know when Mr. Dalton ever before regarded any
talk about money as in bad taste,” she said.

All in all, I was glad when we had reached the building, passed through
a barrage of camera men and the aisle made for us by the police, and
into the building itself.

It was my first experience of an inquest, and I had never even seen a
coroner before. This one turned out to be rather a hortatory person, who
explained to us and to the six men of the jury that a coroner’s inquest
is a preliminary inquiry, that it corresponds in many ways to an
examination before a magistrate, and that testimony is taken under oath.

“What we shall want here today,” he said to the jury, “is a truthful
statement from all witnesses so that you may render a verdict in
accordance with the facts.”

I suppose the jury had already seen the body, for one or two of them
looked rather white. And the formality of identification took only a
moment, Doctor Armstrong doing this for the family.

After that the medical examiner was called, to testify as to the nature
of the injuries. These he said had consisted of five blows with an axe,
any one of which must have rendered the victim unconscious immediately.
Most of them had been delivered on the right side of the head, but there
was one which had struck the neck, and severed both the carotid artery
and the jugular vein.

He considered it unlikely that the dead woman had survived the first
blow, or had suffered any pain whatever; this I suppose for the benefit
of the family.

The jury was then shown a map of the Crescent, and a detailed plan of
the Lancaster house. And following that came the first witness, Emily
Lancaster, who had discovered the body.

I do not think Doctor Armstrong had wanted Miss Emily to go on the stand
at all. She had insisted, however, and after giving her some aromatic
ammonia in water he helped her to her place. There was a murmur of
sympathy as she took the stand, and a breathless silence while in a low
voice she gave her testimony.

As to the time, she was absolutely certain.

“I have lived by the clock for so many years,” she explained. Otherwise
her story was as before, save that she added something to what the
police already knew. This was that while she was partially dressed she
had again heard a sound from the direction of her mother’s room, and
that she had then opened her door into the hall, but heard nothing and
went back to her dressing.

“What was the nature of this sound?”

“It was—I can hardly say. Maybe a door closing, or a chair being
overturned.”

“It did not occur to you to investigate further?”

“No. I listened and everything was quiet.”

They let her go at that. She looked so ill that even the coroner seemed
moved to pity. And after that the rest of us followed along with our
stories, Margaret, Eben, myself—highly nervous, Mrs. Talbot, the house
servants, and the police. Testimony was offered that the house was
carefully locked that day, and was still found locked after the crime.
Details of the search throughout the house for bloodstains of any sort
brought the crowd to the edges of their chairs, only to sit back when it
was learned that none whatever had been found. The events of that
afternoon were carefully detailed for the jury, Lydia Talbot’s brief
call, her sister-in-law’s longer one, her departure with Mr. Lancaster
at three-thirty, and the careful locking of the front door behind them.

I looked around the room. In the rear and standing I could see Mr. Dean
and in a corner, looking more interested than anxious, was Helen
Wellington. Mrs. Dalton had hardly moved since the inquest began, while
on the other side of me her husband was restless and clearly uneasy.

The crowd, avid for sensation, was growing restless when at last Peggy,
the Lancasters’ housemaid, was called, and the first stir came when she
told her story of seeing Mr. Lancaster return some five minutes after he
had left with Mrs. Talbot.

It stunned us all, including the old man himself. I saw him draw himself
up, and then subside into a chair again. Yet when he was finally called
he made rather a better explanation than we had expected.

“I had hoped to say nothing about this,” he said, straight-forwardly
enough. “But since it is known—My wife and I had had an argument that
morning. When I left the house I was still irritated, but on thinking it
over I decided to go back and apologize. After all, she was a sick
woman, and after so many years of marriage——”

His voice broke.

“Did you see her when you returned?” asked the coroner, smoothly.

“No. Everything was quiet, and I decided she was asleep. So I went out
again. I was not in the house two minutes.”

“Did you go up the stairs?”

“I did not.”

“Can you tell us just what you did do?”

“Easily. I walked into the hall, decided my wife was asleep, decided as
it was hot to leave my gloves on the hall table, and having done so went
out again.”

“That is all?”

“Absolutely all.”

“Now, Mr. Lancaster, will you tell us what this controversy with your
wife was about? I’m sorry, but it may have some bearing on this
inquiry.”

“It was a family matter.”

“Can’t you be more explicit than that?”

He hesitated.

“I can be entirely explicit,” he said at last. “It concerned the amount
of gold and currency she kept in the house. I considered it, among other
things, highly dangerous. In these days of crime——”

“It was not until you had left the house that you thought of that?”

“I had thought of it all along. But as I left the house with Mrs. Talbot
she spoke of it. She is here. You can ask her if you like.”

“Had there been any other reason for this anxiety of yours? As I
understand it, this hoarding had been going on for some months.”

It seemed to me that he hesitated again.

“No particular reason, no. My daughter Emily had claimed once or twice
to have heard someone on the roof at night.”

“So, as I understand it, you decided to go back and urge that the money
be placed in a safe place, and then changed your mind?”

“Precisely that, sir.”

“Are you certain that the front door was locked behind you when you
left?”

“Absolutely certain. In view of what was worrying me, I tried it after I
had closed it. It was locked.”

The remainder of his testimony referred largely to the events of the
earlier part of the day, which I have already given. To my surprise and
the disappointment of the crowd the matter of the chest and its contents
was dropped for the time.

I know now that the police, working with the coroner, had determined to
limit the inquiry as much as possible to the actual events of the day
and particularly of the afternoon of the murder. Then too there may be
rules as to evidence given before a coroner which eliminated the chest,
save as it actually bore on the movements of certain people on that day.
At the best I can only give my recollection of the questions and
answers, but I think I have been fairly accurate.

And then at last Jim Wellington was called and sworn.




                                  XVII


Jim seemed calm enough as a witness and he made—at least at first—a
good impression. But there was no getting away from the fact that he had
been in the house and in the room, and that he had tried to get away
without this being known. Questioned on this, however, he was firm and
unshaken in his statement.

Earlier in the day, he thought between eleven and twelve o’clock, he had
received word from Margaret Lancaster that her father wanted to see him
at four that afternoon. She gave as a reason his anxiety about the
amount of gold and currency in the house, and he had agreed to go.

He had left his car at his own house and walked to the Lancasters’. As
he had a key he opened the door and went in, but Mr. Lancaster was not
in his library and so, having waited a few minutes, he finally decided
to go up the stairs to his aunt’s room.

That must have been, he said, at four o’clock or perhaps a couple of
minutes earlier.

Mrs. Lancaster’s door was slightly ajar, and everything was quiet save
for Emily Lancaster talking to her bird across the hall. He pushed open
the door to his aunt’s room. The shades were drawn and at first he did
not notice anything wrong. Then he reached the bed and saw her.

He saw no axe or other weapon, nor did he look for one. His first
thought was that the family must not see the body as it was, and he
tried to draw the sheet over it. Unfortunately it lay partly on the
sheet and he did not succeed. And then he added, he had grown suddenly
wildly nauseated; the sight of blood had always done that to him, and of
course he was horrified as well.

He had made for the downstairs lavatory in the side hall and been
violently sick.

He was still there and still sick when Emily began to scream. Then his
own position began to dawn on him. There was blood on him. He decided
foolishly to try to slip out the side door and to get home. When he saw
through the screen door that Emily was on the grass and that I was
bending over her he knew it was no good; but by that time bedlam had
broken out upstairs in the house, and he did not try to go back.

“I was a fool to do what I did,” he added, “but I was still incapable of
consecutive thought.”

Some of all this had been question and answer, of course, but in the
main he told his story directly and frankly. It was only over a question
which followed that he seemed to hesitate.

“Did you hear any suspicious sounds before you went up the stairs?”

“Not sounds exactly. I thought someone was running upstairs.”

“You heard someone running?”

“Not exactly. There’s an old crystal chandelier in the hall, and it
jingled as though someone were moving very fast. The prisms swing and
strike each other. They did it then.”

“That was before you went up?”

“It was while I was walking back to the stairs.”

The coroner did not pursue the subject. He asked: “Were you familiar
with the key to the chest?”

“Very.”

“Where did the deceased keep it?”

“On a thin chain around her neck.”

“Did you see this key when you went to the bed?”

And then Jim’s nerves broke.

“Good God, no!” he said. “Do you suppose I was thinking about a key just
then?”

Peggy was recalled after that, and her statement as to when she had seen
Jim on the stair landing patiently gone into.

She had come out of a guest room in the wing and was on her way to the
back stairs when she saw him. She had not seen anyone else, or heard
anyone running.

“In other words,” as the coroner said later on, “if Mr. Wellington is
correct and someone was actually running just before he started up the
stairs, then that person’s escape was cut off from three directions;
from the front stairs, from the rear hall and from the back stairs
leading down to the kitchen porch where two women were at work.”

It was then that one of the jurors spoke up, much, I fancy, to the
annoyance of the police.

“The jury would like to inquire about the windows, Mr. Coroner. The
newspapers have stated that one of the screens in the—in Mrs.
Lancaster’s bedroom was found partially raised, and a flower pot
overturned. If that is the case we would like to know it. If someone
entered by the porch roof, or could have done so, we should know it.”

And much to his irritation the Inspector was recalled and obliged to
tell the facts. Even then there was no mention of the bloodstain on the
screen or the grass on the roof, but he admitted that the screen had
been found raised some four inches and the flower pot overturned.
Immediately following this, however, Mrs. Talbot insisted on being
recalled, and announced in her booming voice that the flower pot had
been overturned when she left her sister-in-law at three-thirty that
afternoon.

“Are you positive about that?”

“Certainly I’m positive,” she boomed in her big voice. “I tried to raise
the screen to set it up again. But I couldn’t move it an inch. It was
stuck tight.”

It was bad luck for Jim, and I felt my hands and feet growing cold.
Beside me Mr. Dalton muttered: “Damn the woman! Why couldn’t she keep
her mouth shut?” And Mrs. Dalton heard him and gave him one of her sharp
glances.

Nevertheless, the verdict when it came in was of murder by someone
unknown. Whatever the police believed, clearly they had no case against
Jim at that time, and I imagine the verdict gave them what they wanted,
which was time. I know now of course that they had been tracing back his
life for several months and had found nothing suspicious about it.

He was in debt, but not more so than any man with an extravagant wife
and a limited income. He was well known to all the banks, and had so far
as they could find no safe deposit boxes save his own. His dislike of
Mrs. Lancaster’s gold hoarding was a matter of record. He had not
speculated or been caught in the market, and his presence in the
Lancaster house that day at that hour was acknowledged by the family to
be the result of a summons by telephone.

But the press was disappointed by the whole procedure. It commented
rather sharply on the fact that little or no mention of the chest and
its contents had been made, although there seemed no doubt that the
gold—it preferred to ignore the fact that part of it was not gold at
all but currency—had provided the motive for the murder.

“The police admit that this gold is missing,” one paper said. “Then
where is it? How much of it was there? Gold is bulky and heavy. Could
the murderer have escaped with it, and if so, how?”

One enterprising journalist had figured that seventy-five thousand
dollars in gold, an amount which he seemed to have guessed with uncanny
accuracy, would weigh a total of two hundred and seventy-six pounds. But
on that morning when the Crescent left the inquest and started home, all
we knew was that Jim Wellington had won the first round in what might be
a fight for his life, and that the Crescent itself had for a time at
least been vindicated.

All of us saw Helen on the pavement outside. She was with another young
woman, both very smartly dressed, and before they got into a car Helen
had already lighted a cigarette. There was a man in the car, and he was
grinning cheerfully. But I was fortunately the only one who heard what
followed.

“Well,” he said, “which of them did it?”

Helen smiled back at him.

“Can you see them and still believe that Queen Victoria is dead? No
verdict. If you ask me, they’re all capable of it. Given a reason, of
course.”

“Such as?”

“Protection, pride, dignity—how can I tell?”

“What gets me is how you yourself overlooked that money, Helen!”

“I didn’t know it was there.”

Then they drove away.




                                 XVIII


Mrs. Lancaster was buried that same afternoon from a downtown mortuary
chapel. Owing to the enormous curiosity aroused by the case, admission
to the services was by card only, and for these Margaret had herself
made out the list.

It was the brief but beautiful service of the Episcopal church, and we
were back home again by four o’clock. The funeral had tired Mother, so
she went to her room, and thus at last I found time to follow George
Talbot’s suggestion of a visit to the woodland where he had found the
gold piece. For now at last I realized the vital importance of that
money, gold or whatever it had been, from the chest.

I was too late, however. To my astonishment the woodland was already
occupied by four strange men, and their procedure was so curious that I
stood fascinated, watching them. They had eight wooden stakes, a spade,
a hammer, several long pieces of twine and a can of water which I
recognized as Miss Emily’s watering can with the sprinkler removed; and
what they were doing was to drive the four stakes to form a large
square, outline it with cord and then divide it in the same manner into
four smaller squares.

Each man then took one square and on his hands and knees examined it
carefully. Every now and then one of them got up, took the can and
poured water onto the ground, while the others watched intently. How
long they had been doing this I did not know, nor did I know the purpose
of the water until that night, when Herbert Dean enlightened me.

“Looking to see if the ground had been disturbed,” he explained. “If it
soaks in quickly and there are air-bubbles, then they can know that the
earth has been dug up recently. And the woodland is obvious; it’s
sheltered, while the rest is open. But of course they’ll not find the
gold there.”

“Why not?” I asked.

“Because, my dear young lady, the person who committed that murder and
got away with that money is too smart to have buried it there.”

That conversation took place in Jim Wellington’s house late that night.
Mother, as if to make up for her inaction the day before, had stayed
down until eleven, insisting on game after game of cribbage until I had
gone nearly wild. Whatever she had feared after the murder, whatever had
made her bring Holmes into the house and speak so mysteriously to me,
she had been much more calm since she discovered that the gold was gone.
But my attempt to sound her out that night met with failure.

“Mother,” I said, summoning all my courage when at last she prepared to
go upstairs, “don’t you think that now you can explain what you said to
me on the night of the murder?”

“What in the world are you talking about, Louisa?”

I was chilled, but I had to go on.

“You know perfectly well, mother. I was not to go out of the house, day
or night. You said there was a reason.”

“Why should I explain that? It’s self-evident. And you did go out. I
happen to know that! You deliberately disobeyed me. If anyone had told
me that a daughter of mine——”

“Listen, mother,” I said earnestly. “It’s frightfully important. It may
be vital. What was it about spoiling two lives? That’s certainly not
self-evident.”

She was putting away the cribbage set, and I thought she stood for a
minute with her back to me as though she were undecided, if one can
imagine Mother being undecided about anything. Then very deliberately
she put away the set and closed the drawer. When she turned to me her
face was quite blank.

“I dare say I was merely sharing in the general hysteria,” she said
blandly. “I am not certain precisely what I said, but I was certainly
anxious about those two poor women next door.”

With that she admonished me as usual about locking the windows, and in
her long heavy black swept out of the room and up the stairs. Mother
must be well over sixty, for I was the child of her middle age, but she
still sits erect in a chair and moves with the dignity which is a part
of her tradition. I felt rather helpless as I watched her go, for I was
as certain then as I am now that she could have helped if she had wanted
to. I still marvel at her silence, at the pride or whatever it might
have been that kept her suspicions to herself, or to herself and Mrs.
Talbot. But here again I am up against the Crescent itself, its loathing
of publicity, its distrust of the police, and its firm belief that every
man’s house is his castle.

That was of course on Saturday night, and I had no intention of doing
anything but follow Mother up to bed.

But I did not get to bed until hours later.

Due to that false sense of security of Mother’s, that the thing was over
and done with, Holmes was no longer sleeping in the house; and as I went
upstairs myself I stopped at the rear window which overlooks the garage
and saw him in his room. Probably he had forgotten to draw the shade, or
was indifferent, for he was still fully dressed. Mother had gone into
her room. I stood by the window and gazed in surprise at what he was
doing.

What he was doing, so far as I could see, was cutting the pages out of a
book. He would take a knife, bend over a table, cut carefully and then
take out the page and drop it, either onto the floor or into a basket. I
could not see which. And he was working carefully and deliberately, so
far as I could tell, doing only one page at a time. It seemed to be slow
work, or perhaps he was clumsy; for he managed to take out only two or
three while I watched, and the whole performance was so mysterious that
when at last Mother called me I could scarcely tear myself away.

When finally I was free I was still curious. Holmes’s window was dark by
that time, but it occurred to me that in all this dreadful business
perhaps I had considered Holmes far too little. Certainly he knew a
great deal about us. If the Lancaster servants had known about the
money, for instance, he could easily have known also. I remembered that
time I had seen him with Peggy on the path.

Then too he could easily have known of the axe in the woodshed, and the
habits of the Lancaster house. True, he had had an alibi for the hour of
the murder; Mary had said he was having a cup of tea in the kitchen at
the time. But our kitchen clock is notoriously unreliable; that is, Mary
has a habit of turning it ahead, so that the other servants will get
down in good time to breakfast.

Therefore Holmes, having his tea before taking Mother out, might
actually have had it some fifteen minutes or so before four. And Holmes,
like Bryan Dalton, had an eye for a pretty girl. If the Lancasters’
Peggy was involved, it seemed to me that she was far more likely to have
been his tool in securing the gold than anyone else. The only stumbling
block seemed to be that, having already secured the money, the murder in
that case was utterly unreasonable. Unless of course he had needed more
time in which to dispose of it, or unless Mrs. Lancaster herself had
been suspicious.

But apparently she had not been suspicious at all. It was Mr. Lancaster
who, for some reason still unknown, had insisted on the audit on that
previous Thursday.

It was all too much for me, and so I determined to carry my new theory
to Jim and the Dean person. I had to wait for Mother to settle down, of
course, and she took a maddening time about it that night, making her
usual Saturday preparation by putting her hair in kid rollers and laying
out her church clothes for the morning. At last she slept, however, and
once again for the third successive night I crept out of the house.

I had expected to have to rouse the Wellington house when I got there,
and even to defy any officer detailed to watch the place. But neither
was necessary; there was a light in the library windows, and my tap on
one brought Jim himself to it.

“It’s Lou, Jim,” I said. “Can you let me in?”

“Go to the kitchen porch. I’ll open the door there.”

There was something conspiratorial in our movements; in the silence with
which the door opened and I slid in. But there was nothing
conspiratorial in the library, now miraculously restored to order, where
Mr. Herbert Ranchester Dean was hastily putting on a coat and lamps were
cheerfully burning.

“Well!” he said, “it’s the young lady of the cellar! Are you like your
fellow creatures who live in the basement, and only emerge at night?”

“I was at the inquest today.”

“Were you indeed? And what did you think of our little performance?”

“I’m more interested in one I saw an hour ago,” I told him, and took the
chair he offered me.

Suddenly his light manner left him and I saw him as he was, shrewd, keen
and observant. But he finished lighting his pipe before he asked me
about it.

“What was that?”

“It’s about our chauffeur, Holmes, Mr. Dean,” I said. “Why do you
suppose he would be cutting the leaves out of a book tonight and then
throwing them away? What is he trying to get rid of?”

He sat up suddenly and put down his pipe.

“He was doing that?”

“I watched him in his room, about an hour ago.”

“What sort of book? Could you tell? Was it large or small? And what did
he do with the pages?”

“He threw them down, either onto the floor or into his wastebasket. I
know there is one there. And it seemed an ordinary sized book. It might
be a detective story. He reads a lot of them.”

“Has he an open fire in his room?”

“No. It is heated by a radiator, from the house.”

I thought even Jim was puzzled by his intensity and the speed of his
questions. He got up, as though he were about to start out after Holmes
at once. Then he reconsidered and sat down again.

“That will keep,” he said. “Either he’s burned them already, or he’ll
dispose of them early tomorrow morning. If they’re gone they’re gone. If
not——”

He did not finish this, but sat drawing at his pipe and thinking.

“Just what do you know about this man?” he asked at last.

“Well, very little really. What does one know of people like that? I
believe he bootlegs for George Talbot and Bryan Dalton now and then,
although Mother doesn’t suspect it. And he speaks sometimes of a place
in the country; just a small place, but I imagine he either stores
liquor there or makes it.”

“You don’t know where it is?”

“No.”

He seemed to consider that too, but the next moment he startled me.

“By the way,” he said suddenly. “Did you by any chance ring up the
Lancasters last night, about two hours after I left you?”

“Yes, I did. Good heavens, don’t tell me you were the man on the roof!”

He smiled and shook his head.

“No, but I was the man on the ground if you happened to see me. You
scared him away, you know. That telephone bell did it. What did Margaret
Lancaster say when she came down to the front porch?”

I told him; that the cedar room trap was closed and the ladder in its
place, and he nodded thoughtfully.

“I see,” he said. “Of course it took some time to get there. Emily isn’t
a fast mover. Well, it’s all rather curious.”

He lapsed into silence, and Jim spoke for the first time. He had
remained standing since I entered, leaning against the mantelpiece with
his hands thrust deep in his pockets, and I thought he looked tired and
harassed.

“Thanks a lot about the glove, Lou,” he said rather awkwardly. “It’s
mine, of course, or was, although I don’t know how it got into that
house, or when I saw it last. I don’t wear gloves in the summer,
scarcely ever carry them. I’d put the date at somewhere last spring;
early in June, maybe.”

“You didn’t leave it at the Lancasters’?”

“I might at that. I simply don’t know.”

Mr. Dean looked up.

“You know this Crescent pretty well, Miss Lou. Who would you say uses
boot polish around here? I suppose the butler, Joseph, at the Daltons’?
And old Mr. Lancaster does his own, I imagine. Who else?”

“I don’t know. Possibly Holmes, although Mother says he hates to polish
anything.”

He thought that over before he spoke again. “Well,” he said, “of course
we need the other glove, but I’d say the chances are two to one against
our finding it. You see, Miss Lou, a man may and usually does polish his
boots with one hand; but he uses two hands on an axe. He’s got to. And
that’s why we want the second glove.”

It was after that that he asked me about the Crescent itself.

“Funny place, this Crescent,” he said. “What about the Talbot woman, for
instance? And why does she lock herself away? What was Mrs. Dalton
hunting for, the night of the murder? And why does he look like a
whipped dog? Then whose prints are those on the chest? I’ve got an idea
I know, but it’s probably too late to prove it. Certainly they don’t
check with those of the Lancaster family or the servants.

“Then again, does anyone in the Crescent suspect anyone else? You might
know that. They’re a secretive lot, but they know each other well and
some of them are interrelated. Take Jim here, and I believe the Talbots
are connected, aren’t they?”

“Mrs. Lancaster’s first husband was a brother of Miss Lydia’s, and of
Mrs. Talbot’s husband. I think—” I added hesitatingly—“I think Miss
Lydia suspects that either Miss Emily or Miss Margaret did it.”

“Did she say so?”

“Not exactly. She said she supposed they’d stood it as long as they
could.”

“Now that’s interesting! Stood what? The old lady was hard to get along
with, I gather.”

“Probably, but I don’t think Lydia meant it really. She was dreadfully
upset.”

“Well, nerves with women are often like wine with men; they bring out
indiscreet facts. However—! I suppose there’s a Mr. Talbot?”

And Jim gave me a real surprise when he said that there was.

“Although he may be dead now. He ran off when George was a baby, and has
never been heard from since. It was pretty well hushed up at the time,
and of course I don’t remember it; but there was a miserable story
connected with it. That was years ago.”

It was so utterly incredible to me that I laughed. To learn all at once
that that crayon portrait had had more than a head and shoulders; had
had legs to run away with and emotions to feel and resentments to drive
it off! But nobody noticed me.

“Is that why she locks up everything and everybody?”

“By George, it never occurred to me!” Jim said slowly. “It may be.
Still, it’s absurd on the face of it. It must be twenty-five years ago.
Maybe thirty.”

But Mr. Dean was apparently tired of ancient history. He asked me if
Holmes was a hard sleeper and an early riser, to which I replied yes and
no; and a little later on he explained to me, as I have said, the
intensive method of search I had witnessed that afternoon.

“But they’ll not find it there,” he said. And added: “Whoever got away
with that money was too intelligent for that.”

I left him standing by the fire, and Jim took me back to the kitchen
door again. He was silent until we reached it, then with his hand on the
doorknob he said:

“What on earth made you go to see Helen, Lou?”

“I suppose—I didn’t know about Mr. Dean, and I thought you needed
looking after,” I told him.

“Well, she’s coming back. Not because it’s her duty, she says, but
because she doesn’t want to miss anything!”

And with the memory of the utter bitterness of his voice in my ears I
got myself home somehow and into bed. As I went back I could see that
across toward Euclid Street the men were still at work with lanterns and
electric lamps. They had moved considerably since the afternoon, and
there was something sinister and ominous about that painstaking
inch-by-inch search, and about the shadowy figures as they crept along
close to the ground.




                                  XIX


The second glove turned up the next day, but by the time it did we were
too busy wondering about Miss Emily’s adventure of the night before even
to think about it.

For it was that night, a Saturday, or rather at two o’clock on Sunday
morning, that Miss Emily Lancaster ran out of her home and sought
sanctuary in the Talbot house. Ran just as she was, in a dressing gown
over her long-sleeved nightdress and in a pair of bedroom slippers, and
stood hammering on their front door until George Talbot opened it for
her.

Just what had happened I do not know. Even now the Crescent can only
largely surmise. I know that when I went back to our house at one
o’clock I noticed that the Lancaster house, or such part of it as I
could see, was still lighted; and that this surprised me. I know too
that by the time I was ready for bed it was dark again. But I heard no
noise, and I dare say I should never have known about that flight of
Miss Emily’s at all, had not George Talbot come the next morning to tell
me.

It was a Sunday morning, and breakfast is later that day. But I was down
early, anxious to see if anything had happened about Holmes and his
book. Nothing had apparently, for he was sitting, small and semi-grimy
and entirely cheerful, over a substantial breakfast in the servants’
dining room.

He rose when I went to the door and grinned sheepishly; and I saw then
that he had been reading Mother’s newspaper, which is supposed to be
untouched until it is placed beside the coffee tray for her.

“Just taking a look at the inquest, miss,” he said. “Looks as though the
press had it in for the police, as well as for Mr. Wellington.”

“They have to have somebody, Holmes.”

He gave me one of his furtive looks.

“Maybe. Maybe not, miss. I was wondering if I could have the afternoon
off. I’d like to go out to my little place, if it’s convenient.”

“I think it will be all right. Just where is this little place of yours,
Holmes?”

But he was noncommittal. “Out the North Road a ways,” he said, and
thanked me.

I did not pursue the matter, a fact which I have since regretted; but
just then I saw George Talbot, aimlessly knocking a golf ball about and
keeping an eye on the rear of our house, and I wandered out to the back
garden, where he joined me.

“I want to talk to you,” he said in a low voice. “How about the garage?
Where’s Holmes?”

“Eating his breakfast.”

We sauntered as casually as possible toward the garage, George swishing
his club about as though looking for a lost ball. Probably all this was
unnecessary, for I knew the servants would have joined Holmes at the
table, and except for the Daltons no one else could see us. Once inside,
however, George’s manner changed.

“Listen here, Lou,” he said. “There was hell to pay last night. See what
you make of this.”

Then he told me. He had been out to dinner and bridge, and got home at
one. His mother had been hard to rouse, but at last his Aunt Lydia had
heard him, and securing the front door key from Mrs. Talbot, had let him
in. He was in a bad humor, apparently.

“It’s such senseless absurdity,” he said. “And she’s getting worse, Lou.
She’s had bolts added to some of the window locks since the murder, and
getting into her room is like getting into the Bastille. That with a
woman who is normal in every other way! I’ve tried to get her to a good
psychiatrist, but you’d think I’d suggested giving her poison.”

The story, however, had little or nothing to do with Mrs. Talbot’s
aberration or whatever it was, except that Miss Emily was apparently
escaping from something, and had chosen the safest place she could think
of.

George had been too irritated to go at once to sleep. He had tried
reading instead, and at two o’clock he heard someone ringing the bell
and then pounding on the front door. He heard Lydia moving in her room,
and he met her in the upper hall. She still had the front door key, and
he snatched it from her and ran down the stairs.

Emily Lancaster almost fell into the hall when he opened the door. She
was as white as paper and looked wild and terrified.

“Hide me, George,” she gasped. “Hide me somewhere. They’re after me.”

He fastened the door behind her, and she seemed to come to herself
again, enough at least to draw her dressing gown around her. Lydia had
come down by that time, and Emily had collapsed into a hall chair and
was staring ahead of her with a strange look in her eyes. As George
said, there was no sentiment about his Aunt Lydia, so she went to her
and shook her by the shoulder.

“Don’t be an idiot, Emily,” she snapped. “You’ve had a nightmare; that’s
all. Who on earth could be after you?”

George had brought her some brandy by that time, and she gulped it down.
She looked better, but it had the effect of making her sorry for
herself, and for the next few minutes she cried and told of her long
years of service and no life of her own. But they could not get her to
say what she was afraid of, or to tell who she thought was after her.

In a half hour or so she was better, however, and her story was an odd
one.

Her room is on the front of the house, as I have shown, and across the
hall from her mother’s. She had gone to bed early, after taking another
sleeping powder. Her stepfather and Margaret were shut in the library
talking, she thought, about her mother’s estate. And she went to sleep
almost as soon as she went to bed. She had locked her door, of course.
They all did, since what she referred to as their trouble.

She did not know how long she had been asleep when something roused her.
It was a movement or a sound on the porch roof, and she sat up in bed
and saw a figure outside. It was quite clear in the moonlight, but not
clear enough for identification, and it seemed to be crouching and
trying to raise her window screen.

She herself was too frightened even to scream. She slid out of her bed
and caught up her dressing gown and slippers. Then she unlocked her door
quietly and escaped into the upper hall. She tried her sister’s and
father’s doors, but they were both locked; and then she thought she
heard the screen being raised, and she simply ran down and out of the
house; much as she had run the day of her mother’s death. Only this time
she had used the kitchen door.

That was her story, and although by the time he got it more than a half
hour had passed, George got his automatic and went at once to the
Lancaster house. He examined it carefully from the outside, finding no
one, and had finally rung the doorbell. After some time Margaret
admitted him, opening the door on the chain first, and only taking off
the chain when she had turned on the porch light and identified him.

She had been fairly stunned by his story.

“Emily!” she said. “Do you mean she is at your house now?”

“She is. Aunt Lydia is putting her to bed.”

“But I don’t understand. Why didn’t she rouse us? Father sleeps heavily,
but I am easy to waken. Of all the ridiculous things to do!” She was
puzzled and indignant, but George was not interested in how she felt.

“I’d better take a look at that screen,” he said. “She may have dreamed
it, but again she may not. I imagine,” he added drily, “that it would be
a pretty real dream to send her out of doors in her dressing gown and
slippers at this hour of the night.”

They went up the stairs quietly, so as not to arouse the household, and
into Emily’s room. The coverings on the bed had been thrown back, and on
a chair neatly folded were her undergarments. Everything was neat and in
order; her tidy bureau was undisturbed, her bookcase, her desk.

Only the hook where her bird cage usually hung beside a window was
empty, and it was at this screen that Emily had seen the figure.

From the inside the screen had apparently not been disturbed, and
Margaret was willing to let it go at that. George, however, was wide
awake by that time and pretty thoroughly interested. He raised the
screen and got out onto the porch roof, and there lighted a match or two
to examine it.

“And if someone hadn’t tried to lift it from the outside, I’ll eat it,”
he said. “He’d put a chisel or something of the sort underneath to raise
it; enough to get a fingerhold, I suppose. Then, he heard her either in
the room or running out of the house, for he lowered it again and got
away. Slid down a porch pillar and beat it. It was no dream of Miss
Emily’s, Lou. Somebody was there, and that with one policeman at the
gate and another patrolling the Crescent. It doesn’t make sense!”

“But why?” I asked. “Who would want to get at poor old Emily Lancaster?
Who wants to wipe out the family, George? For that’s what it looks
like.”

He sat on the step of the car, making idle circles with his mashie on
the cement floor, and I noticed that his face had darkened.

“I had an idea once that maybe I knew,” he said, “but this kills it.”

“What sort of idea?”

“Oh, nothing much. If it had been our house I’d say that the thing one’s
afraid of is the thing that happens—whatever that may be. Meaning
Mother!” He spoke lightly. “But this washes that out, of course.”

He got up.

“I just thought I’d tell you. Otherwise we’re to keep quiet about it,
and I’ve advised Emily to have some bars put on the windows tomorrow.
Now, if we had an alibi for old Jim for last night we’d be all right. As
it is——”

“George! You don’t think it was Jim?”

“No, but who cares what I think? There was somebody there, that’s sure.
You can see the marks he made climbing one of the porch pillars. He
broke a part of the lattice too. Well, I’ve got to go. I’ve promised
Margaret to bury Emily’s bird.”

“The bird?” I said. “It’s not—dead?”

“Pretty thoroughly dead. No water. Everybody forgot it, and water
evaporates pretty fast this kind of weather. Margaret asked me to take
it, cage and all, for fear Emily finds it. If anyone wants it later and
I’m not around, it will be behind the old barrel in the corner of our
stable. No need to leave it where the poor old girl might see it and
have a fit.”

He went along then cheerfully enough, but leaving me filled with dismay
and remorse. Long after he had disappeared I remained in the garage,
grieving over a little yellow bird which had had to die of hunger and
thirst. Indeed I was still there when Holmes came out, after his
breakfast.

He did not see me at first. He came into the garage whistling and moved
directly to a corner, where with his foot he stirred up and scattered a
small heap of fine black ashes on the cement floor. It was only when
that was done that he glanced up and observed me. He looked startled,
but he managed a grin.

“Burned some letters last night,” he said. “Never keep anything around
that will get you into trouble. That’s my motto, miss. And your mother
is down for breakfast.”

I went out, my mind confused in many ways but entirely clear on one
point. Mr. Dean would never find the pages Holmes had cut out of his
book.

I was depressed when I left the garage. It seemed to me that we would
never solve our problem, that clues came and went and still led nowhere.
And yet it was that very morning that I found the second glove; found it
indeed in a spot which had been examined over and over the afternoon and
evening after the crime.

This was under the dining room window at the back of the Lancaster
house, and almost directly beneath Margaret Lancaster’s bedroom.




                                   XX


Outwardly that Sunday morning on the Crescent differed little from any
of the innumerable ones which I can remember. Our servants divided as
usual, one out and one in; where there were three one took the day off,
one went presumably to eleven o’clock service and one remained at home
to prepare the heavy midday dinner which after the week’s light
luncheons sent most of us into a coma during the afternoon.

And the Crescent allows no decent interval for grief. One submits to
what Mother calls the Eternal Will, puts on one’s heaviest black, and
shows to the world an unbroken front of submission to God.

At a quarter to eleven then the road was lined with cars, the Daltons’
sedan, our own limousine, the Lancasters’ hired car and George Talbot’s
aged roadster with Lydia in the rumble seat, where she got all the dust
and wind. But Emily Lancaster did not appear. She had been brought home
and put to bed, and our Mary reported that she had looked like a ghost.

I was an interested onlooker at all this, having begged off with a cold
which was real enough at that. I stood on the porch and waved Mother
off, and I remember watching the other cars go by, each laden with
black-draped figures; and wondering if there was not someone in that
funereal group who would kneel that morning under the stained glass
windows of St. Mark’s and beg an unseen God for forgiveness and mercy.

It was a bright morning. The cold spell had gone, but there was a hint
of autumn in the garden. Back in No Man’s Land a small child, as if
aware that the overlords had departed, was trundling a red wagon, and
across the intervening strip I could see that Mrs. Lancaster’s windows
had been raised, as though by airing the room they could somehow remove
the last trace of the little old woman who had died in it.

Except for those opened windows and what they suggested, the Crescent
had resumed its normal appearance. The curious crowd had gone from the
gate; hereafter it would follow our story in the newspapers and not on
its feet. Reporters no longer lay in wait to trap us as we entered or
left our houses. Even the guards were gone, and either the police were
taking a Sunday holiday or the search in No Man’s Land had been
abandoned.

But if the front of the Crescent was quiet, the rear was not. The moment
the cars had all departed it bloomed into life and activity. The maids
sang or laughed, and after a time there was a gradual emergence from the
houses, and a conversation apparently on the kitchen porch of the Dalton
house, where I gathered that tea, and probably cake, was being served.
Ellen from the Lancasters’ was the first to go, followed by our Mary,
Annie being out that day. And before long the austere black-robed figure
of Lizzie from the Talbots’ came into view along the path, and she too
joined the party.

The thing interested me. It was the first time I had seen our grapevine
telegraph in full operation, and I watched it from the rear window of
the upper hall. What did they talk about together, these servants of
ours, so many of whom had lived with us for many years? What did they
think? What did they know? For I was certain that they knew something,
perhaps many things.

What, for instance, did Mrs. Talbot’s Lizzie know about that strange
locking up? Or the Daltons’ Joseph of that search a few nights before?
Or about the quarrel which long ago had separated master and mistress?

All this was running through my mind when I saw Mr. Dean emerge from
across No Man’s Land, casually following the path and looking in his
dark clothes very much indeed like a gentleman’s gentleman returning
from a Sunday ramble. I saw him glance toward the Dalton porch and then
look away; and I saw him finally reach our garage, well shielded from
that porch, try the door to the staircase which leads to Holmes’s living
quarters, find it locked, and then—sheltered from any but my
observation by the shrubbery—take a key book from his pocket and
carefully experiment with the lock. It was less than a minute until the
door opened and he disappeared inside.

St. Mark’s is well downtown, and I was confident that he had an hour at
the least before Holmes would return. Nevertheless, I was relieved when
in some ten minutes Mr. Dean reappeared, cautiously closed the door,
which has a snap lock, and then entered the garage below. But all this
was more than my anxiety could bear, so I snatched up my garden scissors
and a basket and was in time to come almost face to face with him as he
emerged. He touched his cap and greeted me cheerfully.

“What! Not at church?”

“I had a headache. Or a cold. I forget which.”

He laughed at that, and glanced quickly toward the Dalton house.

“Better cut some flowers,” he said, “and I’ll stand at a respectful
distance. I don’t think they can see us, but they might. Your man Holmes
is a pretty clever rascal, Miss Lou.”

“Then it was a crime book?”

“It was; it had to be. He has no other sort! By the way, you haven’t
missed any glue from the house lately, have you?”

I almost dropped the scissors.

“We have indeed,” I told him. “Mary keeps some in the pantry, and she
said yesterday it was gone.”

He nodded, without surprise.

“You have no idea when, I suppose?”

“Some time in the last week.”

But apparently he had no intention of explaining what he meant, and his
next question surprised me.

“This Daniels, the street cleaner,” he said. “He seems to have had a
place back here where he burned his leaves, when he had too many of
them. What about him? Pretty observant sort of chap?”

“I don’t know. The servants say he is queer. I’ve thought of him
already, Mr. Dean. But the police have looked him up; his uniform too,
for stains. They couldn’t find anything. Anyhow, Holmes burned the pages
of that book in the garage, on the cement floor. I saw the ashes this
morning.”

He showed no signs of disappointment, but he was clearly surprised when
I told him about Miss Emily’s experience of the night before. He
listened in his usual intent manner.

“‘_They’re_ after me,’” he repeated. “What did she mean by that, do you
know?”

“Not unless she thinks all this is the work of a gang of some sort.”

“Nonsense! What sort of a gang?” he demanded. “No gang did this job.”
Then he glanced toward the noise at the Daltons’.

“How long is that likely to last?”

“I don’t know. Probably until twelve. They’ll start then to cook the
dinners.”

He looked at his watch and nodded.

“See here,” he said. “I’d like to get into the Lancaster house. I have
Jim’s key and I’ve forty-five minutes. Who do you suppose is still
there? Emily, of course. What servants?”

“No servants. Peggy is out for the day and Jennie is off for church.
Only Emily, and she’s probably asleep.”

He looked at me with admiration.

“Just like that!” he said. “The more I see of you all, the more I am
filled with wonder at our criminal. Everything known to the smallest
private detail, and yet——! Well, are you ready to chance it? I shall
need a lookout, you know.”

“I’ll come, of course. But if you are working with the police, why not
do it openly, Mr. Dean? Suppose Emily is awake?”

“I’ll take care of Emily. And I’m not working openly with the police. I
can do more under cover, and they know it.”

I was uneasy, but the thing turned out to be simplicity itself. On any
indication that the meeting at the Daltons’ was over I was to ring the
front doorbell as a warning. Then before Ellen had had time to return
Mr. Dean would be out of the house. In the meantime I was to wander
about the rear of the Lancaster property, ready to give the alarm.

It worked perfectly. No sounds of excitement came from within the house.
I wandered about, first in the garden, then gradually reaching the
kitchen porch. There I finally settled myself on the doorstep, curled up
like a cat in the warm sun. I heard a window raised above my head, and
as cautiously lowered, but Emily evidently still slept and no one
emerged along the grapevine path to indicate that the gathering at the
Daltons’ was breaking up.

Then, idly following an insect of some sort as it crawled along the edge
of the house wall, my eyes fell on a smallish round object underneath
the dining room window, and I found myself staring at it. It lay in a
wash of sand and gravel from Thursday night’s heavy rain, and it looked
not unlike a bit of rock itself, half buried as it was.

I got up and was stooping over it when Mr. Dean spoke, just beside me.

“So you’ve found it,” he said calmly. “Well, don’t touch it. Can you get
me a trowel of some sort and a box? And we have only ten minutes, maybe
less.”

I took the hint and hurried back home. I dare say I was back in five
minutes or so, but I was just in time. Louder voices from the Daltons’
told me that that unofficial investigation over tea and cake was over,
and indeed Mr. Dean had just time to shovel up the glove and drop it
earth and all into the box when I heard Ellen and Lizzie on the path.
When they came into view, however, he had disappeared around the far
corner of the house, and I was knocking vigorously at the kitchen door.

Ellen came on a run.

“I just slipped out for a minute, miss,” she panted. “Is there anything
you want?”

“Only to ask for Miss Emily. If she’s still asleep I’ll not bother her.”

That was at twelve o’clock, and I went back home to find a rather
irritated Inspector Briggs ringing our doorbell.

“Just began to think the whole Crescent had gone to church for
absolution!” he said when he saw me. “I’d like to have a talk with you,
Miss Hall. Something has come up, and I think maybe you’ll know.”

I took him into Mother’s downstairs sitting room, which corresponds to
the Lancasters’ morning room, and put him in a large chair. But he did
not sit back in it. He sat on the edge, fumbled in his breast pocket and
brought out a letter.

“Of course,” he said, “in a case of this kind we get anonymous letters.
Everybody’s got an opinion and wants us to have it without getting mixed
up in it. This is different. It comes from around here. It was mailed
from the Liberty Avenue branch post office, for one thing; and—well,
read it first.”

I took it. It was printed in pencil on a ruled slip of paper such as
comes in tablet form; not unlike the sort we keep about the house for
menus and dinner lists, and it read as follows:

“If you want to know who killed Mrs. Lancaster, ask her daughter
Margaret. Ask her too who she has been meeting for the last few weeks at
night near the woodshed. She has played a dirty game and ought to get
caught. He has got the money, but she took it.”

I put it down and stared at the Inspector, who was pinching his lip.

“Well?” he said.

“I don’t believe it.”

“Maybe. Maybe not. I’ll bank that she didn’t kill her mother; unless
she’s even smarter than I think she is. We found no blood and no bloody
clothes in that house. But Dalton’s different.”

“Dalton!”

“Sure. Dalton and she have been pretty thick for some little time. The
back of the Crescent knew it if you didn’t. That letter probably came
from one of the servants. Maybe one of yours! Remember, I’m not saying
there was anything wrong about these meetings, but there you are. Now,
if we suppose this Margaret was getting out the gold as fast as it went
in, and notified Dalton that last day Wellington was coming for a sort
of general audit, you get the idea.”

“But her own mother!” I gasped.

“Worse things in this business than that,” he observed. “Or as bad,
anyhow. Every now and then some loving daughter blows up and there’s
trouble. I’m not saying it’s true, and I have a pretty shrewd idea that
you’re close-mouthed or I wouldn’t have told you. But you live here. You
may know something. You may even have written that letter! Did you?”

“No,” I said, feeling slightly dizzy. “Then that night after the murder
Mrs. Dalton——”

“Sure,” he agreed. “She’d got wind of something, and was on the hunt.
For letters, very likely, and maybe for something else.”

He got up.

“That’s only theory, of course,” he said. “But don’t underestimate the
passions of older people, young lady. They go to queer lengths
sometimes, although you may not believe it. Funny thing,” he added, “how
two intelligent people like that think they can carry on an affair and
not have at least a dozen people know all about it. We got our first
hint from this gardener, Eben; but I expect most of the servants about
here know what’s been going on.”

He went soon after that. I had said nothing about the finding of the
glove, leaving that for Mr. Dean, and I gathered that the police were
still at a loose end, especially as to the gold.

“For most of that money was in gold,” he said. “A hundred and fifty
pounds of it anyhow. Maybe two hundred. That took some carrying and some
hiding, believe me.”

And he assured me, as he went out the door, that the murder of Mrs.
Lancaster had been, in spite of all appearances, no crime either of
insanity or of sudden passion; but one long planned and skillfully
carried out.

“Only thing I can say is that if she was killed because of that money,
it’s as sly and cunning a piece of work as I ever saw. If she wasn’t,
then we’ve got a lunatic loose somewhere and we’ve got to get him.”

When Mother came home from church that day she found me locked in my
room, and as close to hysteria as the Crescent traditions permit to any
young woman. For I no longer doubted that Margaret Lancaster had killed
her mother, either directly or with Bryan Dalton’s help, and with the
connivance of Holmes. And I nearly burst into shrieks at the dinner
table when, Lydia Talbot coming in to talk over Emily Lancaster’s
strange experience of the night before, Mother at once decreed that
Holmes was to sleep in the house again that night.

“Not Holmes, mother!” I said, while Miss Lydia stared at me curiously.

“Why not Holmes?” Mother said irritably. “He can at least make a noise.”

Which is one reason why Holmes was never accused of our second crime,
which was committed that night. For so strenuously did he object that
Mother was finally obliged to order him to obey, and later on after he
was asleep to send me to take the key out of his door and to lock him
in! A confession which later brought a smile even to the faces of the
police.




                                  XXI


It was that night, Sunday, August the twenty-first, that Miss Emily
Lancaster was shot to death on the grapevine walk.

Looking back over that day, I cannot help marveling at how peaceful it
was, in view of all that was to come. Except for the background tragedy
of Thursday, it differed in no particular from any other Sunday
afternoon that I could remember.

As usual, Mother retired after our midday dinner for her rest, a device
used by all the Crescent families to take care of the fried chicken and
ice cream which is our summer Sunday meal, and which becomes roast beef
and a fruit pie at the end of September. And also as usual Lydia Talbot
stayed on after her self-effacing but tenacious fashion. She frequently
came in on Sundays, and always remained until something or other finally
forced her away.

But that afternoon she nearly drove me wild. We sat on the porch, and
she insisted on discussing the crime and her various grievances
connected with it.

“One would think,” she said in her flat monotonous voice, “that we would
have been called in to help. After all, we are the only close relatives
the girls have. But can you believe that neither Hester nor I has been
in the house since it happened? And they can’t lay it to the police now;
the police have gone.”

She was actually moist with indignation. One gray spit curl had
straightened out and hung rakishly over an eye. High priestess of all
our funerals as long as I could remember, I understood her resentment
and did my best to soothe her.

“Of course they’re very upset, Miss Lydia.”

“You’d think that would be when they need their own family. I’m their
full aunt, Louisa; but that makes no difference. When Emily gets into
trouble she runs to us, as she did last night, but that’s all it amounts
to.”

On that night alarm of Emily’s, however, she was rather reticent.

“How do I know what it was?” she said, in response to a question from
me. “Or who ‘they’ are? Maybe she dreamed it, although George thinks
not. But I can tell you this, Louisa; the minute I got her quiet she
stopped talking. She always was a close-mouthed woman anyhow, but she
shut up like a clam.”

She changed the subject then as though she had said too much.

“I hear Helen Wellington has come back.”

“Yes.”

“I suppose she thinks Jim has all that money.”

That was almost too much for me. I suppose I was constrained and rather
silent after it, for soon she got up, straightened the hat which
Crescent-fashion sat high on her head, and picked up her old beaded bag.

“Well, I’ll move on,” she said in her flat voice. “I intend to try just
once more to see Emily and Margaret. Then if they don’t let me in—well,
I suppose I can take a hint as well as anybody!”

I watched from the porch as well as I could, seeing her absurd hat as it
passed up the Lancaster walk and then losing it again. But apparently
she did not have to take the hint, and I was really relieved when the
hat did not reappear.

That was at half past three.

Usually Mother drives out at that time, but Holmes had secured the
afternoon off and Mother was settled upstairs with a book and some
essence of pepsin, and the remainder of the afternoon passed with
intolerable slowness. Around five o’clock I walked idly toward the
Crescent, to see Helen Wellington on the front porch, carefully dressed
in white and yawning over a book. I dare say it was a case of any port
in a storm, for she saw me and asked me to join her. I did not go up,
but I did sit on the steps, to find her eying me curiously.

“Look here, Lou,” she said. “All this isn’t _your_ funeral. You look
terrible.”

“I’ve had a shock, of course,” I told her lamely. “I’m glad you’ve come
back, Helen. Jim needed you.”

She laughed.

“Jim! He needs me about as much as he needs a cinder in his eye.
Besides, I’m rather under the impression that he has had you to console
him! Never mind that, Lou. I’m in a bad temper, that’s all. If you could
see this house! And not an agency open until morning!”

I looked at her.

“I suppose it hasn’t occurred to you to do anything about it yourself,”
I said drily.

“You would think of that! That’s what Bertie Dean says. I’ve just had a
row with him. If he wants to masquerade here as a servant let him do the
dishes! It’s idiotic anyhow. I dare say the Crescent hasn’t been fooled
for a minute.”

“The Crescent,” I told her quietly, “has had other things to think
about, Helen.”

I did not stay long. It developed that Herbert Dean, after she firmly
refused to wash the lunch dishes, had mysteriously disappeared around
noon, and that Jim was pretending to read the newspapers inside
somewhere.

“He’s scared of course,” she said easily. “But also of course he didn’t
do it. He hasn’t the brains, Lou; no matter what you think of his
intellect. And he is no prestidigitator, no matter what the police may
think.”

By which she referred to what has been called the substitution theory as
to the money in the chest.

Since then I have seen a record of Mr. Lancaster’s early statement after
the discovery that the chest had been looted. It runs much as follows:

Q. (by Inspector Briggs). “You are certain that nobody could have moved
that gold in any quantity in a short space of time?”

A. “Practically certain, considering its weight.”

Q. “But you were not afraid that the attempt might be made?”

A. “I haven’t said that. I was not afraid in the daytime. The nights
worried me, however. My wife often took an opiate at night to enable her
to sleep.”

Q. “Then it is your considered opinion that the gold was not taken
yesterday afternoon after her death?”

A. “I do not see how it could have been.”

Q. “Now, Mr. Lancaster, are you ready to state that this gold and so on
actually went into the chest?”

A. “I’m afraid I don’t understand.”

Q. “I mean, are you certain that there was no substitution?”

A. “Substitution. Oh yes, I see what you mean. I think not. Once or
twice I myself tied up the bags and placed them there. There was no
substitution while I was present.”

Q. “In that case, have you any explanation of the fact that this money
has disappeared? Of any possible method?”

A. “None whatever.”

Q. “Will you tell us the exact procedure which was followed when the
gold arrived?”

A. “I was not always present, or even often, but I suppose it did not
vary. Mr. Wellington brought the money in a small black bag. Usually it
was gold, tied up in small canvas sacks with the necks wired and a lead
seal on each one. He would cut the wire, and my wife would then count
the money as it lay on her bed. Mr. Wellington would then enter the
amount in the book and my wife would sign it.”

Q. “And after that?”

A. “It was simply a matter of putting the sacks—or the folder with the
currency—into the chest. He would draw out the chest, my wife would
give him her key, and he would then deposit the money and lock the chest
again.”

Q. “Your wife could see all this?”

A. “I am not certain. She could at first. The box was taken out and
placed on two chairs beside the bed. Later on it was too heavy, and was
merely drawn out and opened.”

Q. “Then it would have been possible for a substitution to be effected
later? That is, a second bag containing these lead weights might have
been placed in the chest, and the bag with the gold have gone back into
the valise? And so on?”

A. “I suppose it might be possible; yes. But I think it highly unlikely.
I have known Mr. Wellington all his life,” etc., etc.

This was the theory to which Helen referred that afternoon, and her
comment on it was characteristic.

“Now can anybody see poor Jim figuring all that out?” she said. “Jim,
who remembers that a party needs gin after all the bootleggers have put
on their dress clothes and gone to the opera! He’s a good sort, and he’s
mine and so I like him—no matter what you may think, Lou; and not all
the time either. But that’s neither here nor there.” And she added in
her casual fashion: “I suppose Emily really did it. I know I would, in
her case. She was a horrible old woman.”

With which I finally went back home, to a light supper and a heavy but
disturbed sleep through which Helen Wellington moved gaily and
irresponsibly; and our own Annie was writing an anonymous letter to the
police—which is the only time in my life when a dream turned out to be
true, as we learned after the case was over.

It was from this dream that I wakened early the next morning to the
discovery of our second murder; that of Emily Lancaster herself.




                                  XXII


The circumstances were peculiar as well as tragic. Miss Emily, having
slept most of the day, had apparently been wakeful that night and at one
o’clock in the morning she had gone out to the kitchen porch. There she
had evidently sat for a time, eating an apple, a portion of which with
the knife for paring it was found on the table there later on. As the
porch is an enclosed and locked one, this is understandable enough,
although rather strange after the events of the night before.

What followed was less so.

For some reason then unknown she had left the porch, gone out onto the
rear path and followed it toward the Talbots’. She was clad much as she
had been the night before, for under her wrapper she still wore her
nightdress, although she had put on her shoes and stockings and a
petticoat.

The path, familiar to her for many years, she had apparently followed
without difficulty; although the night was dark and overcast. There were
no prints on her flat-heeled shoes to show that she had left it at any
time. But only thirty yards from the rear of the Talbot house that
tragic walk of hers had ceased. Someone, perhaps hidden in the
shrubbery, had shot at her and killed her.

That is the brief story of our second murder as it was reconstructed at
the time, and it is not the least dramatic part of it that George Talbot
had not only heard the shot but had gone outside to investigate it; and
that because she had fallen into the shrubbery he must have passed close
by her body without seeing it.

“I heard a shot,” he told the police, “and I got my gun at once. I knew
it was not a car back-firing, for it came from the rear of the property
and there is no road there.

“Well, it’s pretty hard to get out of our house at night in a hurry, so
I used an old kid trick of mine. I got out onto the roof of the summer
kitchen, which is low, and dropped from there. I had no flashlight, but
I took a pretty good look around and I saw nothing and nobody, although
I thought once I heard some movement near our stable.

“I gave it up then, and I had a hard time getting back into the house.
But at last Mother came down to admit me. She had heard no shot, nor had
my Aunt Lydia; but Lizzie, who has been with us for years, had heard it.
She was awake with a toothache. That’s all I know about it. I went back
and went to sleep. It was a quarter to two then. The shot was at half
past one.”

And that for some time was all anybody seemed to know about it.

It was Eben who found her that Monday morning at seven-thirty, on his
way to get the lawn mower from the Talbot garage. He saw what looked
like a black cloth lying among the syringa bushes which bordered the
path, and stooped to pick it up. It would not lift, however, and then he
saw that he had uncovered a woman’s foot. It was after that that he
yelled and the street cleaner, Daniels, who was in No Man’s Land with
some débris from Euclid Street, heard him and came running. He seemed
stricken when he saw the body, and neither he nor Eben had touched it
when the Talbots’ Lizzie came on a run.

When I reached the place practically all the servants from the Crescent
were already there. As in the case of Mrs. Lancaster, they stood more or
less together, a huddled silent group with the women silently and
conventionally weeping. George Talbot had arrived and had taken charge,
sending Lizzie to telephone for the police; and Daniels, curiously
enough, had taken off his cap.

“Gone to her Maker, miss,” he said to me. Then, seeing that I looked
white, he added: “‘It is as natural to die as to be born.’”

How was I to know that he was quoting from Bacon’s “Essay on Death”? He
went away quietly soon afterwards, leaving word that he would be on
Euclid Street when he was wanted. But he was not there. His brush and
his rubbish cart was there, all the simple paraphernalia of his
business, but it was late afternoon before he used them again. Then I
saw him, and he said he had felt sick.

“She’d been very kind to me,” he explained, as though that was the
answer.

Looking back I see him moving through all our troubles, an untidy white
figure who came and went, hardly noticed; a mild-faced man with no
particular characteristics save a slight limp and the thick glasses of a
man who had been operated for cataract. At some time he had suffered a
paralysis of one side of his face, which drooped. But he was cheerful
and a steady worker. Who could have guessed that he was the key to so
much that we could learn only slowly and painfully?

He had drifted away before the siren of the police car sounded at the
gates to the Crescent. By that time, some of them only casually attired,
the Crescent families were appearing. George Talbot tried to wave his
mother back, but she came on, and so did Miss Lydia. Mr. Dalton appeared
in his dressing gown. Mother had arrived, and insisted that the body be
removed at once into the Talbot house, regardless of police regulations.
And almost before the police car had had time to stop I saw Helen
Wellington, in pajamas and carrying a cigarette, walking toward the
group and looking interested and nonchalant.

All of this, of course, is only a picture, photographed on my mind; the
background for Emily Lancaster, lying on her side on the warm summer
earth and looking clumsy and heavy even in death.

She had been shot through the head, a quick and merciful death, at
least. But like the others I dare say, my stunned mind could comprehend
only the murder itself. Or was it murder?

The two policemen, having driven us all back, were searching for a
weapon near the body in case of suicide, and being careful not to step
on the ground beyond the path. There was no weapon in sight, however,
and unless it lay under her they knew that a second crime had been
committed within less than two hundred yards of the first.

That was the situation when Margaret Lancaster came running down the
steps of their kitchen porch; a wild-eyed and half-crazed woman. Ellen
was the first to reach her and to try to get her back into the house,
but she shook her off and came on toward us, dreadfully and
determinedly.

“I want to see her,” she said. “I must see her. Let go of me, Ellen. Let
go, I say.”

She went through us without seeing any of us, and she paid no attention
whatever to the two policemen.

“Please don’t touch her,” one of them said. “Sorry, miss, but that’s a
regulation.”

I doubt if she heard him. Moaning softly she got down on her knees and
looked at her sister. Then something of the inevitability of the
situation must have come to her, for when she rose again she seemed
calmer.

“I’ll go back now,” she said, to no one in particular. “I must tell my
father.”

Mother and Ellen went back with her along the path, but I heard later
that she shut them both out and went in alone.

“She was certainly not herself,” Mother told me later. “Anyone could
smell Ellen’s oatmeal burning on the stove, but she simply slammed the
door, and of course it has a spring lock. She was in no condition to
break the news to anybody. No wonder he collapsed.”

For that was the next news we had. It came while the Homicide Squad was
still at work in the morning sun, and shortly after the body had been
taken away, carefully covered, on a stretcher. Mr. Lancaster had had a
stroke, and Doctor Armstrong’s car drove up just as the police ambulance
was carrying Miss Emily away.

It was the doctor, coming in later to give Mother her hypodermic of
iron, who told us.

“It’s not surprising,” he said. “He’s almost seventy, and he has been in
very poor shape ever since his wife’s death. As a matter of fact, I
believe he had his stroke in the night.”

“In the night!” Mother said. “Then he doesn’t know about Emily?”

“I doubt it. Margaret went in to tell him as best she could, poor woman.
The room was still dark, and she sat down on the edge of the bed and
took his hand. Apparently he opened his eyes, or at least she thinks so.
She told him to be brave, and that she had some bad news for him, but he
did not move. That did not alarm her. He was always pretty
well-controlled. When she finally said what had happened and he was
still quiet she was alarmed, and raised a window shade. Then she saw
there was something wrong. I’ve sent for a nurse. She’s about ready to
collapse herself.”

He himself doubted if the old gentleman would be able to rally. Not only
because of his age, but because he had neither eaten nor slept properly
since the first murder.

“Kept an iron hand on himself, but was boiling inside all the time,” was
the way he put it.

As to Emily’s death he had no theory whatever, except that it was an
accident.

“Where’s there a motive?” he asked. “A quiet peaceable middle-aged
woman, a devoted daughter and a good neighbor. Who would want to do away
with her? Trouble with all of us is that we’re trying to connect it with
Mrs. Lancaster’s murder. Well, I’d say offhand that there’s no
connection. There is no relation between the impulse that wielded that
axe next door and this shooting. There was fury behind the axe.”

“What sort of accident?” Mother demanded, refusing since nothing could
bring Miss Emily back to be done out of a second crime. “If you’re
talking about George Talbot’s idea that someone was shooting at a
cat——!”

“I didn’t say that, although it’s possible. But with the amount of crime
there is today, and especially after what had happened here, almost
anyone would feel justified in shooting at a figure moving along that
path at something after one o’clock in the morning.”

“But why was she moving along that path? Have you any idea? Was she
running for shelter again, as she did before?”

“Hardly. So far as we can make out she’d been sitting on the porch
eating an apple, just before.” And then he turned abruptly to me and
faced me into the sun.

“See here,” he said, “don’t you let all this get too far under your
skin, Lou. You have your own life to live, you know.”

And out of sheer tension and strain I spoke out as I had never spoken
before.

“Have I?” I said. “I wonder, doctor. I haven’t lived any of my own life
yet. I’m like Miss Emily in that.”

“Louisa!” said Mother sharply. “Control yourself.”

“I’m sick and tired of controlling myself. What does it lead to? A
bullet in the dark, and nothing to carry away with one. No life, no
anything. I wanted to marry and I couldn’t, and now——”

Then of course I broke down, and Mother went out of the room and I did
not see her again for hours. But I did not tell even Doctor Armstrong
that the sight of Helen Wellington walking down nonchalantly in her
gaudy pajamas to where poor Emily lay dead by the path had been the
first strain. Not, I think, that I really cared for Jim, but because of
sheer contrast.

I do remember muttering that the path of duty led but to the grave, and
that the doctor immediately sent for Annie and had me put to bed. But he
understood rather more than I thought he did, for before he left he sat
down beside me and took my hand.

“There is only one safe way to carry on in this world, Lou,” he said
gently. “That is to let the past take care of itself and to look ahead.
No use looking back. What’s over is over, so bury it decently. But
always look ahead. That’s the game.”

“To what?”

“Well, we may evolve some ideas about that later,” he said, and soon
after he went away.

That collapse of mine is the reason why I can relate the events of that
day, Monday the twenty-second, only at second hand.




                                 XXIII


Miss Emily had, it developed, been shot from the right side, which if
she had been on her way toward the Talbot house made it appear as though
the bullet had come from No Man’s Land. But as she might have stopped
and turned, particularly if she had heard a sound of some sort, this was
only important in view of the lack of clues elsewhere. Thus the area
between the Talbot and Lancaster houses, largely garden with soft flower
beds, showed no footprints whatever.

The idea that someone had fired from an upper window at a possible
prowler was also not tenable. The post-mortem showed that the bullet had
entered and left the head in an almost horizontal line. The time of her
death was set at between one and two in the morning, due partly to
George Talbot’s story of the shot, and partly to her sister Margaret’s
statement that she had heard someone moving about in the upper hall at
one o’clock.

The story of that night, as it gradually drifted to the rest of the
Crescent, was that on hearing Emily Margaret had called out, and that
Emily had replied that she was going downstairs to get an apple.

As Emily when unable to sleep often went downstairs at night for
something to eat, this had not surprised her. Save for one thing, and
that was the alarm which had driven her out the night before. She had
thought it odd for Emily to be prowling about after that experience, and
her first inclination had been to offer to go with her. She was very
tired, however, and Emily knew her way about. She was not surprised that
she wanted food; she had eaten almost nothing since the Thursday before.
But she was sorry now, tragically sorry; she had simply gone to sleep
again and let her go alone.

The evening, she said, had been quiet. Emily had slept most of the day,
although late in the afternoon she had wakened and had agreed to see
Lydia Talbot, who had been downstairs. Lydia had suggested nailing shut
the two windows opening from Emily’s room onto the porch roof, and she
and Ellen had done it together.

The two women, Emily and Lydia, had talked for some time. Although aunt
and niece, there was no great disparity in their ages, and Emily had
never had Margaret’s dislike of the older woman. But after Miss Lydia’s
departure Emily had been restless. She had got up and prowled around the
house, especially on the second floor. When Margaret found her she said
she was looking for her bird, which Lydia had missed, and Margaret had
had to tell her that the bird was dead.

Emily had taken the news very hard, but had become more quiet as the day
wore on.

She—Margaret—and Mr. Lancaster had spent the evening downstairs. Mr.
Lewis had brought out a copy of her mother’s will, and had gone at nine
o’clock. After that the two of them had sat in the library discussing
it. Like every other value, Mrs. Lancaster’s estate had shrunk greatly
during the depression. She had, however, left some three hundred
thousand dollars, including the money in the chest, and fifty thousand
of this was left without restriction to Jim Wellington.

It was an old will, made when the estate had been valued at more than a
million dollars. Now that legacy to Jim loomed large and formidable, and
Mr. Lancaster had seemed undisturbed.

He had gone up to bed at eleven, although she herself had remained below
until almost midnight. Since her mother’s death her stepfather had
refused to enter her mother’s room, and had in fact locked it off from
his own by the connecting bathroom. When he was ready for bed,
therefore, he called down to her that it looked as though it might rain
that night, and for her to close her mother’s windows. She had unlocked
the door, gone in and closed them.

Emily was still awake and still worrying about her bird, for she opened
her door when she heard Margaret and asked where the cage was. Margaret
told her that George Talbot had taken it to the stable, and Emily had
seemed satisfied.

That was all she knew, and examination of Emily’s room supported this
part of her story. The book Emily had been reading was face down on the
table beside her chair, and her bed jacket lay across the foot of the
bed. What the police could not understand, nor those of us who learned
it by the grapevine, was why Miss Emily should have at least partially
redressed herself later; have put on her shoes and stockings and her
petticoat, in order to do what she had done so many nights before; to go
downstairs for something to eat.

Miss Margaret, distracted as she was by her father’s grave illness,
could give no explanation.

“She never bothered to dress,” was what she said. “She often went in her
nightdress and slippers, or sometimes in a wrapper. No, I can’t
understand it. The bird cage? But why in the world would she want it?
She knew the bird was dead.”

That was the way the case stood until three o’clock that afternoon. Then
the police, still searching for the empty shell, found two things which
only added to our mystery.

One of these was a garden spade, identified by Eben as belonging to the
Daltons and left by him on Saturday leaning against the wall of the
Dalton garage. This spade was discovered in the shrubbery near the body,
but at first seemed to have no significance. It was Eben’s
identification which set them to thinking.

The other was the discovery late that afternoon of the bullet itself,
deeply implanted in a small tree in No Man’s Land. There was no empty
shell to be found, however, and no spot could be found where, if Miss
Emily had indeed carried the spade to where it lay, she had used it for
any purpose whatever.

Inspector Briggs summed it up later.

“Well, there we were again, with the newspapers howling like nobody’s
business and the Commissioner and the District Attorney carrying on like
two lunatics. What had we? She didn’t shoot herself; that’s certain. And
we couldn’t get a search warrant and tear all five houses wide open to
look for a gun. Not the Crescent! There would have been hell to pay.

“All that bullet did until we’d examined it the next day was to show us
approximately where she’d been shot from; the direction. That pointed to
the walk itself, or to the space between those two houses. But we
couldn’t find the shell to prove it.

“What we figured was that she’d been shot from close range. It was a
dark night, remember; no moon. Not exactly point-blank, but close
enough. And that she was out on some business of her own, maybe the
gold. She’d carried that spade. Her prints were all over it.

“That was another thing that threw us off, for it wasn’t far from the
body that we found that key to the chest and its chain. We didn’t
announce that, but it was there all right; looked as though it had been
buried and the rain had uncovered it. But there it was.

“As for the prints of those heels, well—they looked pretty fresh, but
by the time we’d got there women had been swarming all over the place.
They might be important and they might not. Just one of those things!”

For, although we did not know it at the time, the search had finally
revealed between where the body lay and the Talbots’ old stable, two or
three prints of a high French heel. Just such heels as Helen Wellington
and Mrs. Dalton wore as a matter of habit, and as I myself used now and
again in spite of Mother’s protests and as a small assertion of
independence.

The police made molds of them; spraying them with some sort of liquid
shellac first, I believe, and then pouring in some melted paraffin. The
earth was fairly firm and the molds successful, but they offered no
characteristics of any sort to identify them. As the Inspector said with
disgust:

“There were at least four women along the Crescent, including the
housemaid Peggy, who could have made those prints. But there were about
a hundred thousand in the city who could have made them too.”

We knew nothing of this on that Monday, however. All we knew was that
Emily Lancaster had been killed, and that our morale had for the second
time been pretty completely shattered.

We carried on as best we could. Monday is the Crescent’s wash day, and
murder or no murder, at or before nine o’clock its various laundresses
converged on it as usual. By eleven that day the drying yards revealed
as usual to all and sundry the most intimate garments of its owners, and
inside our houses we were calling up the butcher and ordering soap from
the grocer, much as we always had.

Not quite as usual, however, for about the middle of the morning the
Talbots’ laundress, setting the pole for her clothes-line into its
cement foundation in the drying yard, was unable to seat it properly and
made an examination of the hole. The empty shell was lying in it, and
with the aid of a clothes-pin she got it out.

But here is one of the things which I dare say has hanged an innocent
man before this, or sent him to the chair. All our laundresses are
negresses, and of a grade which has an almost superstitious fear of the
police. Amanda therefore put the shell in her pocket and said nothing
about it.

“Ah didn’ want to get mixed up with that kind of trouble,” was her later
explanation.

This, when we learned it, seemed definitely to fix the position of the
killer on that Sunday night as in the Talbot drying yard, a small piece
of ground which borders the path toward the Lancasters’, and which is
protected from the street by an open lattice covered with vines. On the
side toward the garage and the path, however, there is only shrubbery,
and rather low shrubbery at that.

We knew nothing of Amanda’s discovery that day, however. Mother spent
most of it at the Lancasters’, with Mrs. Talbot there also, and reported
on her return that Mr. Lancaster was still unconscious and Margaret
going about in a daze. She had, it seemed, decided to clear her mother’s
bedroom of its personal belongings, and so the three women had unlocked
the room and gone to work. Mother was hot and tired when she came back,
and I noticed that she carried a square package of some sort which
looked like a large book.

She said nothing about it, however, and as it was wrapped in white paper
and tied, I did not ask her about it. In fact I quite forgot about it
until that evening when by ones and twos the neighbors drifted in.

The package was on top of one of the bookshelves, and it was Mrs. Talbot
who noticed it.

“I see she gave it to you.”

“Yes,” Mother said. “She didn’t know what to do with it. I don’t know
that I do, either. I suppose it will go to the third floor.”

“To the third floor” is Crescent usage for any sort of storage.

I cannot remember now that anyone except Mrs. Talbot showed any interest
in the album. There was a time coming when I was to think back and try
to recall that scene, but without result. George wanted to see it, “to
cheer him up,” and was sharply rebuked by his mother. Bryan Dalton eyed
it and then looked away, while his wife watched him. But that was all.

I myself knew it well, its imposing size and the clasps which fastened
it. I could remember it lying on the Lancasters’ parlor table when I was
a small girl, and the awe with which I examined the strange clothes and
stranger attitudes of the people pictured inside. But now as I say it
aroused no interest. We sat in an informal circle, much as we had once
before, but the excitement of Thursday had given place to a strained
anxiety which showed itself in Mrs. Talbot’s lowered voice and strained
mouth, in Lydia’s pallor and the hands which shook over her knitting, in
Mrs. Dalton’s shrill high laughter, and in Bryan Dalton’s increased
taciturnity.

So far as I can recall he spoke only once all evening.

“What it comes to is this,” he said. “We have a murdering killing brute
somewhere around us, and I’ve already asked for extra police
protection.”

“Police!” said Mrs. Talbot. “We’ve been overrun with them, and what good
are they? What we need is more bars and more locks.”

“And more fires out back!” said Mrs. Dalton surprisingly. Everyone
looked at her, but she only laughed rather maliciously and on that the
bell rang and Helen Wellington came in.

She stood in the doorway surveying us with her faintly ironic smile.

“Well,” she said, “I suppose you think that Jim has been busy again!”

That shocked us into action. Bad taste always does. Perhaps she had
meant to do just that, for Mother got up and faced her squarely.

“Really, Helen!” she said. “If you think we have been discussing Jim in
this—in this tragic connection, you are mistaken. We have done nothing
of the sort.”

“Discussing or thinking or just plain wondering, I came in to tell you
what I have told the police. Jim Wellington slept in my room last night,
and he didn’t leave it.” And she added more lightly, seeing how
indelicate most of us considered that statement: “I’ll swear that on a
stack of Bibles if necessary. I’m sure the Crescent could produce a
stack of Bibles!”

“Come in and don’t be silly, Helen,” George Talbot said. “We’ve been
talking about self-defense here; nothing else.”

Her eyes, made up as usual but shrewd behind her mascara, swept the
circle.

“Self-defense?” she said. “With everybody here but poor Jim? That’s
funny!”

Then she turned and went out, and we heard the front door slam behind
her.

She had effectively broken up the gathering. They all left soon after
she had gone, but I noticed that where the Daltons had once walked side
by side, even if it was in silence, he now stalked ahead and let her
follow as best she might. At the end of the path, where it reaches the
street, I saw him turn and look back toward the Lancaster house, where a
light showed from the sick man’s room. After that he squared his
shoulders and marched on, with his wife mincing along on her absurd
heels behind him.

George stopped long enough behind his mother and his aunt to tell me
that Margaret had asked him to stay the night in the house, and that he
had agreed.

“She’s frightened,” he said. “And I don’t blame her. It looks like a
plot to wipe out the whole lot of them.”

“You think it’s the same person, then?”

“It’s stretching things rather fine to premise two killers after one
family, isn’t it?”

Then he left, and I locked up the house while Mother carried the album
upstairs with her, still in its paper wrapping.




                                  XXIV


Holmes slept in the house again that Monday night, and locked in once
more, although he did not know it.

Miss Emily’s death had destroyed any theory I might have had about him,
and I was confused and rather hopeless. Even granting that he could have
escaped by the window, there was no possible way by which he could have
reëntered the house. Unless—and that came to me suddenly as I commenced
to undress—he had dropped out the window, reëntered by one of the long
ladders we all have for tree pruning, and in the morning taken it away
again.

Somewhere I had read that such a method had been used, and discovered by
the marks left in the earth by the ladder. So, because I was not sleepy
and because I could not hear Holmes snoring loudly in his comfortable
guest room bed, I decided to go downstairs and investigate for myself.
There seemed nothing else to do. Since the morning of the day before I
had lost all contact with Herbert Dean.

Mother was tired, and after locking all her windows for her and placing
a vase on each sill, “in case someone tries to enter,” as she said, I
went downstairs and out the front door.

It was another cloudy night, with another storm in the air but with no
wind; which was fortunate, Mother having demanded our only flashlight
and I being armed merely with a box of matches. I had lighted one and
found no marks, and was stooping with my second one when a low voice
suddenly said:

“Don’t be frightened, Miss Lou. It’s Dean. And put out that match.
There’s nothing there. I’ve looked.”

The shock had made me tremble violently, and I imagine he knew it, for
he caught me by the arm and drew me away.

“Steady!” he said. “And where can we talk? The cellar?”

“The garage is all right,” I managed to say.

“Oh! Then Holmes is in the house again tonight?”

“Yes. How did you know he was, last night?”

“Knowing about Holmes is my business. Not for what you think, however.
Your Holmes is a smart young man, as I believe I’ve said before. Some of
these days he and I are going to have a good old-fashioned gam.”

“A gam?”

“A talk, a gossip. Whatever you like to call it. In the meantime, can’t
we have one ourselves? I need to know a lot of things.”

This I agreed to and so I went back into the house, closed and bolted
the front door, and on reaching the kitchen porch found him waiting for
me on the back path. His matter-of-factness was solid and dependable. In
silence he led the way to the garage, put me on a bench, sat down on the
running board of the car and got out his pipe.

“Well!” he said at last, “things are getting interesting! Day by day, in
every way, they’re getting hotter and hotter.”

That surprised me. “You’re hardly human, are you?” I said. “I believe
you actually _like_ this situation!”

“Human enough, but it’s my business,” he said calmly, and smoked
thoughtfully and in silence for some time.

“I understand Helen broke up the meeting tonight,” he went on after the
pause. “Very typical of Helen, if slightly indiscreet. Still she had a
good enough reason, although I’d have kept her back if I’d known, but
you see I’m not there any more. She’s filled up the place with servants,
and I had to get out.”

“What was her reason? She was rather dreadful.”

“She was scared,” he said quietly. “You see, Jim owns a forty-five
automatic. However, the police have the bullet now, and by tonight or
tomorrow the experts will know that his pistol never fired that shot.”

He had little to say as to his own movements during the day, and he
flatly refused to discuss the second glove.

“I’ll tell you all about that some day.”

But he was more concerned about Miss Emily’s murder than he had seemed
at first.

“You see,” he said, “there can be only two or three reasons for killing
her. First, that she was mistaken for someone else—possible, but
unlikely to my mind. Again, she may have had to be put out of the way
for some reason we don’t know; because she knew something or obstructed
some plan. I have an increasing feeling that there is a plan. And still
again, she may have had something in her possession which somebody else
wanted or had to have. I say all this because we have to count out the
usual motives of revenge or jealousy or love. She was hardly a person to
inspire any of them. And of course there’s the possibility of a lunatic.
We can’t eliminate that entirely.”

“But you don’t believe that, do you?”

“No. You see, Lou,—you don’t mind my calling you Lou, do you? it’s
easier—you see there are two types of killers, roughly speaking. One is
a low type, a subnormal mentally, who generally belongs to the
underworld and who kills impulsively, out of fear or rage or liquor. The
other type is the intelligent one. Its crimes are carefully planned and
subtly carried out. But that of course is its great danger. Everything
in such a plot depends on something else; it’s all fitted together like
a machine. Then a cog slips and the whole business goes to pieces.”

“Does that mean that poor Emily Lancaster was such a cog?” I asked.

“It’s possible. Why else kill her? She was inoffensive, to say the
least. If she knew anything she hadn’t told it, at least to the police.
You see, Lou,—I rather like calling you Lou. I hope you do too!—it’s
my belief that somewhere buried in this Crescent is a story. I’m leaving
the rest to the police and going after that story. But I don’t mind
telling you that if and when I get it, it won’t be from the Crescent
itself. Of all the tight-lipped mind-your-own-business people I’ve ever
seen! But let’s forget them. Are you tired? Do you want to go in?”

“Not unless you do?”

“What, me? With a pretty girl and a summer night and a handsome running
board to sit on? Never. Besides, it helps me to talk out loud. You’re a
good listener, you know; any man prefers no voice even to a soft low
voice in a woman at times.”

Then he dropped his bantering air.

“What gets me,” he said, “is why she left the house last night at all.
It doesn’t fit, Lou. Why did Miss Emily get up, put on part of her
clothing, eat an apple on the porch and then go out? She wasn’t scared
off that porch. She’d have rushed into the house and locked the door.
Unless,” he added, “she was afraid of someone in the house. And in that
case, why the apple?”

He was annoyed, I could see. He had had a theory of some sort which had
satisfied him, and then along came something which, as he said, didn’t
fit.

“One night she runs out of the house and hunts sanctuary at the
Talbots’,” he went on, “and the next she sits on the back porch at one
in the morning with that damned apple and then goes and takes a walk!
Lou, we’ve got to find out why she took that walk.”

I thought for a moment.

“Of course,” I said, “she might have gone for the bird cage.”

“The what?”

“Well, Margaret had told her that the bird was dead, and about giving
the cage to George Talbot to put in their stable. And she would know
that he doesn’t lock the stable at night. He’s been hoping for years
that someone would steal his car.”

He put his hands to his ears with a wild gesture.

“I look at you, Lou,” he said, “and you are uttering words in a very
nice voice. But they don’t mean anything. What is this about a bird
cage? Do you mean that Miss Emily Lancaster would go after it at one
o’clock in the morning? Why would she do such a thing?”

“She was terribly fond of the bird. But of course she knew by that time
that it was dead—You see, I really killed it. I put it in a back room
and nobody gave it any water. I—I really can’t bear it, Mr. Dean. If
she was after that cage when she was killed I’ll carry a scar all my
life.”

Upon which, to my intense surprise, I found myself crying. I had been
calm enough comparatively until then, and I think I scared Herbert Dean
as much as I astonished him.

“Stop it, Lou,” he said sharply. “You’ve been a grand girl up to now,
and this is no time to heat up and boil over. Stop it, do you hear? Of
course you didn’t kill the fool bird, or Emily Lancaster either. Here’s
a handkerchief. And this is a nice sentimental time, when you are
softened with grief, to tell you that I’m often called Bert—or even
Bertie! Silly name, but these things are like warts. You don’t know what
brings them on. You only know you’ve got them.”

Which I dare say served its purpose of making me laugh, for it did.

He harked back to the bird cage almost at once, however, and so I told
him the story. He listened until I had finished.

“Curious,” he said at last. “If Margaret told her about it she knew the
bird was dead. Of course that might account for the spade too; that she
meant to bury it. Still, to start out for a thing like that after her
scare of the night before simply doesn’t make sense, unless the whole
business was an excuse, a sort of camouflage. But that would mean——”

He rose rather suddenly and held out both hands to me.

“Up with you, my lady Lou. Poetry, did you notice! You are going into
the house and to bed. I have an idea, although I can’t see you, that you
look ghastly. And young ladies shouldn’t look ghastly, Lou. It isn’t
becoming.”

“I’m afraid I haven’t cared much how I look. Not for years and years.”

He stood silent in the darkness, still holding my hands.

“No,” he said. “I suppose not. Why should you? The whole effect of this
Crescent has been to defeat youth. That’s a rather terrible thing, Lou.
And you submit. The difference between you and Helen lies right there,
you know. You submit. She revolts. She has more courage.”

“Perhaps I want peace more than Helen does,” I said.

“Peace! It is only age that craves peace, Lou my dear. It has lived and
so it is willing to rest. But why should you want peace? Conflict is the
very essence of life. And speaking of conflict—” He released my hands.

“You’re going to bed,” he told me, “and I am going to the Talbot stable
or garage or whatever it is, to look at that bird cage; although if
anyone had told me a week ago that I would start with an axe murder and
end with a bird cage I don’t know that I’d have believed them.”

He gave me a little shove and started toward the house.

“I’ll wait until you’re safely inside,” he said. “And listen to this,
Lou. We may be through or we may not; but I want you to promise that
you’ll not do any more night investigating. There are only two theories
of these crimes: one is that they are inside crimes, done by someone on
the Crescent; the other is an outsider and possibly a lunatic, and he’s
not eliminated even yet. And I don’t know which is the worst. Let me do
the dirty work. Is it a promise?”

“I thought you said I had no courage.”

“Moral courage, child. I haven’t a doubt you would fight your weight in
wildcats, but there’s a difference.”

With that he let me go, and stood watching me until I was safely inside
the house. Then he swung rapidly but silently toward the Talbot garage,
and I turned to the front of the house and an experience which I still
cannot remember without a shiver.

One of the strangest things during all those hectic days was the
comparative immunity with which our killer apparently moved about among
us. Police might be scattered here and there, and usually were; we
ourselves might be on guard, our houses locked and our windows bolted.
But with uncanny skill both were circumvented.

Thus, although I cannot say that our kitchen door was in full view from
the garage that night, it was at least dangerously close to where
Herbert Dean and I sat talking. Yet in that interval of a half hour or
less what followed seemed to prove later that someone had crept up the
steps of the back porch and slipped inside.

I had no idea of this, of course. I remember feeling happier than I had
felt for a long time, in spite of our tragedies; feeling younger too,
and determined to go upstairs and get the beauty sleep Herbert Dean had
suggested that I needed. I think I was even humming a little under my
breath as I went forward through the dark hall, although I stopped that
at the foot of the stairs for fear of Mother.

I went up the stairs quietly for the same reason. There was a low light
in the upper hall, but it only served to throw the shadows into relief,
and it was while I stood at the top of the stairs that I thought I saw
Holmes moving back in the guest room passage.

That puzzled me. He was locked in, or should have been, and after a
moment’s hesitation I went down to the landing again and back along the
hall. There I tried his door, but it was securely locked; and either he
was asleep or he was giving an excellent imitation of it, from the
sounds beyond.

I decided then that I had been mistaken, so I wandered to the end window
of the guest room and glanced out at the Dalton house. Our hall was
dark, but there was a light in Mrs. Dalton’s bedroom, and the shades
were up so that I could see into the room.

She was there, and so far as I could make out she was walking the floor
and crying. She was in her nightdress, and without her high heels she
looked small and pathetic. Old, too; I had never thought of her before
as an old woman. It came to me then that there was real tragedy in the
picture framed by those windows, the tragedy of loneliness and some
mysterious grief which was the more terrible because it was so silent
and repressed.

But it seemed almost indecent to spy on her, and I was about to turn and
leave when I heard something behind me. It was not a step; it was a
stealthy movement, almost inaudible. And with that something or somebody
caught me by the shoulder; I screamed, and that is all I remember.

When I came to Holmes was beating on his locked door and shouting
murder, and I was absolutely alone in the dark and flat on the floor.
Deadly sick at my stomach, too, and with a queer numb feeling in my
head. Then I heard sibilant whispering, and I knew that Mary and Annie
were on their staircase and afraid to come down.

“Mary!” I called. “Please come. It’s all right.”

My voice was feeble, but they heard it and slowly emerged. I must have
looked a strange object lying there in the dark, and the noise Holmes
was making did not lessen the excitement. With the lights on they gained
some courage, however, and Annie roused Mother and told her I was half
killed—which seemed to me to be the truth at that time.

The three of them got me to bed finally, and at last someone released an
outraged and indignant Holmes and called the doctor.

I had a huge lump on the top of my head, and a nausea from concussion
which bothered me more than the bump. But all the time I was being
petted and patted, as the doctor put his examination of my skull, the
police were carefully searching the house. And they found exactly
nothing, except that the kitchen door was unlocked.

The weapon was neither an axe nor a pistol, but a poker from the kitchen
stove, and it bore no prints whatever.

I believe they suspected Holmes that night. Certainly they examined his
room and himself for the key to his door. But as Annie observed, he
would have had to jump like a grass-hopper to get down and unlock the
kitchen door and then get back again and lock himself in, between my
scream and the time she and Mary had reached the bottom of the stairs.

So far as they worked it out, I had trapped someone in the back hall.
There is a space there where the hall widens, and whoever it was hid in
the angle of the wall there. Almost certainly I had passed close by the
intruder in the dark, and there must have been a momentary hesitation;
an indecision whether to chance an escape while my back was turned, or
to put me beyond raising an alarm.

“But you raised the alarm all right,” the Inspector said that night with
a chuckle. “Understand down on the Avenue they thought it was a fire
engine!”

I can still see him, standing beside my bed and pinching his lip as he
surveyed me. He was holding a bit of the green stem of some plant or
other, in his free hand.

“Well, I’m glad it’s no worse,” he told me. “It’s a good thing you’ve
got all that hair. A poker’s kind of a mean thing away from a fireplace.
And so you’re pretty sure you didn’t drag this in?”

“Not if you found it in that corner of the back hall.”

“That’s where it was, and close to the wall. Well, I suppose I’ve got to
go back to the Commissioner and tell him I’m running an agricultural
show. Three blades of grass and a piece of stem! That’s a hell of a
layout to put before anything but a jackass.”




                                  XXV


I believe that Mother and Annie took turns that night in sitting up with
me, but I was in the pleasant lethargy of a small dose of morphia, where
the mind suddenly develops enormous dynamic activity, and everything
extraneous is so remote as to be non-existent.

Pictures succeeded one another with dazzling sharpness and activity. I
was helping Margaret Lancaster take Emily into the house, and Margaret
was stooping and picking up something from the floor, almost under
Lynch’s eyes. I was in the upper hall, with a thin line seeping out
under the door, and Peggy pointing to it and yelling “blood!” I was
meeting Lydia Talbot on the street, and she was saying in a dazed
fashion that she supposed “they had stood it as long as they could.” I
saw Mrs. Dalton going through her house again, and the two of them in
the woodshed. I saw the lid of the chest raised and the detective,
Sullivan, prodding a sack with his fingertips. I watched Holmes
carefully cutting pages out of a book, and after burning them stirring
the ashes with his foot. And once again Miss Emily was lying in the
bushes, and the street cleaner was saying: “It is as natural to die as
to be born.”

That phase passed rather quickly, but it was followed by one less
dramatic but no less sublimated. Hidden motives seemed entirely clear to
me while it lasted, the very secret springs of the Crescent’s hidden
life, love, hate, jealousy and fear. Fear? They were all afraid. I
thought of that gathering downstairs earlier in the night. They were
terrified. But they were more than afraid. Some common bond of secret
knowledge held them together, as it had brought them together. They had
sat with their carefully tended hands idle and with their eyes wary and
their mouths tight; and although they had gathered voluntarily, there
was no real friendliness among them.

That was my last thought when I finally fell asleep.

I wakened late to a stiff neck and an aching head, to find that Mother
was taking a needed sleep and that Annie was beside the bed.

“That butler who was working at the Wellingtons’—he’s downstairs, miss,
and he’s got a message for you from Mr. Jim.”

“I can’t see him like this, Annie.”

“He says it’s important, miss.”

I caught her eye, and I was fairly confident that whatever Herbert Dean
might do in the way of helping with our troubles, he had never fooled
our servants for a minute.

“All right, Annie,” I said. “Give me something to put around me and
another pillow. And—please don’t waken Mother.”

“Not me, miss,” she said, and I caught her eye again. Incurable romantic
that she was, she was almost palpitating with excitement.

That is how I learned of Herbert Dean’s experience of the night before
with the bird cage; and while less sinister than my own adventure, it
had certain points of interest, to say the least.

After he had left me he had moved quietly along the grapevine path
toward the Talbot stable. In the dark pull-over sweater and dark
trousers that he wore he was almost invisible, and his rubber-soled
shoes made no sound whatever. He had gone perhaps half the way to the
Lancasters’ when he thought he heard a door cautiously closing behind
him, and he stopped and listened.

He heard nothing more, however, and so he went on. It was after twelve
by that time, and the houses were dark save for the lights in Mr.
Lancaster’s room, and a low one in Margaret’s across the hall.

He was almost stunned then when, about fifty feet from the woodshed, he
fairly collided with a man standing there.

“He leaped me,” he said. “I was off guard, of course, and the two of us
went down in a heap. I knew in a minute that he had a gun, but he
couldn’t use it; and I don’t know exactly what would have happened if a
policeman hadn’t heard us and come on the run. Each of us had a death
hold on the other, and then the officer pulled a flash and it was George
Talbot.”

“George Talbot!” I said faintly.

“George himself and no other. He’d been taking a regular round of the
house and grounds, as he’d promised Margaret Lancaster. Luckily I’d had
occasion to see him yesterday downtown, and he identified me to the
guard so he wouldn’t arrest me. Then we got up and I went on about my
business. Or tried to.”

All that had taken time, of course. The officer had never heard of
Herbert Dean and was still suspicious, and George had lost a cuff-link
in the scuffle which had to be found. In the end, however, they went
their several ways, after perhaps ten minutes of delay, George back to
the Lancasters’, the officer apparently to the street, and he himself
toward the Talbots’ again.

The house itself was quiet and dark. He had an impression, however, of a
light coming out of the stable; not a flashlight, but apparently
matches. The light came, went out, then flared again.

“Either matches,” he said, “or somebody shading a flash every minute or
two.”

The last two hundred feet he took on a run. Then he slowed down and slid
around a corner to a window. There was no light inside the stable by
that time, but there was someone there, moving or trying to move
something heavy.

“At least that’s the way it sounded,” he said.

He waited a moment, hoping that whoever it was would light a match or
use a flash; but nothing of the sort happened, and so he began to work
his way toward the door again.

He had not gone half the way before a hand caught him by the shoulder,
and the same officer who had found him fighting with George had a death
grip on his collar and was shoving a revolver into his back.

“Now,” he said, “come along and no trouble.”

“Get the hell out of here,” Dean yelled, and made a break for the front
of the garage. But he was too late. The officer caught him again at the
corner of the building and neatly tripped and threw him, and there was a
rush out of the garage door and then a complete silence.

“Get up, you murdering devil!” yelled the policeman, standing over him.
And then he blew his whistle and all at once policemen of all sorts
began to converge on the stable and the two of them there.

“There were six of them there in three minutes,” he said rather wryly,
“and when I gave them my name they didn’t believe me. Well——!”

They took him into the Lancaster house finally, but they would not let
him telephone. That was before Inspector Briggs had been called to our
house, and he was still on duty when the call reached him.

“You have, eh? Where did you find him?”

“Outside the Talbot stable, sir.”

“What was he doing there? What does he say?”

“He says he was after a bird cage, Inspector.”

“A what?”

“A bird cage.”

“Listen,” roared the Inspector, “if you have a bird out there who thinks
he’s a canary, I want to see him. That’s all.”

So they held him for the Inspector to see; putting him into a chair in
that library of Mr. Lancaster’s while four of them stood around the
room. They had locked out George Talbot and the nurse from upstairs, who
had come running down; and although they had taken his automatic they
jumped at him when he reached for his pipe.

And that was the situation when a police car screeched to a stop, and
two men ran for our house while the Inspector panted into the
Lancasters’ and banged at the library door. When they opened it he stood
staring.

“Where is he?”

“This is the man, sir.”

And then the Inspector blew up.

“Why, you blankety-blank sons of jackasses,” he shouted. “That’s Dean. I
told you he was on this case. Is this a joke, or what the hell do you
think you’re doing?”

When, leaving an Inspector exhausted from sheer flow of vocabulary, the
four of them accompanied Herbert Dean back to the stable they found the
stable closed and the bird cage gone. Some time later we were to learn
that it had been found lying in their back yard by a family on Euclid
Street, and by them carefully washed and refurnished with a new canary.
But when that discovery was made known it no longer mattered.

He told me a considerable amount that morning, while Mother slept and I
ate the light breakfast I was permitted; although I know now that he
told me only what he wanted me to know.

Thus, in spite of the Crescent’s critical attitude toward them, the
police were busy with the infinitely patient detail which only they
could cover. They were handicapped, of course. By the very prominence
and isolation of the Crescent, there was no chance to introduce the
usual operatives to watch us. No window cleaners could be brought in;
the Crescent washes its own windows and polishes them until they shine.
No detectives driving taxicabs could sit at our curbstones, eying all
who came and went. No house painters or roofers could work on adjacent
buildings while watching us, and no agents or canvassers could pass our
tightly locked front doors.

True, at noon on Monday an individual in the outfit of a city park
employee had, for the first time in history, appeared with the proper
tools in No Man’s Land, and for the next three days raked, cut and
burned while keeping a sharp watch on our comings and goings. And after
Monday Daniels, our street cleaner, was superseded by a gimlet-eyed
gentleman with a walrus mustache which Helen Wellington later claimed to
have seen him drop and pick up hastily one day. But otherwise our
policemen were frankly policemen. They came and went, or stood guard at
night, uncamouflaged and known to most of us.

Their inquiries, however, had brought only negative results. Sunday had
been a lost day, but in the three days since Mrs. Lancaster’s murder
they had located neither the source of the lead weights in the chest nor
the hiding place of the gold. It looked as though the weights had been
bought a box at a time, the usual box containing only two pounds and
thus the process necessarily continued over a long time.

Inquiry among reputable locksmiths all over the city had discovered no
one of them who had made a duplicate of the key to the chest, and
although some of the banks were able to give the names of people who
were hoarding gold in safe deposit boxes, in every case apparently their
identity was known, and in most cases they were regular customers of the
bank.

But Herbert did not tell me of the intensive examination of Mrs.
Lancaster’s bedroom, made the night before by the Inspector and himself
after the bird cage incident. Or of the hour just at dawn when he
himself had sat down by one of Daniels’ old fires in No Man’s Land and
had patiently, inch by inch, gone over the ashes.

It was two weeks before he told me all this, and then only as a part of
the summary of the case.

“The Inspector needed help by that time,” he said, grinning
reminiscently. “He knew me, of course; but this was a big case and he
wanted it himself. Not only that. He was so sure of Jim at first that he
couldn’t see anything else, and I was Jim’s man. That galled him, and he
held out on me.

“Then things began to thicken up, and after Emily Lancaster was shot he
sent for me to talk it over. I’d moved away from the Crescent, and he
seemed to think I was going off the case. We didn’t lay all our cards on
the table. He held out about the Daltons, and I kept still about the two
gloves, but outside of that we were like brothers!

“Then you get hit on the head, and that happens while he’s got two men
in sneakers watching the Dalton house and ready to swear that Bryan
Dalton went to bed at eleven o’clock, and that not even the cat left
that house after that. In the meantime he comes on a run to find the
lunatic he’s had in the back of his mind all along, and—well, I’m it!
It was after that that he offered me a free hand, and I took it.”

The first result of this armistice, which took place that same night in
the Talbot stable as a sort of neutral ground, was that Herbert Dean
requested a chance to examine Mrs. Lancaster’s bedroom; and that that be
given him without the knowledge of the family.

“What’s the use?” said the Inspector. “You don’t know these people. That
place has been scrubbed and polished until it’s as pure as—as pure
as——”

“The water which falls from some Alpine height?” Herbert suggested.

The Inspector glanced at him suspiciously.

“It’s clean, I’m telling you. Floors scrubbed, pictures wiped, fresh
curtains. I’m telling you. You’ll not find anything there.”

“I know all that. I’ve seen it once, but I hadn’t much time.”

“Oh! You’ve seen it? When?”

“On Sunday morning,” said Herbert pleasantly. “It looked extremely clean
then, but you never can tell.”

The Inspector was rather silent after that. They got to the Lancaster
house and saw George Talbot asleep on the library couch, with his
automatic on the floor beside him. They wakened him finally by rapping
on the window, for Herbert Dean was firm about not ringing the bell.
Once inside the house, however, the problem was not solved.

“What about the nurse?” George said. “She’s settled in the hall up
there. She’s probably asleep, but she may not stay asleep. What’s the
idea anyhow?”

“Why not ask her down? Tell her you’re lonely?” Herbert asked.

“I’ve tried that. She’s not having any,” said George gloomily.

“Well, make some coffee. She probably has one vice.”

In the end that is what they did; and at something after two o’clock
that morning Herbert and the Inspector got into Mrs. Lancaster’s room;
while George, who had relieved the nurse in the hall, stood guard at the
head of the stairs.




                                  XXVI


It must have been an odd performance, all in all. For I believe Herbert
took at first only a casual glance at the room, and then immediately got
down on his stomach and wriggled under the bed. The chest had not been
replaced, and with his searchlight he examined every inch of the
under-side of the bed, including the box mattress.

All this was in silence, with the Inspector watching him and
half-amused.

As I have said before, Mrs. Lancaster’s bed stood with its head toward
her husband’s room behind it, and she had been found lying on the side
toward the door into the hall. This was her customary place in it.
Beyond the closet door stood a small chest of drawers, and it was to
this corner, between the bed and the door to the hall, that Herbert Dean
practically confined his activities that night.

From the bed he moved to the bed table beside it and followed much the
same procedure there. The chest of drawers he examined, not only from
beneath, but by pulling out each drawer and minutely inspecting its
edges. And at last he took down a picture or two from the wall.

“Has it ever struck you,” he asked the Inspector, “that she may not have
been in the bed when she was killed?”

“How the devil could she get out of it?”

“I’m leaving that to you. I’d say at a guess that she was standing in
front of this chest when the first blow was struck, and that the others
followed after she fell to the floor. It’s hard to explain blood on the
under-side of the box springs in any other way, Inspector, and it’s
there. It’s under the bottom of this chest too, and under the edge of
the top drawer.”

“The woman couldn’t walk. Hadn’t walked for years.”

“I wouldn’t be too sure of that.”

“Listen, Dean,” said the Inspector. “I’m not saying you don’t know your
stuff. You do. But I’ll put this to you. She was back in bed all right
when she was found. Remember, I’m taking your word now for this idea of
yours. I’ll go so far as to say that she didn’t weigh a whole lot, and
she could have been lifted back easily enough. But I’m saying this too;
that wasn’t done without leaving any marks. I’ll go so far as to say
that whoever did it would have been smeared with blood from head to
foot. It isn’t pleasant but it’s a fact.”

Herbert agreed grimly.

“I’ve never doubted that, myself. Of course blood washes off.”

The Inspector eyed him.

“What do you mean by that? We examined every inch of this house, and if
anyone left it in that condition he wouldn’t have got a hundred yards.
Unless—look here, Dean.” He lowered his voice. “I suppose somebody in
this house could have stripped mother-naked and done it? This
Margaret—by the Lord Harry, Dean! She was taking a shower when the
other one called her!”

“Getting ready to take a shower. That’s not quite the same thing.”

“We’ve only her word for that, and I haven’t been any too sure of her
right along.”

And then and there, and with considerable excitement, he told Herbert
Dean of the Daltons’ strange excursion to the woodshed that Thursday
night, and of the anonymous letter.

“There’s your motive,” he finished triumphantly. “She and Dalton were
about to hop it, and of course they needed money. Probably Emily knew or
suspected, and so she had to be put out of the way. It even explains the
axe. She could get it in any night and nobody be the wiser.”

“Precisely,” said Herbert. “That’s one of the reasons why I know she
didn’t do it. You see, the axe wasn’t brought in that way, Inspector. It
was tied to a cord and brought in through an upper window. I’ll not
explain that now, but you can take it as a fact.”

“The hell you say!”

“And before anyone does any more cleaning around here,” Herbert added
smoothly, “I’d see if there’s a print on that bell over the bed, and
compare it with the ones on top of the chest. I think you’ll find them
the same.”

“And I suppose you know that, too!”

“I can only guess. I think you’ll find that both are Mrs. Lancaster’s.”

It was then that George Talbot tapped warningly at the door, and the two
men slipped down the back staircase as the nurse came up by the main
one.

The Inspector was upset and uncomfortable. The two men had some coffee
in the kitchen, but he was taciturn and annoyed. He asked only one
question, and he brought that out of a brooding silence.

“Then where is the bird cage in all this?” he inquired. “And what’s the
big idea as to Louisa Hall next door? Why try to bump her off? What’s
more, how? I’ve got two operatives on the Dalton house next door; good
men too, and they don’t see or hear a thing until she screams. It isn’t
natural, Dean.”

“It’s not so hard, Inspector. Take someone who knows every foot of these
grounds and every house, as all these people do, and it’s not as
difficult as it sounds.”

“But the Hall house was locked too. The mother states that positively.
She went over it herself.”

“Not all night. The kitchen door was open for an hour or so, earlier in
the night.”

The Inspector actually dropped his cup.

“How do you know a thing like that?”

“I watched Lou Hall open it.” And although he explained, the Inspector
continued to eye him grimly.

“Damn it all, Dean,” he said at last, “I believe in my soul that you’re
the criminal yourself!”

It was four in the morning when he finally departed in the police car
which, with its uniformed driver, had been waiting patiently all that
time. And at a quarter to five any interested observer could have seen a
tall man in dark trousers, sneakers and a pull-over sweater, sitting in
the August dawn beside a pile of ashes out in No Man’s Land, and
carefully combing them over with his fingers.

By six o’clock he had finished. No one was about except the operative at
the rear of the Dalton house, who was watching him with fascinated
interest. The tall man got up, stuck an old envelope into his trousers
pocket, and carrying something warily in his hand, padded on noiseless
feet to the Wellington house.

There I believe he roused a sleepy butler and was admitted. His coat and
hat were there in the hall, but he did not take them. Instead he went to
the lavatory off the lower hall.

“Got plenty of hot water?” he asked.

“I think so, sir. There’s an automatic heater.”

“Good. Then I’ll need a sieve, if you have one, and—What’s your name?”

“John, sir.”

“I’ll need two flat pieces of glass, John. Window glass. Know of any
about?”

And it speaks well either for John’s training or for certain private
instructions that he never turned a hair.

“I’m new to the house, sir. But I dare say one could break a basement
window.”

“One could, and one might as well hurry and do it.”

He went away, with only the faintest flicker of a glance at what lay in
Herbert Dean’s palm, and in five minutes he was back with a wire sieve
and two flat pieces of glass.

“Afraid they’re rather irregular,” he apologized.

“Well, breaking a window is irregular too, John. And I’m not doing this
for looks.”

The thing he was doing, it appeared, was to place very carefully in the
sieve a small charred piece of heavy paper, badly curled and black.
After that he turned on the hot water and held the sieve in the steam;
held it until the butler offered to relieve him. But he shook his head.

“Hold one of those pieces of glass,” he said. “I’ll be ready to dump it
soon.”

And John held it, much as he would hold a card tray at the front door.
It is, I think, like the bird cage incident, one of the few light notes
in all that grisly business of ours, that picture of the two men in that
lavatory, the one dirty and unkempt, the other in an old dressing gown,
and both enveloped in a cloud of steam while one of them held a sieve
and the other the glass from a broken window.

“What do you think it is, John?”

“Perhaps they’ll be able to say at the laboratory, sir.”

Herbert Dean glanced up quickly, but the man’s face was as impassive as
ever.

“Headquarters?” he asked quietly.

“Yes. The Inspector got me the job, Mr. Dean. I’d be glad if you kept it
to yourself. I do a good bit of inside work of this sort.”

“All right. Now I’m ready.”

And that was how Herbert Dean after a bath, shave and breakfast, turned
up rather early in the morning at a downtown laboratory with a piece of
heavy charred paper, still bearing along one edge a bit of dingy gilt
and securely fastened between two plates of ragged window glass; and
also with an envelope containing eight discolored buttons, each with a
miniature automobile stamped on it, and a bit of flower or plant stem,
an inch or so long.

He was indeed probably leaning over a microscope in that same laboratory
when, at a quarter to nine that Tuesday morning, George Talbot was taken
to police headquarters for interrogation as to the murder of Emily
Lancaster.




                                 XXVII


So quietly had this been done that even Herbert Dean had not known it
when he had made that visit to me between ten and eleven o’clock of that
day.

It was Jim Wellington who came bursting in to tell me at noon,
fortunately finding Mother at the Lancasters’ again and myself up and in
a chair. But he wasted no time on polite inquiries.

“Look here,” he said. “Where’s Dean? We’ve got to locate him.”

“Why? Is there anything new?”

“New? They’ve arrested George Talbot for killing Emily Lancaster. That’s
new, isn’t it? And the devil is that they’ve got it on him. The bullet
that killed Emily fits his gun. And when I say fits it, I mean fits it;
scratches and all.”

He was almost inarticulate with fear for George and anger as to the
whole situation, but at last I got the story pretty much as I know it
now.

Early that morning there had appeared at Headquarters a rather
frightened negro woman, the Talbots’ Amanda, accompanied by a pompous
black man who was her husband; and prompted by him Amanda had told when
and where she had found the empty shell in the Talbots’ drying yard.

The Inspector after his long night was still at home and in bed, but Mr.
Sullivan was there and heard the story. He let the negroes go but kept
the shell, and he apparently sat back and thought about it for some
time. Before him on his desk was the report of that scuffle on the
grapevine path between Herbert Dean and George the night before, and
also of the incident of the stable later on. It seemed to him, and he
has repeated this since, that things in general, including Emily
Lancaster’s murder, had rather shifted toward the Talbot end of the
Crescent, so at last he got a car and drove out there.

George had a forty-five; he knew that. Not only that. George had
acknowledged being outside the night of the shooting, and having had to
be admitted to the house later on. The more he thought it over the less
Sullivan liked it, or the better; I suppose it depends on the point of
view. But he had no intention of arresting George Talbot at that time.

He had taken a uniformed man with him and they found George, grumpy
after an almost sleepless night, in the stable and ready to get out his
ancient car. Rather apologetically they asked if they might see his gun.

“What for?” he demanded. “Am I under suspicion now? You seem to have
tried everyone else.”

“Not at all, but you understand that there is a routine to all this.
We’re checking all the guns in the vicinity.”

That seemed to satisfy him, for he produced it at once from the pocket
of the car. He was not particularly gracious about it, however.

“It’s such damned nonsense,” he complained. “I sit up all night and lose
my sleep to protect the Lancaster house with that gun, and now I’m a
suspect myself. I’ve got a permit, by the way. Do you want that?”

He seemed astounded when they did, but he produced it and they checked
the number on it, which was correct. Certainly it was his own gun.

“I’ve cleaned it recently,” he said. “Yesterday evening, as a matter of
fact. I knew I was taking it with me last night.”

“And when did you fire it last?” Sullivan asked him. But he could not
remember. In the spring, he thought, or early summer, at a picnic. They
had been shooting at empty bottles.

He was rather affronted than alarmed apparently when they took it away
with them. After all, he had been up most of the night and was generally
disgruntled anyhow. But in less than an hour he was at Police
Headquarters. Examination had showed that bullets fired from his gun
corresponded exactly under the microscope with the one which had killed
Miss Emily.

Confronted with this fact, even shown the pictures, greatly enlarged, he
either maintained a stubborn silence or reiterated his earlier story. He
had slept with the gun under his pillow ever since Mrs. Lancaster was
killed. He had put on the safety catch and crawled out the window with
it in his hand. He had not fired it at all; had had no reason to fire
it.

What was more, no one else had fired it. It had never left his
possession. Since the Thursday before he had slept on it at night and
carried it with him by day.

On the night before, knowing he was to spend the night as he had, he had
taken it entirely apart, had taken out the barrel and the spring, had
oiled and rubbed it and then reloaded it.

“Why would I keep it, if I’d killed poor old Emily?” he demanded. “Don’t
you suppose I know that every gun puts its mark on a bullet? I’m not a
fool.”

“Then you ought to know that these marks are identical.”

They showed him the enlargements of photographs, but he only shook his
head.

“That’s your business,” he said. “Mine’s to get out of here with a whole
skin. But don’t fool yourselves that anybody else has had that gun of
mine. If you think that you don’t know our house. We’re not only locked
up against the world. We’re locked up against each other!”

That was the best they could do. They held him all day and well into the
night, and then they had to let him go home. They let him go because
there were some things they could not understand about the automatic;
especially about that empty shell of Amanda’s. I am no expert in
ballistics, but I believe it had to do with a firing pin. There was some
microscopic deviation there, but small as it was it released George.

He was not free, of course. Thereafter, and until our third mystery was
solved, I was more than once to meet George walking briskly along with a
detective following at a discreet distance; and to have George say:

“Just taking him around the block before I turn in. I’ve offered to put
him on a leash, but he doesn’t fancy the idea.”

It must have been about that time in our reign of terror that the
Commissioner of Police sent for Inspector Briggs and asked him
ironically if he would like to take over the public library on Liberty
Avenue as headquarters for the men on the case.

It was after luncheon on that same Tuesday that Mrs. Talbot and Lydia
heard the news of George’s arrest, and they reacted in characteristic
fashion. Mrs. Talbot at once called a taxi and fairly took Police
Headquarters by assault.

“Where is my son?” she boomed. “Get out of my way, young man. My son is
being illegally detained, and I’ll get him out of here if I have to
engage every lawyer in this town.”

Lydia, indignant and frightened as well as agonized at being left
behind, came in to see me.

“Of course he didn’t do it,” she said, sitting as usual bolt upright on
the edge of her chair. “Why should he? Anyhow I heard him getting out
onto that shed roof, and there was no shot fired after that.”

“You should tell them that, Miss Lydia,” I said.

“I’ll tell them when they ask me.”

If she was alarmed for George, she was also highly curious about my own
adventure. I had to sit and wait while she went back to look over the
scene of it, and I can still see her after she came back, prim and
late-Victorian on the edge of her chair, opening that bead bag of hers
and taking out the clippings from the morning papers and giving them to
me to read.

“I have kept them all,” she said. “I’m pasting them into a book, but I
haven’t told Hester. It’s surprising, Louisa, how many there are.”

Strange, that casual little speech of hers, when I am writing this story
largely from that very book, so neat and yet so lurid.

She did not stay long. She wandered into Mother’s room to see if a
camera man who had been hidden in the bushes all morning was still
there, and on discovering that he had gone she went away.

“I sent Lizzie out to drive him off,” she said, preparing to go. “But he
only offered her ten dollars if she could get you to the front porch
with a bandage on your head. Or he said a towel would do!”

I rather affronted her by laughing at this, and finally she went away. I
remember watching her go out the door, and smiling at the butterfly
hatpin in her hat. It was set on a bit of coiled wire so that the insect
itself took on a curious activity as she walked, jerking and glittering
uncannily. There was certainly nothing that morning to tell me that the
time was near at hand when I was to see that same butterfly trampled
into the ground; or that Lydia Talbot herself was soon to be added to
our list of tragic mysteries.

I was much stronger that afternoon, and after she left Annie helped me
into a dressing gown and put me into a chair. Mother, who had escaped
the moment she saw Lydia, was still at the Lancaster house; for Margaret
had had to go to the inquest over poor Emily, and somebody had to stay
in the house.

It was still, incredible as it seems to me now, only Tuesday. The smell
of hot irons on wet linen penetrated to my room, and now and then far
off I could hear the thud of one as our own black Lily thumped it on the
stove. All along the Crescent, though death and trouble seemed
everywhere, that same process was going on. Dark hands were taking
dampened rolls of this or that from our baskets, spreading them on
tables and boards and ironing them. On clothes horses the finished
products were hung to dry, and then folded down into their various
hampers. Ruffles were fluted with fluting irons, and old damask
carefully polished until it shone.

Yet the situation that Tuesday afternoon was strange enough, what with
suspicion suddenly shifting from Jim to George Talbot; with reporters
ringing our doorbell; with Mr. Lancaster slowly sinking in the white
house across from my windows; with poor Emily still lying on a slab in
the morgue, and nothing so far discovered as to the hiding place of the
stolen gold.

Of actual physical clues, in the sense of something material, there were
still only a half dozen. The police, so far as I can recall now, had
only the series of photographs taken after each of the crimes; a number
of fingerprints on cards, each card carefully marked; an automatic
pistol, an empty shell and a bullet; the chest under the bed, and George
Talbot! Somewhere put away they probably had those stained clothes of
Jim Wellington’s, but I do not know. Also I dare say they still had
those ridiculous and now withered blades of grass from the porch roof,
but the sliver of wood from the screen I know had been mounted on a card
and carefully kept.

I know that because after the whole thing was over the Inspector
presented it to me!

They did not have the bit of stem which had been found in our hall,
however. That the Commissioner of Police had gravely handed to Herbert
Dean.

“Briggs here seems to think I need a salad!” he said. “He’ll be bringing
me a rose geranium leaf next and asking me to smell it! Maybe you can
find out what that stuff is, Dean. Not that I think it matters,
but—well, take it along if you like.”

However, the police added another clue that Tuesday, and then sat around
a desk at Headquarters and wondered just where it left them. That was
the magnified photograph of a fingerprint from the bell which hung over
Mrs. Lancaster’s bed, presumably hers, and beside it another one, of the
thumb-print from the chest which had contained the money. There was no
question but that they were the prints of the same thumb, and I believe
the District Attorney sent for the Inspector on the strength of this
discovery and told him he was the only man on the job worth a hill of
beans.

“Good work, Briggs,” he said. “Now I suppose we have to guess whether
the money was taken out of the chest by the old lady and hidden
somewhere; or whether she found out it had been taken and was killed
before she could make a fuss. No chance it’s still in the house, I
suppose?”

“Not a chance, unless someone there is smarter than I think.”

Nevertheless, I believe they made another intensive search of the house
that day, rapping walls and even examining the chimneys and the roof.
But they found nothing whatever.

“And of course, Miss Lou,” the Inspector told me later, “it was still
only a presumption that those prints were the old lady’s anyhow. The
whole thing was guesswork, and how could we prove it? We didn’t like to
ask for an exhumation order; the family would never have given it. And
under the circumstances we hadn’t printed her before she was buried.”

Herbert Dean had one or two bits of evidence which he had not given to
the police, however. Among these were the gloves, a short piece of hemp
cord, and the buttons and charred paper from the fire in No Man’s Land.
Also he now had the stem of the unidentified plant, over which that same
day the botanical department of our local university was working. But he
also had, carefully stowed away, the end of a rather expensive cigar,
flattened as though it had been trampled into the ground.

These—“and an idea”—he says, were his total equipment up to four
o’clock that day when, Mother still at the Lancaster house, Laura Dalton
rang our doorbell, pushed Annie aside, walked deliberately up the stairs
and into my bedroom, and locked the door behind her.




                                 XXVIII


I have thought a great deal about Laura Dalton since that day. In the
Crescent her position was somewhat isolated; not because she did not
belong, for she had been born there. But as Herbert says, she was
suspended like Mahomet’s coffin, between heaven and earth. She was too
young for that close triumvirate which had consisted of Mother, Mrs.
Lancaster and Hester Talbot, and her marriage had placed an unbridgeable
gulf between the local spinsters and herself.

Doctor Armstrong, calling that morning to look me over, had expressed
some anxiety about her.

“It’s the wrong time of life for her to go through all this,” he said.
“Head looks all right to me, Lou; you can go down to dinner if you feel
up to it. But I’d be glad if you could talk to her a little. She’s got
something on her mind. She’s still pretty much in love with Bryan, you
know, and I imagine she’s got some sort of bee in her bonnet about him.”
He went into the bathroom, washed his hands carefully, and came back
still holding the towel.

“I suppose people make their own hell in this world,” he went on.
“They’re fond of each other, you know; probably a good bit more than
that. But they’re both stubborn. It’s twenty years since she locked her
door against him for some peccadillo or other, and I haven’t a doubt
myself that there have been a good many times since when she’s unlocked
it; and others when he had brought himself to try it, and had to go
away. Pitiful, isn’t it, with life so short!”

All that was in my mind that afternoon when Laura Dalton walked into my
room and locked the door behind her. I can see her now, in her pale
lavender summer silk, her too-youthful hat sitting high on her head, and
under it a pair of devastated eyes and a mouth that twitched with
nerves.

She did not even explain that locking of the door. She moved directly
across the room and stood over me, and for a moment I was startled. She
did not look quite sane. She wasted no time in preliminaries.

“Is it true,” she demanded, “that they have arrested George Talbot?”

“I don’t know about an arrest. They have taken him to Headquarters.”

“The fools. The fools!” she broke out. “Listen, Louisa, George never
killed Emily Lancaster, or her mother either. I know that. But I can’t
tell the police. I can’t. I _can’t_.”

It was some time before I could quiet her, and at first I did not
realize what she was trying to tell me. It was only after a full half
hour, while I listened to the bottled-up miseries of a jealous and
suspicious woman, still passionately in love with her husband and now
terrified beyond all control, that I knew that Mrs. Dalton believed that
her husband, with the assistance of Margaret Lancaster, had killed both
Margaret’s mother and her sister!

Stripped of inessentials, her narrative ran something like this:

Years ago, Margaret Lancaster had been engaged to Bryan Dalton. He did
not live on the Crescent then; but he used to come in his high trap and
take Margaret for drives. Mrs. Lancaster had opposed the match, however.

“She didn’t like Bryan,” was what she said. “And when Margaret insisted
on marrying him anyhow she simply went to bed for six months. I was very
young then,” she added quickly, “but my father had built here where we
are now, and I can remember my own mother saying that Mrs. Lancaster had
gone to bed because it was the one way she could keep Margaret at home.”

Then one day Bryan asked _her_ to drive with him, and after that they
became engaged and were married. “And I had the house by that time,” she
said, “so he came to live on the Crescent, although it wasn’t the
Crescent then. It was just country, and he never really liked it.”

It was to that, his boredom and his revolt against the Crescent, that
she laid his unfaithfulness. There had been somebody else, as she put
it, every now and then since. And for the past few months it had been
Margaret Lancaster again.

She was, I thought, trying to explain something to herself rather than
to me, for all this came out only by degrees. She would stop, stretch
the fingers of the gloves on her lap and start again, as though by going
over the whole business and trying to coördinate it for me, she was
trying to follow the steps by which she had come to her tragic
conviction.

“I thought it was all over,” she said. “I still can’t see—I think she
led him on, Louisa; for her own purposes. He hadn’t been faithful. We
separated years ago over a maid in my own house. But after all a man of
fifty—well, I thought all that was over. I suppose,” she added
doubtfully, “that I shouldn’t be telling you all this, Louisa. You’re
still a young woman.”

“I’m twenty-eight,” I said briefly. “I don’t think you’re telling me
much I don’t know. I can’t believe what you are telling me about
Margaret Lancaster. That’s all.”

I was, however, uneasily remembering that anonymous letter sent to the
police, and I felt that my voice lacked conviction. If it did she did
not notice.

“It’s true,” she asserted. “I don’t know how far it’s gone, but she’s
smart and not bad looking; and after all the time comes when any man has
to learn that young women aren’t interested in him.”

There was apparently no mistake about the situation. He had even taken
Margaret out driving, meeting her some place downtown; that was early in
August, and once she had found Margaret’s bag in the car. It had slipped
down beside a seat cushion, and she had given it to her husband without
speaking. He had simply shrugged his shoulders and taken it. But she had
no other proof. She had set herself to watch, but so far as she could
tell no letters passed between them. She believed now that they had;
that they had used the woodshed on the Lancaster place as a sort of post
office.

The affair, so far as she knew, had commenced late in June or early in
July.

Then abruptly she went on to the day of Mrs. Lancaster’s murder.

“Bryan was in the garage,” she said. “He had put on a pair of old
overalls, and I was at a window at the back of the house upstairs. I
wasn’t watching him,” she added. “I was measuring a window for new
curtains. And at half past three I saw him, in his overalls, go toward
the Lancaster woodshed. I could not see him all the way, of course. The
path curves, and you know how the shrubbery has grown. But I was curious
and I waited. And he didn’t come back _until a quarter after four_.”

She began to cry again, and I saw that she was trembling violently.

“Look here,” I said, “haven’t you just worked yourself into a state of
nerves over all this? Suppose he was near the Lancaster house at that
time? How could he get in? And why in heaven’s name would he want to get
in? It all sounds rather silly to me.”

“It won’t sound so silly when I’ve finished, Louisa,” she said with a
return of her dignity. “I’m not an utter fool. Perhaps I would be a
happier woman if I were!”

I was inclined to agree with her as she went on; for she did go on. What
she believed was that for a long time Margaret had been taking gold from
the chest under the bed, either with a duplicate key or by securing at
night the one from her mother’s neck. That she had carried it out of the
house, a little at a time, and hidden it; and that all of this was known
to Bryan Dalton. That it was in effect a part of their plan to run away
and live together somewhere, probably in Europe or South America.

“You see,” she said, as though the entire Crescent did not know it, “I
have the money. Bryan has very little of his own.”

Then, on the day Margaret had telephoned Jim Wellington that her father
wanted an audit and to examine the chest, they had both known the game
was up.

“He might have found a note in the woodshed, telling him,” she said.
“And of course there was the axe, right there in plain sight. I know it
sounds crazy, but wait, Louisa. How do we know he didn’t slip around the
house, and Margaret admit him by the front door?”

I am afraid I shivered, for she said then that she should not have come
to me after my own dreadful adventure; but that she was simply
desperate.

“I can’t let them hold George Talbot,” she wailed.

“Listen, Mrs. Dalton. Do you think Bryan Dalton shot Emily Lancaster, or
did this to me last night? Because I don’t.”

“God forgive me, Lou! I don’t know.”

“Well, I do know,” I told her. “He never left the house last night. They
had two men watching it.”

I remember that she got up then, her face colorless and still twitching.

“Then they suspect him! What am I to do, Lou? What am I to do? For he’s
guilty, Lou. He must be, or why did she give him that note last night to
burn his overalls? He did burn them, last Thursday night. There was a
fire still going out there and they disappeared. What else could he have
done with them?”

I was too stunned to speak.

“And why, when he heard Emily run out screaming, didn’t he go to her? He
must have been near enough to hear her. Who could help it? And why did
he come into the house from the garage after he took off his overalls
and tell Joseph to get him some whisky? In thirty years I’ve never known
him to take a drink before dinner. I tell you, Louisa, Bryan Dalton knew
that afternoon that Mrs. Lancaster had been murdered; for all his asking
Joseph to tell me that night, as though he had just read it in the
newspaper.”

When he came back into the house that afternoon she had been quietly
drinking her iced tea, and he never knew she had seen him. But of course
she still knew nothing of the murder. She was still without suspicion
that evening, in the library after dinner. He had looked very strange
when he called Joseph, however. She remembered that later on when they
had reached the Lancaster house. They did not enter it together. Bryan
rang the front doorbell. She herself had gone around and in by the
kitchen, fully aware that the servants would be more talkative than the
family. It was still only a crime to her, bad as it was.

But on emerging from the service wing into the side hall, she had seen
her husband and Margaret together for a second near the foot of the
front stairs. The Talbots were there also, but she had seen Margaret
slip a note into Bryan’s hand, and he had slid it into his pocket. She
was fishing in her hand-bag while she was telling me this, and I do not
even now know how or when she had got it from him later on. She passed
it to me, and I must say my flesh crept when I read it. It was in
Margaret’s clear strong hand.

“Please burn all letters at once, and destroy what I gave you this
afternoon. M.”

Just how she got possession of that note I do not know, nor did she say.
He had no idea that she knew he had it, and certainly she got it. But
after that, I imagine, all hell must have broken loose in the house when
she read it. To her, then and since, it had meant only one thing: that
Margaret and Bryan Dalton had killed Mrs. Lancaster as a preliminary to
a flight together, and that the crime was the result of a plot long
concocted and carefully carried out.

For she had never found the overalls.

That night, Thursday, she had searched for them, and for any letters
from Margaret. He had discovered what she was doing and had tried to
stop her, but she was like a crazy woman. There was no sign that he had
burned anything in any of the fireplaces, or in the furnace either. But
of course that idiot Daniels had had his usual fire in No Man’s Land,
and during that three or four hours in the afternoon after the murder he
could easily have walked out and dropped something there. Nobody would
have been likely to notice. Or maybe he did it at night. She did not
know.

That was the story Laura Dalton told me the Tuesday afternoon after our
two murders; stripping away for once the hypocrisies and traditional
reticences of the Crescent and revealing a naked and suffering soul. She
had done it with a certain amount of dignity at that, save for one or
two outbursts; stretching and pulling at her gloves, keeping her voice
down, and even—heaven help us!—once settling her skirt so that it hung
at the correct length about her ankles.

All I could do was to make her promise that she would not go to the
police for a day or so at least; and at last she drew on her gloves,
straightened her hat, and went away with that odd self-possession which
seems to characterize all the older women of the Crescent. Time takes
its toll of them, death and tragedy come inevitably, but they face the
world with quiet faces and unbroken dignity.

I even heard her thanking Annie as she let her out the front door.




                                  XXIX


I had another visitor that afternoon; Helen Wellington looking, I
thought, rather edgy, but determinedly cheerful. She came in, demanding
Herbert Dean, and seemed to think I might have him somewhere in a
closet.

“I thought he’d be here,” she said. “He seems to spend a lot of time
hanging about this place! Either he’s fallen for you or he suspects you;
you never can tell with him. Love or business, he’s equally secretive
about both.”

She inspected me carefully, including my rising color.

“I hope it’s love, of course,” she went on. “I’d just as soon see you
out of my way, Lou! Every time Jim and I have a fuss he spends hours
secretly convinced that I’m the Big Mistake and lamenting that he missed
out with you.”

“Don’t be so foolish, Helen.”

“Oh, I’m not foolish. After he has been noble and taken me back I spend
hours too, telling him how interesting I make life and how you would
have bored him. But it’s a fixed idea. However, don’t bother about that.
I want to wash my hands, and after that I want to choke Bertie Dean with
them. Do you know that I’ve spent the afternoon in the public library?
Believe it or not!”

She did not explain at once. From the bathroom she kept up a running
fire of talk; my own injury, the bombshell she had thrown the night
before—“if anyone is going to abuse Jim I’ll do it myself”—and George
Talbot’s detention.

“They’ve been all around the mulberry bush,” was her comment, “and I
dare say they’ll be back to us now. I haven’t a doubt myself but that
your mother did it. They’ve suspected everybody else.”

It was characteristic of her to return from the bathroom carrying both a
bottle of hand lotion and a towel; and that she immediately spilled the
one on the carpet and mopped it up with the other. But it is also
characteristic that just then Annie came up with an enormous bunch of
expensive roses which Helen had brought in with her.

“Don’t thank me,” she said. “They’re simply an expression of relief.
Failing with my little poker last night, I now hope that Bertie Dean may
carry you off out of sheer anxiety for your safety! Lou, why do you
suppose he sent me to the library today? I’ll give you three guesses,
and don’t guess a book. He knows me better than that.”

When she finally dropped her bantering air, it was to reveal that her
errand had been to look over old files of the local newspapers; not so
old, really, but from the first of March to the first of August, and to
look in the proper section for someone either advertising for a room in
our vicinity, the reply to be sent in care of general delivery; or for a
room advertised to let, furnished.

“Although just why anybody would come voluntarily into this vicinity is
a mystery to me,” she finished. “There you are. That’s what he wanted,
and I never suspected that anywhere in the world there were so many
bright, attractive rooms, ‘nicely furnished, run. water, use parlor,
rent reasonable.’”

She had eight in all, copied out in her square modern script, and she
laid them on my lap. Only one of them concerned a room in our immediate
vicinity, and I could not see how it could possible have any bearing on
our situation. I read it over twice:

“Wanted: By trained nurse, furnished room near General Hospital. Must
have telephone in house.”

“I can’t see how that could mean anything,” I said.

“No? Then you don’t know our Bertie. If you did you would realize that
our murderer, masquerading as a lady, has probably been living in that
room and stroking fevered brows between crimes, so to speak. The
telephone, of course, is pure camouflage! Well, I’ve done my job. I have
to save my man; he’s a poor thing but mine own. And now I’m going home
to take a bath.”

Writing this record and piecing together from this and that the whole
story of our crimes, I have often thought of that visit of Helen’s and
wondered exactly what would have happened had those angular notes of
hers reached Herbert Dean and the police in time. But they did not. She
was cheerful enough when she left me, apparently even gay. I heard her
whistling as she went down the street, a gesture of bravado with which
she often shocked the Crescent. She was fighting Jim’s fight for him
with a certain gallantry, as witness the night before.

Yet she and Jim quarreled again that afternoon, and I think there is no
question but that the two deaths which followed were due entirely to
that. Possibly she knows it; it is a different Helen who now lives in
the house nearest to the Crescent gate. She still swaggers, but the old
casual careless ways are gone.

Even John, that suave and impassive police agent who was in the
Wellington house as a butler, did not know what it was about. Although
he was certainly suspicious; and I have never held Jim guiltless. He was
in a bad state of nerves, irascible and impatient, and Helen was not a
person to stand for either.

However that may be, at seven o’clock when Annie brought up my supper
tray she was pop-eyed with information.

“Mrs. Wellington’s gone again, miss.”

“Gone? Gone where?”

“That I can’t say, miss. I believe they had a few words, and she just
called a taxicab and went away in it. I must say it’s a poor time to
leave Mr. Jim, with him needing all the comfort he can get.”

All of which, as I have said, is not important. What was vitally
important was that she carried away with her in her hand-bag those notes
made at the library, and that she did not go to her usual hotel. When
she was finally located—she really located herself—she still had the
notes in her bag, having forgotten them completely; but they were
useless then.

I have wondered since what would have happened, or not happened, had
Helen gone to the police that day with what she knew. The notes in her
bag and her story of that Sunday night. But she did not. She was
frightened, like all the rest of us.

Would we have seen it all? Perhaps it was not possible even then,
although Herbert Dean came closer than any of us to guessing the truth.
But as Doctor Armstrong said afterwards:

“Upon my word, Lou, if everyone on the Crescent had had a dose of some
drug like hyoscine, and been so released from all his normal repressions
that he’d had to tell the truth, we’d have saved some of these people.
Not hyoscine perhaps; it causes fantasy; but something to put the brain
censors to sleep. All we needed was a little openness, but everybody was
afraid.”

Which was true enough, for it was not until that evening, Tuesday, that
I learned that Peggy from the Lancasters’ had had her purse snatched
from her in No Man’s Land on Sunday night; and had been so terrified to
report it for fear of some reprisal that even our servants did not know
it for a day or two. Here too Annie was my source of information. She
came up to turn down my bed that night, and her mouth was set hard and
tight. She had just heard the news, from Peggy herself.

“She’s a little fool, and I’ve told her so,” she said. “Because, Miss
Lou, whatever these police may think—and so far as I can see their
thinking isn’t getting them anywhere anyhow—the whole thing ain’t what
you’d call natural. Why did he bring the purse back? If that isn’t the
act of a lunatic, what is?”

And Peggy’s story as related by Annie had indeed an unusual element.

She had been at home that evening; she lived somewhere in the
neighborhood. And as she had been late, which is a grave offense with
us, she had taken the short cut across No Man’s Land. In the woodland
behind the Wellingtons’, where the path is shady for two hundred feet or
so, she had suddenly seen a man emerge from the shadows and come toward
her.

She was startled and stopped dead, but the man said: “Don’t be afraid,
please. I have no idea of hurting you. But I want that bag.”

She gave it to him. He wore a soft hat pulled down on his head and she
thought a pull-on sweater, one of those with a high rolling collar which
covered the lower part of his face. But he made no effort to attack her,
and perhaps the most unusual thing about it was that he thanked her when
she gave him the bag.

He took it and moved quickly back among the trees, and Peggy ran as fast
as she could to the Lancasters’. She had been in a bad state when Ellen
let her in, but she had only said that she had hurried and that she had
lost her bag while running.

“And the next morning,” said Annie with unction, “when Ellen opened the
porch door to get the milk, there was that bag hanging on the doorknob.
All her money in it, too! If that’s not the act of a lunatic, then I’m
crazy myself.”

I did not tell Mother. She was sufficiently uneasy as things were, and I
gathered that she had demanded a police guard for our house that night.
Which was perhaps the time when the Commissioner sent for Inspector
Briggs and asked him if he would like the library on Liberty Avenue as
headquarters for his operatives on the case! Or—I believe he
added—should he wire the governor to send the National Guard!

Mother was very silent that night. Conditions in the house next door
were simply lamentable. Mr. Lancaster had not spoken since Sunday night
and was slowly sinking, and Margaret was a ghost. She did not eat or
sleep, and she scarcely spoke.

“Really,” Mother said, “I don’t understand her, Louisa. She will hardly
go into her stepfather’s room! I relieved the nurse for sleep this
afternoon, and Jennie did it yesterday. Yet she has always been devoted
to him. She is not like herself at all.”

The verdict of the inquest over Emily had been much the same as that
over her mother. It had not taken long, and the funeral was to be the
next day. Margaret had returned from the inquest only to shut herself in
her room, and Mother had not seen her again.

I watched Mother as she talked. She was excited and unusually
loquacious, but in spite of all that had happened I came definitely to
the conclusion that night that Mother had shown a certain relief ever
since Emily Lancaster’s death. It was much the same as she had shown
that day when she had sent for Mrs. Talbot. She was bitterly sorry for
Emily, but it was as though some doubt in her mind, some suspicion, had
been definitely allayed by it.

It was that night that George Talbot was released on bail as a material
witness. The ballistics expert of the Department was, I believe, still
firing test bullets out of George’s revolver and examining the results
under a microscope, for late that night he telephoned in to Headquarters
a rather surprising report. George was on his way home by that time,
angry and bewildered as well as more than a little frightened; and it
was several days before he knew anything at all about that report.

“I’m not committing myself yet,” said the expert cautiously, “but what
it looks like to me is that somebody has switched the barrels of two
pistols. Mind you, that’s only a theory so far. The bullet that killed
Emily Lancaster came out of this barrel. That’s certain. But I’m not
sure it was fired out of this gun.”




                                  XXX


That was on Tuesday night.

Perhaps I have said too little so far about the effect on our community
of our two murders. That belongs here, for it directly affected our
situation and what was to develop out of it. Because of it the local
hardware dealers were busy selling extra bolts and locks, and also
chains for entrance doors; and because one woman in our vicinity had
bought such a chain for her front door, that Wednesday found us at the
beginning of a new mystery and another tragedy.

The reign of terror, as the press called it, was never limited to the
Crescent. The public was convinced from the start that a homicidal
maniac was loose in that part of the city, although statements from the
nearby State Hospital for the Criminal Insane had shown not only that no
such patient had recently escaped, but also that an hour-by-hour check
was made of all patients and all attendants.

The rumor persisted, however, and the killing of Emily Lancaster,
apparently as motiveless as that of her mother, served to magnify it.
Our delivery boys ran in with their parcels of meat or groceries and got
away as fast as they could. No children slipped into No Man’s Land to
play, and many of them were escorted to school and back again. Servants
in the early morning peered out of windows before opening kitchen doors
to take in the milk. There were no curious crowds watching from beyond
our gates; and at night those people who were compelled to pass the
Crescent on Liberty Avenue chose, not the long area bounded by the
Wellington and Talbot hedges, but the other side of the street.

To all this had now been added the attack on me. One tabloid came out
with the statement that there had been thirteen people on the Crescent
at the beginning of our troubles, and went on at length to discuss the
number thirteen and the almost universal superstition concerning it; the
fact that no house in Paris bears that number, that it is left out of
Italian lotteries, and that the superstition itself runs back into Norse
mythology, although in Christian countries it is supposed to have
originated from the Last Supper.

What is important in all this is that the Crescent locally at least had
become taboo, a fact which left us without possible witnesses for the
remainder of that dreadful week, and without even our rare visitors from
other parts of town for a far longer period.

For on that Wednesday we were involved in another mystery and another
death.

There is so far as I know only one coincidence in this record, and that
was that the day of Emily Lancaster’s funeral was also the anniversary
of my father’s death. Yet it was to have its consequences.

For twenty years Mother had observed this anniversary in almost
ritualistic manner. Thus in the morning, accompanied by my Aunt
Caroline, my father’s remaining sister, she visited the cemetery, and
generally had a discussion and a quarrel with the Superintendent over
the condition of our lot. From there she went into the city to lunch
sadly but substantially with Aunt Caroline, after which they took a
drive to Aunt Caroline’s husband’s grave, and the morning’s procedure
was repeated there.

On this particular morning therefore the only variation was that the two
first witnessed the final rites over Emily Lancaster, and on the
departure of the funeral procession of cars, carried out the usual
program. With a difference, however.

It was after one o’clock, and I had managed to dress and get downstairs,
when Mother called me on the telephone in an exasperated voice and
demanded to know if I had heard from Holmes and the car.

“From Holmes?” I said, astounded. “I thought you had him. Where are
you?”

“I’m at the cemetery with your Aunt Caroline,” she said shortly. “That
wretch drove us here and then simply drove away again. And the
Superintendent has gone to lunch and the office is locked. I never heard
of such a thing! We’ve walked for miles.”

Well, I must admit that the picture of Mother and Aunt Caroline in their
best black left stranded at the Greenwood Cemetery was almost too much
for me. It is miles from anywhere, and I doubt if either of them has
walked four blocks in as many years. But I agreed that it was dreadful,
and to send a taxi for them at once. Which I did immediately.

When I turned it was to find Annie at my elbow.

“I suppose that Holmes has gone, miss?”

“How in the world did you know?”

“Because he carried his clothes away last night,” she said promptly.

“Why on earth didn’t you tell us that?”

“And get my throat cut?” she said darkly. “No, miss, I know my business
and I value my life.”

I went back to his room over the garage at once, and discovered that
Annie was right. He had slept there; with a guard around the house he
had been no longer needed inside it. His bed was untidy and his bathroom
had been used. But his closet was stripped bare of clothing and his
battered suitcase gone from under the window where it always stood.

There was no question but that Holmes had gone, and it looked just then
as though a three-thousand dollar car had gone with him.

Mother got out of a taxicab shortly after that, and limped into the
house. What with the heat, her heavy black and a very considerable
indignation, she was in a state of almost complete demoralization.

She sat down in a hall chair and closed her eyes, and she said nothing
whatever until Annie had unlaced and taken off her shoes. Then:

“That wretch!” she said. “I never did trust him, and I never will.”

“And right you are, ma’am,” said Annie. “You’ll be lucky if you ever see
him or the car again. That’s what I think, besides making you walk on
that bunion in this heat. Look at it!”

“That’s arthritis, Annie,” Mother said sharply.

We got her upstairs and into bed, and I turned on the electric fan. Then
Mary sent up some luncheon on a tray, and what with rest and some food
she grew more calm. It was not until she was comfortable and quiet that
I told her that Holmes’s clothes were gone and that whatever his reason
might have been for leaving her and Aunt Caroline in the cemetery, it
had evidently been planned at least a day ahead.

After that I notified the police, but it was half past two by that time,
and too late, as we knew later on.

So far as we were concerned, the remainder of the day was uneventful. At
three in the afternoon I saw Bryan Dalton, perhaps less florid than
usual but impeccably dressed, get out his car and drive off in it. But I
did not know then that he was on his way to a downtown office, where the
District Attorney and two or three other men were grouped around a desk
on which were lying, carefully tagged, a handful of scorched buttons and
two irregular pieces of window glass, held together more or less neatly
by two rubber bands.

“Then, as I understand it, you do not identify these buttons?”

“How can I? I suppose automobile overalls are much alike. I wear them to
save my clothes.”

“But you admit burning your overalls the night following the murder.
That’s the fact, isn’t it?”

“Admit? What do you mean by admit? I burned them, certainly. It isn’t
the first time I’ve done so, either. You can ask my man, Joseph. I wear
them until they’re soiled and then have them destroyed.”

“Precisely. But isn’t this the first time you’ve done it yourself, Mr.
Dalton? I mean, hasn’t this Joseph always done it before?”

“Perhaps. I don’t remember. And before I go on, I want to know my status
here. Am I under suspicion, or am I merely to help you with your
investigation? If I’m under suspicion I shall want my lawyer.”

“In a way, everyone is under suspicion just now,” said the District
Attorney smoothly. “I can only remind you that an open statement of fact
has never hurt an innocent person, and that I don’t think you have been
particularly open so far. Now, as to this—er—exhibit under glass. You
know nothing about it?”

“Nothing whatever.”

“You could not, by examining it, even venture a guess as to what it is?
Or has been?”

“I have examined it. I don’t know what it is.”

And it was then that the District Attorney received a note in Herbert
Dean’s writing, read it and laid it on the desk before him. When he
looked up his examination took a new and different angle.

“Mr. Dalton,” he said, “do you know of any poison ivy around the
Crescent? In that vicinity, I mean.”

“Poison ivy! Are you trying to be funny?”

“I’m afraid not. It’s entirely pertinent to our inquiry.”

Bryan Dalton shook his head.

“I don’t know of any,” he said. “I suppose you fellows know what you’re
talking about, but—poison ivy!” Then he smiled rather grimly. “You
don’t know us or you wouldn’t ask that! Of course I can’t speak for the
waste land behind us; although I’ve never noticed it there.”

There was, I believe, a pause here. The District Attorney picked up the
note from the desk and handed it to the Commissioner, who looked
surprised but nodded. And it was the Commissioner who, note in hand,
asked the next question.

“Just how long,” he inquired gruffly, “on the afternoon of Thursday of
last week, did you stand beside the Lancaster woodshed, Mr. Dalton?”

He must have looked around him then at that ring of intent faces, all
turned toward him. There was no pity in any of them. They were hard; set
and grim, like those of men peering into a microscope at some imprisoned
insect. Probably after his habit he ran a finger inside his collar, as
though it was too tight for him. Then he smiled again.

“I suppose if I refuse to answer that it will be held against me!”

“I can only repeat what I said before, Mr. Dalton.”

“I was there perhaps ten minutes.”

“You are certain that is all?”

“Absolutely certain.”

“Will you explain just why you were there? There must have been a
reason. If you’ll tell us that reason frankly, I assure you we will hold
it as confidential—unless, of course, it turns out to have an important
bearing on the case.”

But there he surprised them.

“Why I was there has nothing to do with this inquiry,” he said shortly.
“If you want a reason for your record put it down that I was hunting for
a golf ball. That’s as good as another. It’s as far as I care to go
anyhow, and you can take it or leave it.”

That practically ended the interrogation. There was not a man there who
did not know he was concealing something, although they could not be
certain that what he concealed had any bearing on the case. But there
was also not a man there who did not believe that he had lied about his
ten minutes, and that he had stood beside that woodshed of the
Lancasters’ long enough to smoke almost in its entirety one expensive
Belinda cigar, made for him in Havana.

“Although,” as the Inspector said to me a long time afterwards, “that in
itself didn’t mean a lot. It was pretty hard to believe that in the half
hour to forty minutes he was there that afternoon he could have smoked a
cigar of that size and still killed the old lady. And he wasn’t smoking
either when his butler saw him go or when he came back.”

A little statement which once more bears out my conviction that from the
very start our servants knew more of our crimes than we did.

We knew nothing of all this that afternoon, of course. Mother was too
fagged to relieve the nurse that afternoon, and Lydia Talbot did it
instead. Margaret was still shut in her room, refusing to allow Lydia to
call the doctor. Mrs. Talbot was still seething with ire about George’s
interrogation, and her Lizzie reported that she was sitting locked in
her room, shouting infuriated house orders through her door. In the
house nearest the gate Jim Wellington was trying to locate Helen; partly
for himself and partly for Herbert Dean, who was annoyed at her absence.
And next door to us Laura Dalton was nursing her jealousy and her
suspicion, while I dare say Joseph watched her out of eyes that saw a
great deal more than they pretended.

Holmes was still missing.




                                  XXXI


There had been a little by-play enacted that Wednesday morning, however,
of which I knew nothing at the time.

With the household at Miss Emily’s funeral and only the nurse in charge
of the Lancaster house, Herbert Dean and Inspector Briggs had gone
there. The nurse opened the door, and after a short talk with her she
went upstairs and returned shortly carrying a small object under her
apron.

This object the Inspector pocketed, and after that the two men went
quietly up the stairs. They remained for more than an hour, the
Inspector an interested bystander most of the time, and before they left
Dean, as the slimmer of the two, had crawled through a small window onto
the roof of the kitchen porch and had there carefully examined the
guttering and the opening of the water spout. Whatever he had found
inside the house, he found nothing there and at last the two had
departed, Herbert to a microscope in a laboratory downtown, where I
believe he examined an ordinary house-sponge, and the Inspector to that
interrogation of Bryan Dalton which had so exasperated everyone working
on the case.

Mother rallied long enough that evening to eat a squab and some
blanc-mange, but she was in a bad humor. Doctor Armstrong had come in at
six o’clock to give her her hypodermic of iron, but he was too much
interested in Holmes’s disappearance and too little in her own annoyance
to please her.

“That’s another instance of what I’m talking about,” he said. “The
servants here know Holmes is taking out his clothes, but do they tell?
They do not. The whole damned Crescent is a conspiracy of silence!”

Mother eyed him coldly.

“The people who could talk will never talk again, doctor. Besides, why
go further than we have gone? This deliberate disappearance of my
chauffeur can mean only one thing.”

“You honestly believe that Holmes is guilty?”

“Why not? He’s probably had that gold hidden somewhere all the time, and
now he’s got away with it. And who but Holmes could have attacked
Louisa?”

“He was locked in, wasn’t he?”

“How do we know he hadn’t a second key?”

“But why attack Lou, of all people?”

“That’s for the police to find out,” said Mother loftily. “Although I
must say what they have found so far doesn’t justify any hope in that
direction. But people do very strange things sometimes, doctor. I well
remember when our dear Bishop got up one night, walked into his wife’s
room and simply jerked the footboard off her bed. He said afterwards
that he had been asleep, but I have always wondered.”

When I left the room to see the doctor out he voiced what I was feeling.

“Let her think it, if she can,” he said. “Maybe she’s right at that, but
I don’t believe it. Still, it probably comforts her to blame him. She’s
got in him a criminal she can accept. He belongs to the class which,
according to her ideas, normally produces criminals. And she’s been
afraid it was somebody else, Lou. Don’t forget that. She’s been afraid
of that from the start.”

That was at six o’clock, and both the car and Holmes remained among the
missing until nine o’clock that night. Then it was Inspector Briggs who
brought me the word that the one had been found, if not the other.

“We have your car, Miss Hall,” he said. “It was abandoned quite a way
out of town, and a sheriff’s car picked it up. They’ll bring it back in
the morning.”

Annie had shown him into the library, and now he sat pinching his lip as
usual and with his eyes fixed on me intently.

“You know, Miss Hall, the deeper I get into this thing—and God knows
I’m over my head already—the more I believe that it’s the story we’re
after. A story. Get the story and you understand the rest. And maybe
when we understand—well, maybe this piece has a villain and maybe it
hasn’t, if you see what I mean.”

“It was a pretty wicked thing to kill those two women, wasn’t it?”

“It’s a pretty wicked thing to kill anybody. And it’s a pretty wicked
thing, too, to send somebody to the chair unless he deserves it. I could
lie awake nights worrying about things I’ve never been so sure of as the
public has been. Well——!”

He leaned forward in his chair.

“Let’s get this Crescent of yours clear,” he said. “Relationships, old
quarrels, all the freakish ideas, like that one of Mrs. Talbot’s about
locking herself in. What’s wrong between young Wellington and his wife,
if anything? And even here, in this house. What about yourselves? And
where does this Holmes come in? As I recall it, he had your mother out
for a drive on the day Mrs. Lancaster was murdered.”

“He did. But he has been rather queer, Inspector, ever since.”

He listened while I told him about that night when I had seen him
tearing pages out of a book, although he seemed to set rather less store
by it than Herbert Dean had done.

“Funny performance,” was his comment. “I don’t suppose you know what
sort of book it was?”

“It was a detective story.”

“Was, eh? Well, that doesn’t mean he’s a criminal. I believe our best
people read them nowadays! And don’t jump too fast to the idea that
Holmes is a killer. He didn’t kill Mrs. Lancaster. That’s sure. It’s
just possible that he has had all along a pretty shrewd idea of where
that money is; and that as it’s heavy stuff he had a motive in taking
the car today. Although even that’s curious. He takes a conspicuous
limousine and wears a uniform. Now if a fellow wants to get away with
something like that he generally does it at night, and as
inconspicuously as he can. Still—now let’s start with this Crescent,
beginning at the gate. This Jim Wellington; he was a nephew of Mrs.
Lancaster’s, isn’t that it?”

“Of her first husband. He and George Talbot are cousins. Of course his
uncle has been dead so long that we always think of Mrs. Lancaster as
his real aunt. Jim’s mother was a Talbot.”

“Humph! Pretty well related, all of you, aren’t you?”

“We are not. Or the Daltons.”

“All right. Let’s get back to the Wellingtons. He’s an orphan, I
suppose?”

“Yes. His mother died ten years ago. She was rather queer; but Jim
isn’t, of course.”

“How was she queer?”

“I don’t exactly know,” I said vaguely. “She was very religious, if
that’s queer! And I remember that she walked a good bit, and talked to
herself. She frightened me when I was a little girl. But she was all
right otherwise. She was a very intelligent woman really. I—it seems
rather awful, Inspector, to talk about people like this. She was really
very kind. She gave a great deal to charity.”

He nodded.

“Well, queer or not she’s dead and out of it. I suppose you know
Wellington has refused to profit by his aunt’s will? Must have money of
his own, eh?”

“He has a good income, but of course——”

“He has an extravagant wife! But, all sentiment aside, you don’t think
Jim Wellington would steal and kill. That’s it, isn’t it?”

“I’m sure of it. He—well, he simply hasn’t that sort of courage, if you
call it courage, Inspector.”

“I gather you didn’t always feel that way about him.”

I could feel my color rising.

“That has nothing to do with it.”

He sat forward in his chair.

“Why didn’t you marry him, Miss Hall? That isn’t an impertinent
question. There must have been a reason.”

“I couldn’t leave my mother all alone.”

“And she objected? Why? Because his mother was what you call queer?”

“No. But you see she had felt my father’s death very deeply, and of
course——”

“Of course, as a good daughter, you made your sacrifice. Well, it takes
all sorts to make a world. Now let’s move on. The Daltons related to
anyone here?”

“No. Mrs. Dalton inherited the place, and he came there to live when
they were married.”

“Why don’t they speak to each other? And how long has that gone on?”

“Twenty years.”

“My God! What a life. Do you know what started it?”

“He used to be rather gay,” I said carefully. “It may have been
something like that.”

“Were they on good terms with the Lancasters?”

“Very good. Rather formal, of course. We are rather formal here, you
see, Inspector. We don’t do much running back and forth.”

“And she has the money?”

“I think he has a little of his own. I really don’t know.”

“Now what about him and Margaret Lancaster? You needn’t worry about
telling, for we know anyhow. We know he was in his garage that afternoon
working in a pair of old overalls over the engine of his car, and we
know that those overalls have disappeared and he’s got a new pair. That
may not mean anything, of course. I’m telling you so you won’t
feel—well, too scrupulous. And we know he’s been meeting the other
woman. Why? Have you any idea?”

“I never heard anything about him and Margaret Lancaster until you
showed me that letter, Inspector.”

He was not satisfied, I knew. He sat with his eyes drilling into me, but
at last he moved and spoke.

“All right,” he said. “Let’s get on. Now what about the Lancasters? What
about the way they got along together? How did the old gentleman like
his stepdaughters? What about Mrs. Lancaster? Did she put up the money,
like Mrs. Dalton, or did he?”

I tried my best, but they had been so long a part of my exterior life
that I found it hard to detach myself.

“I really don’t know,” I said at last. “Both of them were well off, I
believe. They lived quietly always, even before she got sick. As a
matter of fact, she had had bad health long before I was born. I suppose
that’s one reason why the girls never married. She didn’t have a stroke
or anything like that, you know. She just grew more and more feeble, and
at last she took to her bed. She hadn’t left it for a good many years;
she couldn’t take a step. I think it was something wrong with her spine,
but I don’t really know.”

“But they got along all right?”

“They did indeed. Of course Mr. Lancaster disliked her hoarding the
gold—you know that—and Margaret was impatient sometimes. Her mother
was rather fretful, especially in the summer; she fussed about her food,
and Margaret was the housekeeper. But I think that’s all.”

“In other words,” he said, “the usual rather disagreeable old invalid!
Well, she’s gone, so we’ll let her alone. Now—how did the others like
Miss Emily? What about her, anyhow? What sort of a life did she live?
Try to think about her and make a real picture. Look back a bit.”

I found it very hard.

“She used to be rather pretty. When I was a little girl she was still
pretty. Later on she had to sit with her mother so much that she got
heavy. I really don’t know anything more, Inspector.”

“She had no one outside the family? No close friends?”

“I never heard of any. She adored a canary I gave her one Christmas. It
was almost sad, the way she fussed over it, as though—well, you know
what I mean. If she had had children——”

He nodded again, as though even a male could understand that vicarious
maternity of Emily Lancaster’s.

“I get you. No reason then to suppose that the old gentleman disliked
her, or was afraid of her, or anything like that?”

“None whatever,” I said rather stiffly. “Why on earth should he do
either?”

He ignored that, pinching his lip thoughtfully.

“Humph! Well, what about Miss Margaret? Not so even-tempered as her
sister, I understand. Gets angry easily, isn’t that it?”

“She’s over it in a minute, Inspector.”

“Do you think the family knew about this affair with Dalton?”

“No. And I don’t think it was an affair.”

“Maybe. Maybe not. Then according to you there’s no story in that house.
Just a lot of elderly and middle-aged people living their own lives,
until someone comes along and without reason wipes out two of them. Is
that it?”

“I can’t see it any other way.”

“All peaceable and calm, until the old lady begins to hoard that gold
under her bed, and somebody who knows about it takes it out and loads
the bags with dress weights!”

“But that’s not so strange as it sounds,” I told him. “We all have them.
We all use them. I remember seeing a lot of them in a keg in the
Lancasters’ woodshed last spring. Miss Margaret was potting some plants,
and putting them in the bottoms of the pots. But I imagine she used them
all.”

He was thoughtful for a moment. Then he reached into his pocket and drew
out his notebook. After examining it, he glanced at me.

“What about this seamstress, anyhow? She must know a lot about this
Crescent, and the people in it. Is she a tall thin woman, angular, with
gray hair?”

“Miss Mamie! No. She’s very short and very fat.”

“Can you place such a woman, anywhere in the Crescent?”

“Only Miss Lydia Talbot, and a maid of theirs, Lizzie Cromwell. Our own
cook, Mary, is rather like that, too.”

“All right,” he said as he put the book away. “Now we’re up to the
Talbots, and a queer kettle of fish they are. What do you know about
them? What goes on behind those barred windows and locked doors? Or do
you know?”

I tried to tell him. How Mrs. Talbot rarely left her room at the back of
the house, but sat there with her doors locked doing enormous quantities
of crocheting—not a house in the Crescent but duly received its gift at
Christmas of some terrible thing which it was supposed to use and
display—and reading voraciously book after book. How she dominated her
household, which was all in deadly fear of her except Lizzie Cromwell,
who had been there for years, and in less degree George Talbot himself.
How she measured out each morning the day’s supplies from the store
closet off the kitchen, and then locked the door; and how woe betide any
cook who demanded an extra egg or spoonful of tea thereafter. Also how
her sister-in-law, Miss Lydia, had to live there because it was all the
home she had; and although she did the buying, was carefully audited to
the last cent.

And yet, with all of this, how Mrs. Talbot was the first on hand in case
of trouble; as witness her visits to Mrs. Lancaster, who was her
sister-in-law by her first husband and who, in view of the fact that
Mrs. Talbot had been deserted by that husband’s brother, might well
enough have been let alone, or ignored.

He listened carefully, his eyes intent and penetrating.

“Good friends, were they?” he asked. “She didn’t resent Mrs. Lancaster’s
second marriage, or anything like that?”

“I think they had been better friends in the past few years,” I said
cautiously. “Before that there was some sort of trouble. I’ve never
known what. Just a family quarrel, I believe. But that was years ago.”

“You don’t know what it was about?”

“I haven’t an idea. I’ve always thought it was because when Mr. Talbot
died—Mrs. Lancaster’s first husband—his will didn’t provide for Miss
Lydia, who was his sister, and Mrs. Lancaster left her to Mrs. John
Talbot to look after. But it may not have been that at all.”

“Probably was,” he agreed. “The more money people have the more care
they take of it. That’s why they have it. Well, we’ve got to the son
there, George. How does he manage with all this locking up? It isn’t a
normal life for a young man. You’ll grant that.”

“He’s never known anything else. Of course he realizes it’s unusual, but
he is really fond of his mother. He dodges some of it by living his own
life outside. That’s only natural.”

“What do you mean by his own life?”

“Tennis, golf, clubs.”

“And women?”

“I don’t believe so. I’ve never heard anything of that sort. But then,
of course, I wouldn’t.”

It was nearly ten o’clock when he left, leaving me rather exhausted. I
went to bed shortly afterwards, and I was sleeping soundly when between
twelve and one o’clock that same night a motorist on the North Road
found the body of Holmes lying on the cement a dozen or so miles out of
town.




                                 XXXII


Although when he abandoned Mother and Aunt Caroline he had worn a smart
uniform, when found he was dressed in shabby clothes, and a cap which
was badly worn lay a foot or two away. Apparently he had been struck by
a hit-and-run driver, and with the feeling that he might be still alive
the motorist brought him in, with his horn blowing like a police siren,
to the General Hospital not far from us on Liberty Avenue.

The hospital, finding nothing on him to identify him and having
discovered without any particular emotion that he was dead, then sent
him downtown to the morgue. And it was at the morgue the next morning
that Detective Sullivan of the Homicide Squad, taking what he called a
general look-see after what looked like a double suicide but might be
murder, saw him and found his face familiar.

“I’ve seen him somewhere,” he said. “Seen him lately, too.”

He walked away, intent on his other problem; but Holmes bothered him. He
has, I believe, a reputation in the Force for a tenacious memory, and at
last it came to him. He had queried this man on the Lancaster case,
along with the other servants.

He shot back to the table and looked the body over carefully. There was
no real indication that the man had been murdered, although there was a
rather bad contusion on the back of his head. It looked like another
hit-and-run case; but he knew that our car had been missing the
afternoon before and found abandoned later, although not on the North
Road. In almost the opposite direction, in fact.

It did not fit.

“Let’s see this fellow’s uniform,” he said at last. “There’s something
not just right about this. Get his clothes, somebody.”

Somebody did, laying them out on a white table, and Sullivan surveyed
them with some surprise.

“Sure these are his? Last time he was seen he was in full uniform with
breeches and puttees, and driving a limousine.”

“Seems to have lost the lot, then,” said the attendant; “including the
car! Those are his, all right.”

Mr. Sullivan looked over the layout. There were no papers. There was a
five-dollar bill and some small change, and a very soiled handkerchief.
For the rest, a suit of summer underwear, a new shirt, old and worn
overall pants and a coat, a nondescript belt, the battered cap and worn
shoes and socks. There was not a mark on anything that could identify
him, but there was one thing that was peculiar. His left-hand pocket was
filled with keys, small keys of almost every sort and description. There
were about two dozen of them.

“Looks like a housebreaker,” said the attendant. But I believe Mr.
Sullivan made no comment. He was examining the shirt carefully, a new
white shirt of an inexpensive type.

“Had his coat on when he was brought in, did he?”

“Yes, Mr. Sullivan. I took it off myself.”

Sullivan was no talker. He gathered up the shirt, being careful not to
smear certain marks on it, and carried it away under his arm. Then,
having pocketed that vast array of keys and with a parting glance at the
quiet figure on the slab, he simply walked out again.

It was eleven o’clock on that Thursday morning when he rang our
doorbell. I was in the lower hall arranging the flowers; it being one of
our traditions that a gentlewoman attends to the house flowers in the
morning, and that the daughters of the house are particularly fitted for
this task. Mother was fussing with Mary in the pantry, but she came
forward when the bell rang, and I must say she received the news of
Holmes’s death heroically.

“Dear me,” she said. “And almost a month’s wages due him! Had he a
family, Louisa, do you know?”

“I think not. He had a little place in the country. He never mentioned a
family.”

Which represents very clearly our attitude toward our men servants, when
we have any. Our women are different. We watch over their health, their
relatives and their morals, and in effect ring a curfew for them every
night at ten. Our men, however, strictly preserve their anonymity. Even
today I doubt if the Daltons know whether Joseph when he goes out leaves
them for a family, for some less regular relationship, or to go to the
movies! And it is also a fact that when Mr. Sullivan asked us what was
Holmes’s given name, we were obliged to consult Mary and eventually
Annie before we remembered it.

“William Holmes,” said Mr. Sullivan. “Well, that’s something anyhow. And
now, he’d better be identified. If either one of you ladies——”

To my astonishment Mother at once volunteered to do so.

“I do not want Louisa in such a place,” she said, referring to the
morgue and ignoring the fact that violent death and I were no longer
strangers. “I shall go myself, Louisa. Order the car.”

Then she remembered, and she showed for her what was almost emotion.

“Poor Holmes!” she said. “He was always so careful, especially at the
corners. Order a taxi, Louisa.”

It turned out, however, that Mr. Sullivan had his own car; a low open
sports roadster. It took some effort to get Mother into it at all, and I
still remember the almost shocked look of surprise with which she found
herself, as they drove away, with her feet almost straight out in front
of her, while of necessity she was more or less sitting on the small of
her back.

Our household received the news without any great emotion. Neither of
the two maids had cared for Holmes, and while they were shocked, they
made no pretense at grief.

“Always snooping, he was,” Mary said. “Not that I want to speak ill of
the dead, miss; but it’s a fact. He spent more time up in his room
watching out the windows than he ever did over his work.”

While Mother had prepared for her visit to the morgue, Mr. Sullivan had
visited and closely inspected Holmes’s quarters over the garage. Also he
had questioned the servants. The sum total of their knowledge was
unimportant. He was apparently unmarried, or at least had never
mentioned having a family. He had the little place in the country I have
mentioned, but he had never told where it was. And they believed that he
had done a little polite bootlegging for George Talbot, the Daltons and
the Wellingtons; and perhaps more than a little less polite liquor
dealing elsewhere.

I went back again to his quarters after Mr. Sullivan had driven Mother
off, going at the pace for which she would have instantly dismissed
Holmes, or any chauffeur. The door to the staircase was locked as usual,
but I had taken the house keys with me and I had no difficulty in
opening it. The stairs were dirty, for, whatever Holmes’s virtues,
neatness was not among them. At the top they opened at the right into
his bedroom, which with a most untidy bathroom comprised his living
quarters.

There was no question as I looked about but that when Holmes left Mother
and Aunt Caroline at the cemetery the afternoon before, he had not
intended to return. As I have said before, his clothes were gone. On a
shelf were a few books, all of them detective stories; a torn magazine
lay on the floor, and on the table by the window was the missing tube of
glue, and an empty tin spool which had once held adhesive plaster. The
bed had not been made, and for all my suspicions it looked pathetic.
Whatever he had done, he had risen from it alive and well only the
morning before, and now he was dead. For somehow I had no doubt that it
was Holmes who lay on that slab in the morgue.

The bathroom showed only a soiled towel or two, and a worn-down shaving
brush.

I realized, however, as I wandered around that these quarters of
Holmes’s offered a peculiar advantage to anyone who, for any reason
whatever, was interested in what went on in the Crescent. Our garage was
set well back of the house, and from the windows on both sides he
commanded portions of the Lancaster and Dalton houses, and even a small
part of the Talbots’ and the Wellingtons’. From the rear he could look
out over No Man’s Land, and his front windows almost impudently stared
at our house.

To Holmes, then, the Daltons’ garage and the Lancaster woodshed were in
plain view, and even the rear end of the Talbots’ old stable where
George now kept his car. The trees which obscured us from each other did
little to shield us from him, and he was high enough to see easily over
our shrubberies.

He must have known a great deal about us, I thought; through Peggy he
could have known about the money under the bed, and it might be that he
had killed Emily Lancaster. But now he was dead himself. Who had killed
him? Was it some bootleggers’ quarrel? Or had he finally got away with
the gold and had there been, on that remote road, some quarrel over it?
Or had it been, after all, one of those accidents which no shrewdness
seems able to prevent?

I was still thinking as I went slowly back to the house. I reflected
uncomfortably that suspicion, having moved from house to house along the
Crescent, had finally and at last involved ours; and Doctor Armstrong,
coming in again around noon and reporting that he could make no more
money out of me as a patient, put that into words for me.

“That finishes the roll call, doesn’t it?” he said. “Everybody’s
involved now, and I doubt if even that smart young man of yours, Lou,
ever had anything like it.”

“He is smart, but he is not my young man, doctor.”

“Well, I hope to God he will be,” he said, tapping his fingers on his
bag as usual. “Too many virgins here now, and not only the unmarried
ones at that. Virginity is a state of mind, when all’s said and done.
But to get back to your young man; if Holmes was murdered it begins to
look like a syndicate, and I think myself he _was_.”

“Why a syndicate?”

“Well, take the average killer; the fellow who takes life the way he’d
take a dose of salts. He’s got his method and he sticks to it. The
hammer killer sticks to his hammer, the rod man to his gun, and the bag
murderer puts all his victims in sacks and leaves them around somewhere.
But what have we got here? An axe, a pistol, a poker and probably an
automobile. Let your criminologist make something out of that if he
can!”

Not that he decried criminology, he said. It was a new profession and a
hard one.

“Fellow’s got to be an expert in a lot of things,” he said. “Got to know
everything from ballistics and chemistry to bloodstains and
fingerprints; also photo-micrography, which is a big word you needn’t
bother about! But he’s got to know psychology too, and that’s where most
of them fall down. They forget that most of us are naturally aggressive,
and that enough repression of all the aggressive instincts drives us to
extreme violence the moment we get upset. Even to murder. Your
criminologist forgets that. He’s dedicated to pure fact.”

A conclusion which would have been borne out, had he known it, by what I
now know to have been Herbert Dean’s occupation that morning. He was, as
a matter of fact, bending over that white shirt of Holmes’s, examining
the tire marks under a microscope and then photographing and enlarging
them.

The result was a teletype from Headquarters ordering a search for a
small light truck, showing signs of having been driven through tar, and
of which the right front tire was of a certain designated make and
carried embedded in it a short nail with a broken head.

That was at noon on Thursday. Mother had not returned at lunch time, nor
by two o’clock, when she was due at the Lancasters’; so I telephoned to
Lydia Talbot that she had been called downtown, and Lydia agreed to
substitute for her. Somewhat later however she appeared at the house and
said that her sister-in-law had gone instead.

“Hester seems to think I’ve been butting in where I’m not wanted,” she
said. “And she’s so queer. Really, Louisa, I feel as though I’ve got to
get away from here. I’ve got to. My nerves are going. I told Hester this
morning and she’s furious. She says she’s given me a home for more than
twenty years, and that’s true. But a home isn’t a life. I’m not as young
as I used to be, and it’s like living in a jail. I don’t care where I
go. I have a little money, and I can still work. I work where I am for
that matter, only I don’t get paid for it.”

Her voice was more bitter than her words. All my life I had seen her
about, had known her as well as any woman of my age could know a woman
of fifty or so. Her thin figure plodding on its innumerable errands was
almost as familiar to me as my mother’s. But now she looked actually
desperate.

“I’m sure it hasn’t been easy,” I agreed.

“Easy! It’s been plain hell. As though John Talbot would ever come back
and bother her again, or want even to see her! The house locked and
barred as though—” She caught herself then, and I saw that her face was
twitching. “I’ll have to get away, Louisa,” she said. “Look at me. And
she won’t let me go.”

“Do you mean,” I said, “that she has locked herself away all these years
from—from your brother?”

“I didn’t say that,” she said, more calmly. “No. She knows he wouldn’t
do her any harm. He was the gentlest soul alive. I—” She lowered her
voice and looked about her. “Sometimes I worry about Hester, Louisa.
She’s not herself. She’s very queer sometimes; and lately I’ve thought
even Lizzie is not herself. Maybe I’m only nervous, but——”

She checked herself then and got up, dropping her gloves as she did so.

“I do hope you won’t say I’ve said all this, Louisa. I just had to talk
to somebody. I feel better now. And of course it’s all nonsense about my
going away. Where would I go?”

She hurried off through the August heat, and I went into the house. It
seemed strange to me that day to remember how, only a week ago, we were
living our complacent orderly lives; that on the surface at least we
were a contented group of householders, and that our only skeleton was
the occasional violent separations between Jim Wellington and Helen. The
Daltons too, but we were so accustomed to that situation, and it so
little affected our normal living that we hardly noticed it.

Now every house on the Crescent had been shown to have its story, for
the death of Holmes had involved even ours. Under those carefully tended
roofs, behind the polished windows with their clean draped curtains,
through all the fastidious ordering of our days, there had been
unhappiness and revolt. We had gone our polite and rather ceremonious
way while almost certainly somewhere among us there had been both hatred
and murderous fury.

I remember standing in the darkened hall and once again calling the
roll. It could not be; but when Annie came to say that our car had been
brought back and the driver wanted to see me in the garage I was gazing
fixedly through the door into the library, where my father’s portrait in
oil hangs above the mantel. I was not seeing it, however. I was seeing
instead that old crayon enlargement of George’s father which used to be
in the stable loft, and hearing Lydia’s flat voice:

“She knows he wouldn’t do her any harm. He was the gentlest soul alive.”

I went back to the garage, to find a man in rough clothes and a cap who
had raised the engine hood and seemed to be entirely engrossed in what
poor Holmes had always called the car’s innards.

“Seems all right, miss,” he said, and then looked up. It was Herbert
Dean, in a mechanic’s overalls and a dirty cap.

“Sorry to be so long, miss,” he went on. “I suppose, like most women,
you never notice your mileage?”

“Considering that we never go anywhere, why should I?”

“True. Too true!” he observed. “Of course that’s all over now,” he added
cryptically. “Still, if you had it might help. Or it might not. I have
an idea that if this baby could talk it would tell us a good bit about
poor Holmes, and his movements yesterday. But I can make a fair guess at
that.”

“Am I supposed to ask what you are guessing?”

He looked gratified, or pretended to.

“Certainly you are.” But he dropped his light manner then. “I’m
guessing,” he said slowly, “that at some time yesterday, probably toward
noon, this car drew up at a house not far from here, but outside the
Crescent; that a chauffeur in livery, Holmes, impressively delivered
either a note or a message—probably a note—to a woman who rents rooms;
and that in all probability this landlady was a tall thinnish woman who
was duly impressed by the whole outfit, and who received that message in
good faith. And—I am still guessing but I believe—that that same
Holmes went back last night with a light truck of some sort and took
away from that house one new trunk, which would be unduly heavy for its
size, and which may have required help; say, the landlady’s son, if she
had one. Most landladies have no husbands. That’s the reason they are
landladies.”

“Are you saying that the gold was in that trunk?”

“I am guessing, dear Lou of the nice quiet eyes. But I think it’s true.
And so that poor little shrimp lost his life.”

“Then he _was_ murdered for that money!”

“I haven’t said that. I’m not sure. But either by accident or design he
was killed, my darling. He was knocked on the head, and after that the
truck—it was almost certainly a truck—went over him.”

“It’s horrible.”

“Well, it’s queer. And some of the other things are queer. I can
understand putting his coat on to hide the tar marks on his shirt; the
truck had been through tar. It was smart, you see. In nine cases out of
ten he’d be picked up as a hit-and-run case, and that would be the end
of it. But why lay him out neatly on the road, and then anchor his
handkerchief on his chest with a stone, so that he would be sure to be
found?”

“Herbert,” I asked feverishly, “was Holmes killed by the same person who
killed Mrs. Lancaster and Emily?”

He shook his head.

“God knows,” he said. “It is all connected somehow, but I can tell you
this. So far as it is possible to be sure of anything, nobody left the
Crescent last night. But all I’m certain of this morning is that
somewhere, perhaps still on the road but more probably hidden somewhere
in a house, is the new trunk in which—brace yourself for this—the new
trunk in which Emily Lancaster hid the gold which she systematically
took at night from under her mother’s bed.”

He was getting ready to leave by that time, going by way of the path
across No Man’s Land to Euclid Street, and under Mary’s prying eyes I
could only stand and stare at him.

“I think you’ll find the car all right, miss,” he said, touching his
cap. Then he lowered his voice. “Oh, yes, I meant to tell you. That bit
of stem from your upper hall was poison ivy. Better be careful, if
you’re susceptible. The Commissioner is. I wish you could see him
today!” And he added, with his attractive smile: “Are you susceptible,
Lou? You are such a suppressed little person that I can’t be sure. But I
hope you are, for I’m coming to see you tonight.”




                                 XXXIII


He went away at once and I went into the house and up the stairs, dazed
and dizzy with this new knowledge, and wondering where it led us. It
should have explained so much, and yet it really explained so little.

How could I believe that Emily Lancaster was a thief? To accept that was
to revalue all the Crescent, to doubt every one of us, and to wonder
whether under our cloaks of dignified and careful living we were not all
frauds and hypocrites. To suspect Emily was to suspect everybody.

I stood in the upstairs hall and gazed about me. The door was open into
the guest room where Holmes had slept, and which still seemed to retain
his particular aroma of oil and grease. The sun poured in on the
radiator at the end of the hall where I had hidden that glove of Jim
Wellington’s, through the window from which I had watched Mrs. Dalton
making her frantic search of the house that same night. And from the
back window in the main hall I could see that room of Holmes’s, and his
patient experimentation with the book.

Holmes had known about the money, and that knowledge had killed him. But
how long had he known that Miss Emily was carrying it away? How had he
discovered where she was taking it? As I have said before, not only did
he occupy a strong strategic position over the garage, but he
undoubtedly used No Man’s Land for purposes of his own. Had he, like
George Talbot, found some of that dropped money? Or had he followed Miss
Emily for some unknown reason, discovered where she went, and then
formulated his plan?

I stood by that rear window and tried to think it out. There seemed,
with the plot he had apparently conceived, no actual reason for killing
Miss Emily. Whatever its details were, so far as I knew it could have
been carried out as well with Emily alive as if she were dead. And that
conclusion of mine was borne out only a few minutes later, while I still
stood at the window.

A woman was slowly crossing No Man’s Land from the direction of Euclid
Street; a tall thin woman, not unlike the Talbots’ Lizzie, and moving
toward the Lancaster house. She had a rolled newspaper in her hand, and
even from that distance I could see that she was both uncertain and
uneasy. I lost her when she reached the woodshed, but picked her up
again as, still moving with a certain unwillingness, she went up the
path toward the Lancasters’ rear porch.

There evidently Ellen turned her away. Mr. Lancaster was very low that
morning, and I dare say Ellen, who had been fond of him, was extremely
short with her. At all events the woman stood uncertain for a moment and
then reached a decision and moved toward our house.

All of this had interested me, and I went downstairs so as to meet her
before Mary sent her off. She seemed startled when I confronted her.

“Are you looking for somebody?” I asked.

“I was looking for Miss Lancaster, but the old gentleman is pretty bad.
She couldn’t see me.”

“Maybe I would do. I’m a great friend of Miss Margaret’s.”

She looked me up and down, with caution rather than suspicion. Then,
right there in the path, she opened up her newspaper.

What I had expected was the morning paper, with its report of the
finding of an unidentified man killed by a hit-and-run driver, and
followed by an excellent description of Holmes. But I was mistaken. What
she produced was an illustrated section of one of our newspapers; and
this she held out to me.

“I just saw this picture this morning,” she said. “I was lining a drawer
with the paper, and I saw it. Would you say this is Miss Emily
Lancaster, miss?”

I looked at the paper. It was a Sunday morning edition, and the picture
she referred to was one taken as the family had gone in to the inquest
on Saturday. It was a very clear picture. In it Margaret’s black veil
was down but Emily, emotionally unstrung, had raised her veil and was
apparently about to wipe her eyes. In so doing she had seen the
cameraman and with her handkerchief in her hand, had hesitated for a
fraction of a second. That had been enough, however; and the result was
an excellent picture of her.

I rolled up the paper and glanced toward our kitchen. Mary was watching
with interest from a window.

“Come into the house,” I said quickly. “It’s hot out here, and anyhow I
think you have something to tell me.”

“I have that,” was her reply, and she followed me docilely enough around
the building and into the library. Once inside I closed the doors.

“First of all I’ll answer your question. Yes, that is Miss Emily
Lancaster. I suppose you know she is not—living now?”

She nodded.

“But she didn’t call herself Lancaster when she rented a room from me,”
she said. “I’m sorry to speak ill of the dead, but if that’s Miss
Lancaster she told me her name was Merriam, and she said she was a
trained nurse. But that’s neither here nor there. What worries me is
about that trunk of hers. I don’t know that I’m responsible, but I’ve
got my living to make, and I don’t want any trouble.”

I reassured her as well as I could, and she told me the story.

On or around the first of April she had read an advertisement for a room
wanted by a trained nurse, and as she lived near the corner of Euclid
Street and Liberty Avenue, across from the library and only two blocks
from the General Hospital, she had answered it at once.

She was a newcomer in the vicinity and did not recognize the middle-aged
woman who called in reply. This woman had stated that she was a nurse
with what amounted to a permanent position with an elderly invalid, and
that she had only a little time now and then to herself.

“But she said,” went on Mrs. MacMullen, for that turned out to be her
name, “that she liked a place she could call home anyhow, even if she
only spent an hour or two a day in it, when she went to the library for
books or took a walk. She said it was the nearest she could have to a
home. And she gave Miss Emily Lancaster as a reference; said she had
nursed her mother at one time. Well, everyone around here knows about
the Lancasters, although nobody saw them much. It sounded all right, but
I did call up the house, and this Miss Emily answered herself. She gave
her quite a good reference. How was I to know it was herself all the
time, miss? And why did she want to play such a trick anyhow? It wasn’t
as though she was a young woman. You know what I mean.”

“No,” I said thoughtfully. “It was curious, of course. I think they did
have a nurse named Merriam once for a short time, but that’s long ago.”

The end of it was that Miss Merriam took the room, and according to Mrs.
MacMullen the arrangement went very well. Miss Emily, or Miss Merriam,
came in almost every other day. Usually she went first to the library,
and then to this room of hers. Once in a while she would stay two or
three hours, but mostly it was less. She had sent in a new wardrobe
trunk soon after she took the room, and she kept it not only locked, but
padlocked. Apparently this padlock arrangement did not belong to the
trunk, but had been added.

“I didn’t like that much,” the landlady admitted, “but women that age
are peculiar sometimes. I never looked in a roomer’s trunk in my life;
I’ve got other things to do. But she was peculiar in other ways too. I
had to do the room while she was in it. Not that she mussed it much—she
was very neat—but I could only send the vacuum when she was there. She
kept the key herself.”

Not once in that almost five months had she suspected that Miss Emily
was other than what she seemed, and it shows very clearly the almost
complete isolation of Miss Emily’s life that she could move about our
own neighborhood as she had and remain unrecognized. It was Margaret who
did the marketing and buying. Liberty Avenue knew her well. But Emily
Lancaster remained, in all that busy life which moved along Liberty
Avenue, a lonely and unknown figure, a stout middle-aged woman carrying
an armful of books to and from the public library.

Mrs. MacMullen had not finished, however.

“I did my best to please her,” she said, “and she seemed to like me well
enough. Then early this month she began to look tired and nervous, and
I’d hear her walking up and down the room when she came. She’d lock the
door and—well, she’d just keep moving like a woman who was too upset to
sit still. You know what I mean, miss.

“So I wasn’t so surprised as I might have been when one day about two
weeks ago she came to me and said she’d liked the room very much, but
that she might not keep it long. The old lady, her patient, was talking
about going on a cruise around the world and taking her along. I
remember she’d brought in a lot of steamer folders, and she read them
while I did the room. They’re there now, as a matter of fact. And that’s
why I let the trunk go.”

She came then to the events of the last few days. On the Thursday
morning of Mrs. Lancaster’s death, at somewhere around eleven o’clock,
“Miss Merriam” had come in in a worse state of nerves than usual. She
had been there the morning before, but only for a few minutes. This time
she stayed an hour, and Mrs. MacMullen said she could hear her walking
the floor again.

“Back and forth she went, and me wondering what it was all about. Then
she came out, and I asked her if there was anything wrong, or if her old
lady was worse. She just acted as though she didn’t hear me, and went
past me and on out like a crazy woman. Then she came right in again, and
said she’d have to give up the room in a day or two; that they were
going somewhere, she didn’t know where. But that she’d send for the
trunk later. And she paid me up to the end of the month. That’s the last
I ever saw of her, until I recognized this picture this morning.”

It was that afternoon that Mrs. Lancaster was murdered, and the whole
neighborhood thrown in a state of frenzy. Mrs. MacMullen was interested,
not only because of the crime, but because Miss Merriam had given Miss
Emily as a reference. The general belief was that a homicidal maniac was
loose, and along with a good many others the landlady inspected her
window locks, and in addition she had put a chain across her front door
the next morning.

“Some of my people didn’t like it,” she explained. “I put it on at nine
every night and after that they had to ring the bell. Their keys were no
good to them. But I did it to protect them as well as myself, and when
that killer got Miss Emily herself on Sunday night, they stopped
fussing.”

She still, she said, had no idea that Miss Emily and Miss Merriam were
the same woman. She was shocked nevertheless: “because only last spring
I’d talked to her over the telephone. It was as if I knew her, if you
see what I mean.”

But on Sunday night she had had real reason to be thankful for the
chain. It was about three o’clock in the morning and she was in the
lower hall.

“Miss Anderson on the second floor had a toothache, and I’d offered to
go down and heat some water for a hot-water bottle. I know my house
pretty well so I didn’t turn on a light—and I was in my slippers, and
they don’t make any noise.

“Well, I was down at the foot of the stairs when I heard somebody at the
front door fumbling with the lock. All my people were in, and they knew
about the chain anyhow. I was scared, but I stood still and watched, and
that door opened! It opened as far as the chain would let it. Then—I
couldn’t help it, I guess—I yelled, and it slammed shut again.”

“You didn’t see anybody?”

“No, miss. And I’d be glad if you kept it to yourself. I don’t want my
roomers leaving.”

I nodded absently, I’m afraid, for I was busy thinking. On Sunday night
Holmes was locked in our guest room, and he was still there when I
unlocked his door the next morning. Then it could hardly have been
Holmes at that door and thwarted by that chain. Then who? Mrs. MacMullen
was in no doubt, apparently.

“I guess I’d have yelled louder if I’d known Miss Merriam was Emily
Lancaster and that he’d killed her that very night,” she said, trying to
smile. “It’s easy to see what happened, Miss Hall, isn’t it? Whoever it
was, he killed her to get that key, and I can only thank God that my
chain held.”

But of course she still did not know Miss Merriam’s real identity, and
she only wondered why she had not come to her room since the Thursday
before.

“I thought maybe she’d gone away as she said,” she explained. “But that
seemed queer with her trunk still locked in that room of hers.”

And then, after this long preamble, she reached the trunk itself. It had
been taken away the night before, and the word had been brought at noon
by a liveried chauffeur with a limousine at the curb. Naturally she had
suspected nothing out of the way.

“Up the steps he came, as bold as brass, and he said to me that Miss
Merriam’s old lady was going out of town in a hurry, and that she’d send
for her trunk that night.

“‘And what about getting into the room for it?’ I said. ‘She’ll have to
send her key.’

“He said he would get the key, and that was all.” She had not been
surprised when he himself came for the trunk with a light truck. He had
a negro helper, and the two went up the stairs. He had the key right
enough, as she said; but the trunk was heavy and he himself was a small
man. It had stuck too at the turn of the stairs, and finally she herself
had gone out on the street, found a white man loitering on the pavement,
and brought him in.

“The three of them got the trunk out and into the truck,” she said, “and
that’s all I know, except that he paid the helpers off and drove away by
himself.”

She took a handkerchief out of her bag and wiped her face with it. I
could see that she was trembling.

“Well, that’s all, Miss Hall,” she said, getting slowly to her feet. “I
let him take the trunk. How was I to know that this Merriam woman was
Miss Lancaster, or that she was dead? I gave it to him, and the police
can believe it or not. I don’t know what was in it and I don’t care. Let
them get him and they’ll get it.”

“They’ll never get him, Mrs. MacMullen,” I said gravely. “I’m afraid he
is dead.”

And I was astounded to see her crumple up in a dead faint, on the floor
at my feet.

She came around before very long, after Mary over my protests had dashed
a tea cup of ice water in her face. She was dazed at first, gazing at us
all with blank eyes, but soon she oriented herself and tried to sit up.

“I’m sorry, miss,” she began. “I don’t know when I’ve done such a
thing.” Then memory came back and she closed her eyes and leaned back
heavily against my arm as I held her.

“Dead!” she said. “O my God! What will we do!”




                                 XXXIV


The remainder of that day, Thursday August the twenty-fifth, is a sort
of nightmare to remember.

I had notified the police of Mrs. MacMullen’s visit, and then followed
the usual long hours when nothing seemed to happen. Indeed when
everything was over and we knew that our killer would kill no more, I
was to hear Herbert Dean say that a big crime case was like a war: a few
dramatic moments and then hours and days of surface quiet and patient
underground digging.

So far the Crescent as a whole knew nothing of Holmes’s death. No boy
selling extras ever intruded on our sacred privacy, and both Mother and
I had been asked to let the police make the announcement when they were
ready. The result was an extremely peaceful if hot August afternoon,
with Eben once again systematically cutting the grass, and our
housemaids or parlormaids or butlers, as the case might be, quite
cheerfully doing the usual Thursday silver cleaning.

To them I dare say the crimes were over and the excitement ended.
Whatever they knew or suspected, the curtain was down and they were
ready to go about their business again. It had been exciting, but it was
not their play. They had been interested and terrified spectators, but
no more than that. The result was that for all our bars and locks, for
all our guards at night and the incessant clamor of the press for action
on the part of the police as to the Crescent Place murderer, there was a
definite relaxation of tension.

Mary and Annie might, and actually did, barricade themselves on the
third floor each night by putting a row of chairs on the staircase. But
I know now that in most of the Crescent houses the attack on me was
laid, either to a burglar after my grandmother’s silver in the cedar
room or to my having run head-on into an open door!

That was due to Mrs. Talbot who, coming in early on the morning after it
happened, had gone ponderously back to the guest wing and carefully
inspected it.

“That’s what happened,” she boomed. “This door was open and she ran into
it in the dark. My George did that once and had to have three stitches.
Who on earth would want to hurt Louisa?”

“Louisa didn’t carry the kitchen poker up with her,” Mother said.

“How d’you know? Whose fingerprints were on it? I don’t know anything to
hold a mark like a brass-handled poker.”

But the poker had borne no prints, it seemed; not even mine. Nor could
she account for the fact that even if I had run into a door, the bump
was on the top and toward the back of my head!

It was then to a Crescent still ignorant of this third tragedy and
quietly going about its business, that Mother returned rather late that
afternoon. Her mourning veil looked rather the worse for wear, but she
herself looked better than I had seen her look for a long time. She had,
it appeared, not only gone to the morgue. She had lunched alone downtown
for the first time in twenty years; a break in her routine so incredible
that I almost gasped.

“It was quite pleasant,” she said. “The chicken salad was much better
than Mary’s; I must speak to her about it.”

“It was Holmes, wasn’t it, mother?”

She nodded, taking off her hat.

“Yes, it was Holmes. Of course his uniform is missing. I shall have to
buy a new one. But he looked very natural, considering everything. Quite
natural. A hit-and-run driver, they say. But I cannot help thinking,
Louisa, that he was taken by a definite act of Providence; and Mr.
Sullivan quite agrees with me. You see—I suppose I can say this now—I
had suspected something quite different. If Holmes killed Emily
Lancaster——”

“We don’t know that it was Holmes, mother,” I said. “You may have been
right, you know. At least you ought to tell somebody what you suspected,
or whom. It can’t do any harm.”

But she refused with a gesture, and I could not induce her to tell me.
In her mind the case was settled, the mystery solved. She was certain
that he had killed Mrs. Lancaster before he took her on Thursday for her
drive, and that all the family had been wrong about the time; and she
was even more certain that on Sunday night he had escaped from a locked
room and shot Miss Emily.

This belief of hers was strengthened rather than weakened by the fact
that the Department had no record of Holmes’s fingerprints.

“You know, Louisa,” she said, “the police have said all along that the
murderer was a non-habitual criminal, and I dare say they’ll find that
he has that money out in that country place of his he used to talk
about. It is all perfectly obvious.”

Outside of that one matter, of the suspicion which was now definitely
and comfortably allayed, Mother was more garrulous that afternoon than I
had ever seen her. Mr. Sullivan had taken her to see the Police
Commissioner after they left the morgue, and she had been surprised to
find that he was what she called a gentleman.

“Quite good-looking,” she said. “That is, he would have been, but he was
suffering quite dreadfully from poison ivy. It seems he had got some on
his hands and then rubbed his face. He was severely swollen. And he has
very handsome offices. I suppose that is where our tax money goes. Then
the District Attorney dropped in and we had a very nice talk.”

From which I gathered that Mother, rather pleased and certainly without
suspecting it, had been that morning tactfully interrogated by the
police!

Considering Mother since, in the light of that secret she so carefully
preserved, I believe that she was as much a victim to the Crescent as
its defender. It had done to her what it had done to most of us: it had
definitely contracted our lives until it was a vital matter that in hot
weather our candles be placed on ice before using so that they would
burn evenly on our dinner tables; or that our doilies be rolled over
cones of old papers, and not folded.

Congresses might come and go, but it was still essential that our table
napkins be ironed on the wrong side and then polished on the right side;
that on certain dates our furs be brushed, sunned and put into domestic
storage, and that on certain other days the process be repeated in
reverse order.

Out in the world women were taking their places and living their own
lives, but our small rules of living and conduct ignored all that. Our
women servants still had to be in at ten and up at seven. Dependent
women relatives were still cared for, if somewhat grudgingly; as witness
Lydia Talbot. Mrs. Dalton, cutting flowers in her garden with her hands
and complexion protected against the sun, was simply following the
tradition; as was Mother when she served a glass of wine and a biscuit
to one of our rare callers. And Mrs. Talbot might lock herself in to her
heart’s content; it was her house and her affair.

Was it from this slavery of the unimportant that Emily Lancaster had
tried to escape? That was the problem I carried into my room that
afternoon, for if Emily had taken that money, it opened up something so
dreadful that I was afraid to face it.

Suppose that Mrs. Lancaster had roused some night or other to find Emily
drawing out that chest, or fumbling with its locks as it lay underneath
the bed? And suppose then that the invalid had asked for Jim, the next
day perhaps, to come and examine her hoard, to count it for her bag by
bag and coin for coin as it lay on the bed? Then what? Was it so hard to
suppose the rest? Hadn’t Lizzie Borden been accused of having killed her
stepmother with an axe? And hadn’t our own grocer’s daughter turned on
him a year ago and stabbed him in the neck with a knife, so that only
the proximity of the hospital and assistance had saved his life?

I do not know when I have put in as utterly wretched an hour. All that I
knew of Emily came back: the sacrifice of her life and of any real
chance for marriage, and the possibility of some furious inner rebellion
that had suddenly flared into desperate action. That was what Doctor
Armstrong had said: “—to extreme violence. Even to murder.”

For she could have done it. I saw that clearly. She had had that half
hour between three-thirty and four, for we had only her word that at
three-forty-five she had opened her mother’s door and found her still
asleep.

All of it, the plotting about the room on Liberty Avenue, the direct and
indirect purchasing of the weights, the conning of various steamship
folders, pointed to long and careful planning and the expectation of
escape. Then, with everything ready, she could not escape. The police
watched her. The house was under guard. Even her own nerves betrayed
her, for I had seen her myself in a state of utter collapse.

But I brought myself up with a jerk, for on Sunday night she herself had
been killed.

She had not expected to be killed. She had gone downstairs and eaten an
apple! Whatever guilt she may have felt, at least she apparently felt
secure. Had eaten an apple and then wandered out into the warm night
air. For all her complaints of someone trying to enter the house at
night before her mother’s death, now quite calmly she started out. There
were guards about, but no one saw or heard her.

What was she after, that Sunday night? The bird cage? Then what was in
it? Did she keep, in a seed cup or under the sliding bottom, the keys to
that hidden room of hers and to the Liberty Avenue house? That would
explain a great deal, but not all. Perhaps the key to the chest had been
there too, taken from her mother’s neck after the killing! They had
found it not far from her body.

But then who had taken the bird cage? Was it Holmes?

It was possible, I thought. Almost certainly on that Thursday he already
knew about the gold and where it was. But so far as he was concerned,
the killing of Mrs. Lancaster did not help him, but rather hindered his
plans. There was the chance of quick discovery that the money was gone,
and also that Miss Emily would break down and confess. Yet he had made
no immediate move to get the trunk. It was six days before he made that
final and fatal move of his.

I went back to Emily. Was it Holmes on that Saturday night after her
mother’s death, when someone had tried to enter Emily’s room from the
porch roof, and she had escaped to the Talbot house? But she had seemed
to know or suspect who the intruder was, or rather the intruders, for
she had said: “Hide me, George. Hide me somewhere. They’re after me.”

She had known then, or guessed, who it was. She knew she was in danger,
for all her locked bedroom door. Yet only the next night she had walked
that path toward the Talbots’, and been shot.

My mind went back to Friday. It was on Friday night over the telephone
that I had roused her from a heavy doped sleep with the word that there
was someone on the roof; a man, apparently searching it with great care
and some risk. Who was it, and what was he looking for? One thing was
certain: he was capable of quick action, for in the interval between the
ringing of the telephone bell and Margaret’s appearance in the cedar
room with her father’s revolver, he had not only escaped. He had closed
the trap door and replaced the ladder!

Perhaps I was oversuspicious as I looked back, but it did not ring
entirely true, that story of Margaret’s as she had told it to me on
Saturday morning. Why had this unknown, escaping somehow through a
darkened house, not only managed to do that, but also to replace the
trap and the ladder?

I looked out at the Lancaster house. It might have been possible to
climb from one of the third floor windows to the roof, but I doubted it.
Then again, Margaret had asked me not to speak about it. The more I
thought over that the stranger it seemed; unless at that time Margaret
suspected Emily of her mother’s murder.

Was the man on the roof by any chance searching for the missing money?
Or perhaps for the bloodstained garments of the killer for which the
police had looked without result? They had to be somewhere, those
clothes. There had been no chance for Emily, providing she was guilty,
to have got rid of them.

But my mind kept going about in a circle, for after all Miss Emily
herself had been killed only two nights later, and now even Holmes was
gone.

I tried putting some of this down. I even tried repeating the chronology
of that previous Thursday, for it was Mrs. Lancaster’s murder, I knew,
that had started the entire chain. Yet that day had varied little from
any other day, up to the time of the death. It was entirely usual for
Lydia Talbot to carry Mrs. Lancaster some delicacy for her tray, and
Lydia had left at half past two. At three-thirty Mr. Lancaster and Mrs.
Talbot had gone; he had returned but under oath had stated that he had
gone directly out again. At three-forty-five Emily reported her mother
asleep, and at four o’clock Jim Wellington had found her dead.

When in all that closely checked time had the murderer, with or without
a key to the house, been able to enter, kill and depart without
discovery? And whom had Mother suspected of being both capable and able
to do such a thing?

I sat back and thought about that; about that day when Mother, having
read in the paper that the gold was missing, had instantly sent for Mrs.
Talbot to apologize to her! Apology comes hard to Mother, and this
apology seemed to have been for something she had thought rather than
said. So far as I knew she had said nothing.

What had she thought? That Mrs. Talbot, after being a good friend and a
kindly neighbor for years, had somehow reëntered that house after Mr.
Lancaster went for his walk, and killed a woman who was not only
helpless, but who was related to her by marriage? She could have done
it. It came to me almost with a shock that she could have done it
easily.

Nobody had checked on her movements after she left the house. Even Miss
Lydia was out and did not return until around five o’clock. As for
motive, why demand one of a woman who was as definitely eccentric as she
was? Or there might be one; a part of that hidden story to which Mother
had now and then referred, something out of the past of which I had
never heard, some ancient enmity carried secretly for years.

I sat back in my chair and tried to face that possibility. It was not
credible, of course; but it is never credible that people willfully
commit savage and brutal crimes. And as I sat there I realized that
there was more than one point to support my suspicion. The shooting of
Emily with what was apparently George Talbot’s revolver was only one of
them.

I had remembered suddenly that there was a vine of poison ivy near the
Talbot stable.

I sat then with my notes before me, staring incredulously out into the
Lancasters’ sunny garden. Eben was cutting the grass again, and save for
the notes on my lap it might have been the same Thursday afternoon the
week before, when the Lancasters’ side door had opened, and Miss Emily
had run out screaming and fallen flat on the newly-cut lawn.

As I looked I saw Jennie come out the side door and make a gesture to
Eben. He stopped his mower at once, and something in the two attitudes
told me that we had had another death; that old Mr. Lancaster had drawn
his last uneasy breath.




                                  XXXV


The police in the meantime were subjecting Mrs. MacMullen to a severe
grilling. Herbert Dean was there also, and it is his account which I am
using.

They had found her in bed in a small hot back bedroom on an upper floor.
She looked ill, he said. She had deep circles under her eyes, and she
had evidently been crying. So pitiful an object was she that they tried
being gentle with her; but at that she grew defiant and they had finally
to change their tactics.

It was after that that she admitted she had known Holmes well, but she
maintained stoutly that she had never suspected the Merriam woman’s
identity, or that the stolen money might have been in the trunk.

“Why should I?” she demanded. “And if it comes to that, why would I go
to that Hall girl this morning and tell her all I did, if I’d had any
idea of it? So far as I can see, all I had to do was to keep my mouth
shut, and I was all right.”

“But you knew him pretty well?”

“Oh, I knew him all right. Not so well as you may think, but one of my
daughters brought him here once or twice. I don’t know that I’d ever
mentioned the Merriam woman to him at all; or her trunk either.”

“How did you explain his bringing you that word about it, if you knew he
was the Halls’ driver?”

“I guess I might as well tell you,” she said, looking around at that
ring of determined faces. “He’d been bootlegging a bit. Not much, but
now and then, and so he knew a good many people. Nice people, too. When
he walked up the steps and said Miss Merriam wanted her trunk that night
it didn’t surprise me. I just thought she’d seen him somewhere and asked
him to bring the message. But I told him he’d have to bring the key to
her door. She had a special lock on it.”

“And he brought the key?”

“He must have. He got in. I didn’t go upstairs to see.”

They got little further of any importance from her. She blamed a
bootlegging gang for his death, and she insisted over and over that she
had had no suspicion of what might lie in the trunk, although she
admitted buying a certain number of boxes of dress weights for Miss
Emily, who said her patient used them for potting flowers and weighting
vases. Now and then too a heavy parcel arrived by express addressed to
Miss Merriam, and was placed in the hall outside her door until she
appeared.

“Once she said it was books, and I remember I said they’d be heavy
reading, the way it took even to lift it. And another time she said
she’d been having some old flat silver replated, and she showed me a
spoon. But I wasn’t suspicious. If I watched all the queer things my
roomers do I’d go crazy.”

“Yet you had read about the substitution of the dress weights for the
gold, hadn’t you?”

“How on earth was I to connect this Lucy Merriam with the Lancaster
family? Everybody knew they didn’t have a nurse.”

“This paper now, with the photograph. You were interested enough in
these murders to put up a chain on your front door, and on the kitchen
door too. But you never saw that picture until this morning. Is that
your statement?”

“See here,” she said, raising herself in bed. “I’m not under arrest, am
I? If I am, I’ll get a lawyer. If I’m not, you’ll take what I’m telling
you. I’ve told you about that picture. Why should I have gone over to
Crescent Place this morning, if I had anything to hide?”

And here I believe the Inspector smiled grimly.

“Well, you see, Mrs. MacMullen, the trunk was already gone, wasn’t it?
And the money!”

It was onto this scene that without the slightest warning a new figure
projected itself. The bedroom door opened and a girl rushed into the
room, a pretty girl in a uniform with a thin summer coat over it, and
with a face the color of chalk.

She took in the picture instantly, and with a quick gesture she wrenched
the door open again. But she was not quick enough, for Herbert Dean
caught it and slammed it shut. But I gather that he was gentle with her
when he spoke.

“I see you’ve heard, Peggy.”

“Then it’s true?”

“I’m sorry. It is true.”

She stood there leaning against the door and looking at nobody.

“Dead!” she said. “He’s dead. My husband’s dead, mother; and I’m going
to have a baby!”

They were all most uncomfortable. Peggy was hysterical and beyond
questioning, and some instinct of delicacy got them out of the room.
They were on the whole well impressed by the mother, and whether Peggy
was or was not implicated in the theft of the trunk was unimportant just
then.

“We were on a murder case,” the Inspector said later, “and Holmes hadn’t
killed Mrs. Lancaster. He was a bootlegger and a thief, but he wasn’t a
killer. So we let her have a little time to herself.”

They found an overworked servant somewhere, and she showed them Miss
Merriam’s room. It was still unlocked, and so far as evidence went it
yielded nothing whatever. It was a front room on the second floor, and
its strategic value lay in its outlook, according to the police.

“She could be pretty sure no one she knew was anywhere around before she
started out. And that was important.”

The public library was just across the street.

The room itself contained little of a personal character: a few simple
toilet articles on the dresser, books on a table, a pathetic and
half-eaten box of candy and some writing paper, pen and ink on a small
desk in a corner, about completed the list. The desk blotter had been
used, but nothing on it was legible, although Herbert Dean took it with
him when they left.

The only thing of any value they had extracted from Peggy was the
location of Holmes’s little place in the country. This, as they had
expected, was out the North Road and some six miles beyond where the
body had been found; and it was to this property that they went at once,
Inspector Briggs, Mr. Sullivan, a plain-clothes man whose name I never
heard and Herbert Dean, still carefully holding and protecting that desk
blotter.

“Be careful, Smith!” the Inspector admonished the uniformed driver. “Mr.
Dean back here has got the whole story of these crimes in his lap. Spill
him and you lose your job!”

There was no difficulty whatever about finding the place, which they
reached rather late in the afternoon. Reticent as Holmes had always been
about it, there was no attempt to disguise his ownership of the
property, for on the narrow dirt road leading in from the highway a mail
box on a post was marked W. Holmes in plain black letters.

The car turned in there and the officers got out at the house.

It was a neat and not unattractive cottage of the bungalow type, built
of wood and with a small detached garage, and surrounded by a dozen
acres or so of land which had at one time apparently been a market
garden. Now it lay uncared for and weed-grown in the August sun, and
after a glance around the officers turned their attention to the
bungalow.

It was locked; locked so securely that even Herbert Dean, who was
according to the Inspector one of the best pick-locks out of prison, was
unable to effect a peaceable entry. They broke a window finally, and one
after the other they crawled inside.

The place was untidy but comfortable. There was a living room of sorts,
a bedroom, a kitchen and a dining room which had clearly been devoted to
other purposes. The Inspector glanced around him and sniffed.

“Packed it here,” he said. “Where’s the cellar, Sullivan?”

“Right under the house, I imagine,” said Sullivan cheerfully. “They
mostly are.”

Three of the men went down the cellar stairs finally, to find there what
they had expected; a small still, or “cooker” as the Inspector called
it, a vast array of bottles and so on. But Herbert Dean did not go with
them. He was making a slow and painstaking inspection of the living room
and the bedroom, which in the end yielded him nothing except a half
dozen books—entirely of the crime variety—a box of labels of an
excellent English whisky, and a notebook containing the names of some of
our best citizens.

He did better in the kitchen, however. Holmes had evidently done
everything in his little country place but eat there, and the stove
revealed itself as a dumping place for everything from broken glass to
old newspapers. When the others emerged from the cellar they found him
on the dirty kitchen floor, with a bed sheet before him and on it a
miscellaneous assortment of old razor blades, defective corks, cigar
ends and what looked like a book until it was opened, and then revealed
itself into the type of receptacle sold in a good many stores and
generally used for cigarettes.

“See you’re happy, Dean!” the Inspector said, rather grimly.

Herbert grinned and held up the box.

“Here’s the thing I told you about, anyhow,” he said. “Made it himself
purely as an experiment; but rather a neat job at that. It would be
interesting to know just how long he watched those library trips of
Emily Lancaster’s before he began to suspect, wouldn’t it?”

The men examined the box. It was an ordinary book of fair size, with the
center of each page neatly cut out but leaving an inch or less of
margin. These margins had then been carefully glued together, and the
interior strongly reinforced with a lining of adhesive tape. The result,
which I now have, is a substantial box which looks like a rather
well-worn book.

“Simple, isn’t it?” Herbert said. “She carried two or three books each
time, but the duplicate of this one went back and forth pretty
regularly. They’d be fastened together probably, with a strap or a piece
of cord. Cord probably, for I imagine it broke once, on the path to
Euclid Street.”

The Inspector was less humorous about the box than he had been about the
blotter. He took it and examined it carefully.

“He made it?” he said. “How d’you know this isn’t the box Emily
Lancaster used, herself?”

“Because Miss Louisa Hall saw him making it. As a matter of fact, he
made it last Saturday night.”

The Inspector looked annoyed.

“Look here, Dean,” he said. “I’ll admit you’re a valuable man. Maybe I
don’t always see eye to eye with you on this case, but I’m glad to have
you. Just the same, I’m damned if I’ll have you holding out on me, and
that’s what you’re doing.”

“You’d have jailed Holmes in a minute if you’d got anything on him,
Inspector. And I needed him. If he knew how that gold and currency had
got out of the house, he might know where it went. I was watching him
pretty closely, myself.”

“Oh yeah? And you lost him, didn’t you?”

“I did. I had a man of my own on him; but he lost him Wednesday morning,
at the cemetery.”

“And because you lost him, he’s going there himself!”

But Herbert shook his head.

“I’m guilty on one count, Inspector,” he said, “but not on the other.
None of us can allow for accident, and I think Holmes’s death was an
accident. It wasn’t in the original program, anyhow. Maybe there was a
fight. Maybe he’d been put off the truck and ran in front of it to stop
it. But he died because a car went over his chest, and it’s pretty hard
to run down and kill an active man just because you want to do it!”




                                 XXXVI


They were still arguing over that, I believe, the Inspector truculent
and rather flushed, when Sullivan quietly came in from an examination of
the garage and reported that Holmes’s uniform was in it, and a small
light truck.

“Haven’t gone over it,” he said, “but it looks like the one we’re
after.”

It was, they discovered. There was the nail in the tire, and the
unmistakable evidence that it had been driven through a freshly tarred
road. Careful examination of seat and body revealed nothing else,
however, although some fresh scratches in the rear looked as though it
had recently carried something heavy and unwieldy.

There was no sign of the trunk.

It was almost six o’clock by that time but still broad daylight, and so
they set out to cover the dozen acres or so as well as they could. For
now of course it was at least possible that Holmes had reached his
garage safely, and had been killed on his way back into town. In that
case he might have emptied the trunk, buried or hidden its contents and
been on his way back with it to dispose of it in any one of a dozen
ways. Even to return it to the MacMullen house.

They divided, the Inspector going back into the cottage and the three
men searching the ground outside. It was the plain-clothes man who found
the hole, and called the others to look at it.

The spot was well chosen. A bush had been lifted and carefully heeled
in, about three hundred feet from the house; and beside it lay the top
sod, cut from an area about two feet by two. This space had then been
dug out to a depth of about thirty inches, and an empty box with a
wooden lid placed inside it.

The work was recent; about twenty-four hours old. The bush showed no
signs of wilting, and under the surface the pile of soil was still
moist. In the Inspector’s words:

“It was all ready, you see. All he had to do was to fill the box out of
the trunk, replant his bush, replace his sod, water the lot, and then
sit tight until the excitement died down. Only it didn’t work that way.”

For that hole in the earth told its own story to the men who stood
around it. Holmes had been killed on his way out with the gold. He had
never reached his little place in the country with it, and somewhere
safely hidden away or perhaps traveling respectably tagged on a train
going nobody knew where, was Miss Emily Lancaster’s trunk with its
valuable contents.

I have written in detail of this expedition and its result; for it was
the search for that trunk and its ultimate discovery which revealed the
last and most shocking of our murders. But there was another discovery
made that late afternoon which helped to prove Mrs. MacMullen innocent
of any connivance as to the trunk itself.

Herbert Dean, going through the pockets of Holmes’s uniform, found a
letter in it addressed to that lady. It was in a fair imitation of Miss
Emily Lancaster’s hand, and it read:

“Dear Mrs. MacMullen: I am sorry not to see you again, but we are
leaving in a hurry. This is my authority to give my trunk to the bearer,
who will also have the key to my room.” Signed. “Lucy Merriam.”

“All set,” as the Inspector says. “Note ready in case the landlady
refused without it. And of course he had a pretty good general idea of
the lock on that door, or maybe he had made an impression of it. He had
plenty of chances.”

It was too late when at last they got back to the city to do more than
teletype a general description of the trunk, and to send operatives to
the various railroad stations. Mrs. MacMullen, again closely questioned,
could give no details by which it could be identified, and had not even
noticed from what store it had been delivered. Peggy was in danger of
losing her child and a woman from the neighborhood and a doctor were
with her, so that she could not be questioned; Mr. Lancaster had died
that afternoon and any information from Margaret as to where her sister
might have gone for a trunk was not obtainable, for she was shut in her
room and reported to be in collapse.

The four men ate some dinner and decided to call it a day. And that
night I had a brief but rather comforting talk with Herbert Dean.
Comforting in spite of the fact that he started it with a warning.
Mother was over at the Lancasters’, for although Lydia Talbot always
presided over our funerary ceremonies, it was and is one of our
traditions that in cases of grief the family must on no account be left
alone with it; and I understood from Mary that all the available
Crescent, including Jim Wellington, was also there. I had begged off
with a headache myself, which was real enough, and I was sitting on the
porch in the dark when I heard his light active footsteps on the street
and recognized them.

At first I thought he meant to go on by, and I ran out along the walk
and called to him. It was then that he read me my lecture, right there
on the path.

“I’ve been criminally remiss with you, Lou,” he said severely. “I’ve
warned you not to wander around alone, but apparently that isn’t enough.
Among the numbers of things I don’t know about this case is why you were
attacked the other night; or why anybody wanted to get into this house
at all. Nevertheless, you were attacked and you might have been killed.
If it were not for the fact that you have a lot of hair—very lovely
hair, Lou!—well, it doesn’t stand thinking about. Anyhow, we’ve got to
keep you safe.”

He laughed a little, as he led me back to the porch. “I seem to be
increasingly interested in keeping you safe, Lou. Odd, isn’t it? That
you should walk into my life at the instant I was being blown out of the
Wellington kitchen! Still, I dare say many a romance has started less
romantically.”

He did not pursue that, however, although I dare say I colored.

“I’ve had a wretched afternoon,” I told him. “You’ve left me feeling
that I can’t trust anybody; not even Jim Wellington.”

“Well, that’s something gained,” he said rather drily. “And you are
quite right. Don’t trust anybody around here for a while anyhow. Don’t
trust them until you can see the whites of their eyes, and then run like
hell!”

“Herbert,” I said, “you must tell me about Miss Emily. Somehow I can’t
bear it.”

And then he became grave, almost tender.

“Who are we to judge her?” he asked. “She took it; we can take that for
granted. What we don’t yet know is why. She may simply have wanted it
for herself. After all, she had given up her life to that old woman. She
may have been in inner rebellion for years; then suddenly she saw her
chance to escape. Almost fifty and liable to the emotional upsets of
that age in women, Lou my dear. She might have been in an abnormal state
of mind. Such things happen.

“Or there’s another possible explanation. She may have felt that too
many people knew about that gold, and so she had to protect it. That is
simply another guess. There’s a third one, but less likely; that she and
another member of the family, say, Mr. Lancaster, developed the plan
together to protect the money. I don’t believe it, myself. And I don’t
think that this third person was Margaret, for I have an idea that
Margaret all along has suspected Emily of just what she did; and maybe
more than she did.”

“You mean that Margaret thinks Emily killed their mother? Oh, _no_!” I
wailed. “She never did. How could she think such a thing?”

He reached over in the darkness and took my hand.

“Listen, Lou,” he said. “I agree with you, but try to get Margaret’s
point of view. You see, there are degrees even in crime. There’s
cold-blooded calculated murder; and there’s the picture of Emily
Lancaster, not allowed to marry, getting on in years and heavy and
tired, and that old woman nagging her until she’ll do anything, even
kill, to escape her. Margaret has had her share of it, too, so she’s
afraid it was Emily. That’s all. And in twenty years or so, if you stay
where you are, you’ll possibly understand that fear of Margaret’s
yourself.”

And he added:

“The terrible domination of the old and helpless, Lou. Think of it!”

I did think, to my own shame. I realized that along with the rest of us
I had watched Emily Lancaster for years without ever thinking about her
at all; had taken it for granted that she asked no more of life than her
three meals a day, her broken sleep at night, and the servitude from
which her only escape was into the books she read so avidly.

But he was entirely convinced, for more reasons than he gave me that
night, that Emily Lancaster had never murdered her mother. It was more
to reassure me than anything else that he explained that afternoon as he
saw it.

“Just take the question of time, for instance,” he said. “The killing
didn’t take long, but remember that she was fully dressed at
three-thirty, and differently but fully dressed again at four. And she
was a slow-moving woman. Even if she had stripped off her clothing and
entered that room entirely naked—and that’s been considered—she would
have had to go back and bathe and clean the tub. And the police examined
every tub in the house, including the outlets. The soap, too. Then
there’s that story of Jim’s, that when he went up she was talking to her
canary. If that was acting, for whose benefit was it? She may have known
he was in the house. She could hardly have known he was upstairs in the
hall.”

My mind was too confused to work properly, but I was trying to think as
best I could.

“Still, if she knew Jim was coming that afternoon to get out the gold,
wouldn’t she be pretty desperate?”

“But did she know? It was Margaret who did the telephoning. Emily was
out at the library at the time, getting some books. But wasn’t she
prepared even for discovery, if it came before she could get away? I
think she was. I’m not so sure about the window screen, but that flower
pot was overturned; and they’re not easy to overturn. I’ve tried it. How
about those stories of someone on the porch roof at night, before the
murder? Weren’t they pure camouflage for her theft?—if it is theft to
take what will be yours some day anyhow, and what you may feel you have
earned a dozen times.”

“Still, Herbert,” I objected, “there was no reason for her running out
of the house last Saturday night, unless there really was someone there.
Or she thought so.”

“That’s different,” he said almost roughly, and released my hand. “There
was someone there that night, and if I knew who it was I’d have this
case settled and out of the way.”

After that he told me some of the steps by which he and the police had
reached certain conclusions. He held out much I have already told here,
but as a résumé it is not without interest. He had recaptured my hand,
and I felt that he was amused at my feeble effort to free it.

“I’m holding it out of sheer gratitude, Lou darling. Nothing sentimental
about it, so let it alone. You see, you set me on the track of that
money.”

“_I_ did?”

“Certainly you did. You told me about Holmes and his book. Do you
remember? It was like an answer to prayer. You see, my dear, that money
wasn’t taken all at once. It wasn’t taken even in three or four
packages, or whatever they might be. What had been going on was
evidently what has been going on in some of our banks, a sort of slow
seepage, or so it looked. That meant somebody who had pretty steady
access to the chest, so the first thing the police went after was the
servants, particularly the upstairs maid, Peggy. But it was obvious from
the beginning that in the twenty or so afternoons and ten Sundays that
they were out of the house, none of these women could have carried off
the gold. Add an evening out each week for good measure, and you’ll see
that, all other things being equal—chances at the chest and so on—any
one of them would have had to carry each time several pounds of gold
coins. It simply couldn’t be done, for there was plenty of evidence that
these women carried out only small hand-bags. That is, unless some one
of them had an outside accomplice.

“We considered that, but the two older women seemed to have no outside
life at all, and Peggy’s mother we found to be a widow named MacMullen
who kept a highly respectable lodging house on Liberty Avenue. Yes, we
knew about Mrs. MacMullen before she came to you. Then you came along
with your story of Holmes and his book, and suddenly I saw a light.”

“I wish I did,” I said despondently.

“Well, you see, from the first it was clear that Holmes occupied a
highly strategic position in that room and bath of his. Also that he had
plenty of time to use it. And Holmes wasn’t tearing leaves out of a
book. He was cutting them, one or two at a time. In other words, Holmes
was making an experiment with a book, some glue and a spool of adhesive
tape.”

“I see,” I said slowly. “He was making a box out of a book.”

“Precisely. His experiment proved that, given a fair-sized book, it
could be made to hold a good bit of flat gold money or currency. And
Holmes was no angel. He was on the track of something, and that
something was a fortune to him. Here was Miss Emily, making her almost
daily trips to the library, and carrying two or more books each time,
probably tied together.

“He had access to the MacMullen house, too, through Peggy; he almost
certainly knew that Miss Merriam was Emily and the papers had told him
that the gold had not been found. Then _he_ saw a great light, and I’m
sadly afraid, Lou, that he followed it to his death.”

He told me then about the cottage, and about the conclusion he had come
to as to how Holmes had met his end.

“There were one or two odd things about the way he was found,” he added
thoughtfully. “They’re rather hard to explain. In the first place, he
was neatly laid out on that road, and his white handkerchief was placed
on his chest and anchored there with a stone; as if to insure that the
body would be seen. Then again, the autopsy showed nothing that would
indicate that he had been struck down and then deliberately run over. If
it didn’t rather strain my imagination, I’d say he’d been run over by
accident, and that by his own truck!”

But he added, after a pause:

“We have to remember this, of course, little Lady Lou; and maybe it will
make you more careful. Holmes, tragic and puzzling as he is, only enters
the picture after that first murder. In a sense, he was only an
interruption. He interfered with a carefully laid plan; much as did
Margaret Lancaster the other morning.”

“Margaret interfered?” I asked. “How did she interfere?”

“She sent away the bird cage,” he said, rising and smiling down at me.
“And the cage had Emily’s keys in it. Do you see? Holmes didn’t need
those keys; not enough at least to kill her to get them. But somebody
else did. When we know who that is—!”

Across at the Lancasters’ the front door had opened, and a broad beam of
light gleamed out on the trees and the walk. He got up quickly.

“Just one question, Lou,” he said, “and we’ll have to be quick. After
Mrs. Lancaster’s murder somebody burned what might have been a
photograph, on very heavy board; one of the old types of mountings. Or
it might have been something else, pasteboard anyhow with a beveled edge
and gilded. Does that mean anything to you? I think, but I’m not sure,
that it came out of the Lancaster house.”

There were voices on the porch across by that time, and I had to think
quickly.

“They had quantities of old pictures,” I said. “Some were framed, but I
haven’t missed any. Of course I haven’t been there much since. And
there’s the old photograph album, of course. Margaret gave it to
Mother.”

“Margaret gave it to her,” he said slowly. “When? Since her mother’s
death?”

“Yes. It’s upstairs now somewhere. I think it has never been unwrapped.”

“Unwrapped? You mean it was tied up when it came? Lou, I’ve got to have
that album, and I’ve got to have it soon. I’ll be back here at twelve
o’clock, and don’t open the door until you’ve turned on the porch light
and seen who it is. Is that a promise?”

I agreed, and to my stunned amazement he bent down and kissed me lightly
on the lips.

“That’s for being a good girl,” he said, and a moment later he had
disappeared down the street.

It was not until he had gone that I remembered that I had not asked
about the poison ivy.




                                 XXXVII


The neighbors were leaving the Lancaster house now. I could hear their
low decorous voices and the subdued sound of their feet on the steps of
the porch, and it was almost a shock to hear that even Mrs. Talbot had
ceased to boom. At the street pavement they separated into two groups,
the Talbots turning right, the others coming toward me; Jim, the Daltons
and Mother. The men in their dark clothes, the women in black, as they
approached their faces looked like four disembodied and slightly swaying
white balloons; and this illusion was increased by the fact that they
were not talking at all. As they came closer I saw that Jim was slightly
ahead, and that with his hands thrust deep into his pockets he was
apparently lost in thought.

At the foot of our walk he stopped and faced them, like a man who has
made a decision of some sort.

“Look here,” he said. “I suppose there’s no use expecting an honest
answer, but isn’t there a chance that _he_ is mixed up in this somehow?”

“Nobody has heard of him for years,” Bryan Dalton said. “In any case,
since you’ve brought the matter up, why the Lancasters? He was fond of
Emily, even if he hated the old lady.”

“He had plenty of reason to detest her, I gather! What’s the use of all
this secrecy anyhow?” Jim demanded. “I didn’t know it myself until a day
or two ago—I dug it out of the Talbots’ Lizzie, if you want to
know—and George Talbot doesn’t know it yet. If that isn’t like this
Crescent, I don’t know what is. I’ve kept quiet on George’s account but
I’m damned if I care to go on. That story’s got to be told. If he was
crazy then he’s crazy now.”

“He was just about as crazy as I am,” Bryan Dalton said shortly.

“Would you know him if you saw him? Any of you?” Jim persisted.

They were all certain that they would, but Jim himself, it appeared, had
never seen this unnamed individual at all; at least not since he was a
small child. He was impatient and irritable, as I could tell by his
voice.

“He may be right here among us,” he insisted. “He may be your Joseph,
Dalton! Or he may be this new butler of ours. He’s a queer egg. If he’s
a butler then I’m a housemaid!”

“Joseph has been with us for years,” Bryan Dalton said stiffly.

“And John Talbot’s been missing for years too!” Jim persisted.

I sat up suddenly in my chair. So it was John Talbot they were talking
about, the man of the crayon portrait in the stable loft, and of whom
Lydia only that very morning had said that he was the gentlest soul
alive. And at one time he had been considered a lunatic, but not by
everybody!

Mother was speaking, in her clear high-bred voice.

“You are being absurd, Jim,” she said. “For years all of us have tried
to keep that unfortunate story from George. Do you want George to learn
it? Or the police?”

“The police! My God, why shouldn’t they know? It’s their business to
know. What sort of a conspiracy of silence is this, anyhow? If John
Talbot liked Emily, how do you know she didn’t let him into the house
last Thursday? She might have thought he was sane, and then he got out
of hand; and then later on he killed her too. Are you going to ignore a
thing like that to conceal an old scandal or whatever it was?”

“Listen, Jim,” Laura Dalton said. “If any one of us really thought John
Talbot capable of such a thing, we would tell it. We simply don’t,
that’s all. That other was a crime of passion. She’d ruined his life and
cut him off from his family.”

“Someone,” said Bryan Dalton, “might say to my wife that I do not regard
that as an unmixed evil!”

But Jim was not listening.

“Nevertheless,” he persisted, “he shot the woman he had eloped with, and
was shut up with the criminal insane, wasn’t he? Is he there now? Does
anybody know?” And when he received no answer I saw him under the street
light make a furious and hopeless gesture.

“There you are!” he said. “And I’m not to tell the police! Well, I’m
saying here and now that I intend to tell the police, and you’re all
going to take it and like it. By God, I believe the whole lot of you
would let me go to the chair, if it came to that, rather than admit that
a man tried under another name in another state for murder was a Talbot
of Crescent Place!”

He turned angrily and swung away toward his house, leaving them staring
after him.

Mother went into the house without seeing me, and she asked no questions
when I followed her into the library. She looked tired and all she said
was that Margaret Lancaster was taking her stepfather’s death very well,
but that she looked rather dreadful.

“I wouldn’t say anything about this, Louisa,” she told me, “but she is
uneasy. You see, she cannot find her father’s revolver. He always kept
it in an upper bureau drawer, but it is not there now. She has searched
everywhere for it.”

I was startled.

“When did she miss it?”

“Last night, I think. It’s really odd, for only the nurse and the doctor
went into that room. And Margaret herself, of course.”

She was more disturbed than she cared to admit; and it was very late
before at last I got her settled into bed, with the usual vases on her
window sills and her hall door locked.

“You _will_ lock your door carefully, Louisa?”

“I always do. Mother, where is the album you brought from the
Lancasters’ the other night? I’d like to look at it.”

She looked surprised, but not at all startled.

“The album?” she said. “I did put it somewhere. Yes, I took it up to the
third floor. Surely you don’t want it tonight?”

“I just wanted to know where it is,” I said evasively, and went out.

It was almost midnight before through the connecting bathroom I heard
the click of her lamp as she switched it off. Even after that she turned
restlessly for some time, and I was almost in despair when at last her
deep and regular breathing told me that she slept. Then at last I was
free, and the next half hour stands out in my memory as one of a general
misery leading gradually to sheer terror.

As I may or may not have said, in both the Lancaster house and our own
only one staircase leads to the third floor. This takes off from the
rear hall on the second floor, and it was on this staircase that Mary
and Annie had established their absurd barricade. The first thing I had
to do therefore was to move the chairs, which seemed just then to have
as many legs as a centipede and the viciousness of all inanimate things
in the dark at night. Then, having at last aligned them in the second
floor hall and climbed the staircase as silently as possible, on the top
landing I stepped without warning into a pan of cold water, evidently
also a part of the defense system, and then and there in the dark I
almost sat down and wept.

Time was short, however, and with that complete loss of self-respect
which comes of wet feet and bedraggled skirts, I at last reached the
cedar room and having closed the door turned on the light. Like the same
room at the Lancasters’ it too had a trapdoor to the roof, and I looked
at it nervously. It was closed and bolted, however, and with increasing
courage I began my search.

It was not difficult. The Crescent not only wraps what it stores, but
labels each parcel; and thus I found myself confronting packages of all
sorts ranging from one marked “L’s first party dress” to more recent
ones tagged modestly as “woolen undergarments, medium weight.” Of the
album, wrapped or unwrapped, there was not a trace, and my wrist watch
told me that it was already five minutes past twelve.

There was only one other place possible, and that was my former
schoolroom over the old part of the house; Mother used it now and then
as a sort of extra storeroom for odds and ends, and I went there with
rather a crawling of the spine. Early impressions stay with us, I find,
and although it was twenty years since it had happened, I could still
remember the sheer horror of the night when, the governess out of the
room and the dumb-waiter bell ringing, I had heard my supper tray coming
up and had seen instead a dreadful black face making horrible grimaces
at me from the shaft.

It had caused quite a stir in the neighborhood, for I had fainted flat
on the floor; and even the discovery that it had only been “Georgie”
Talbot on the top of the slide had not entirely removed the horror of
that moment. Indeed, the first glance I took after I had switched on a
light was toward the shaft. But the sliding door was closed, and thus
reassured I set about my search.

The album was there, still wrapped as it had been, and lying on my
scarred old schoolroom table. I picked it up and stood for a moment
looking about the room. I was a child again, being told to be a little
lady. I was an adolescent girl, curious about a thousand things which no
one thought I ought to know. And I was a young woman, slipping up there
to write my first and almost my last love letter, and crying my heart
out because if I married I would leave a still grieving mother alone.

But mostly I was a child, left alone in a room where there was a horror;
a sliding door which at any time might open again and show a grinning
monster. Then, just as I had put out the light and was working my way in
the dark toward the hall, I heard something fumbling at that door again.

I could not believe it. I could feel the very hair on my head fairly
rising, but still I did not believe it. Nor could I move. There were
weights in my feet, and my legs were like the legs of a sleeper with
nightmare, who must escape and cannot move them. And still that dreadful
fumbling went on.

So familiar was I with the door to the slide that I knew to the instant
when there was space for fingers to catch the edge of it, and I could
follow inch by inch its slow movement upward. Infinitely stealthy, all
of it; as though time were nothing and only caution mattered. Then at
last the power came back into my legs. I ran as I have never run before,
crashed into the pan at the top of the stairs and accompanied by it and
in a deluge of water fell the entire length of them and brought up in a
sitting position in the hall below; without breath left in me even to
scream.




                                XXXVIII


The next sound I heard was Mary’s voice, spoken through a crack in her
door above: “The saints preserve us! Who is it?”

“It’s all right, Mary,” I gasped. “I’m sorry, but it’s me again! I fell
over your pan.”

“Are you hurt, miss?”

“No, I think not. Mary, there’s someone in the dumb-waiter shaft. I’ve
just heard them.”

But with that I heard her give a low wail, followed instantly by the
closing and bolting of her door. There was plainly no help from that
direction, and I dare say with the instinct of the woman who saved the
parrot and left her baby during a fire I picked up the album and flew
down to the front porch and Herbert Dean.

Fortunately, Mother had not wakened.

The search which followed, while revealing no intruder in the house,
clearly proved that I had been correct about the shaft, and Herbert Dean
showed a capacity for sheer rage which surprised me.

“Damn them all!” he said. “I’ve told them this thing isn’t over, but
they take the guards off! I’ll have that Inspector’s hide for this, and
the Commissioner’s too.” Which was followed by a bit of rather stronger
language than I care to repeat.

The search revealed certain facts. One of these was that as our basement
is shut off from the main floor by a strong and well-locked door, it had
not been considered necessary to watch the windows with any great care.
One of them in fact was wide open, and had been so in all probability
since Mary had raised it earlier in the week.

Curiously enough, the use of the abandoned old dumb-waiter as a means of
access to the house had never occurred to any of us. It went to the
basement, since before Mr. Lancaster and my father had done over the two
houses the kitchen had been there. But it was years since it had been
used. Once Mother had found Annie dropping soiled linen down the shaft,
and had sternly forbidden it as a slovenly habit. After that the shaft
door into the laundry had been closed and nailed.

It was neither nailed nor closed that night when Herbert Dean reached
it, with a revolver in his hand and me at his heels. It was standing
wide open, like the window, and examination showed that the old wood had
rotted around the nails and must have given way easily.

He looked exasperated as he examined it.

“Why the devil didn’t you tell me this was here?” he demanded. “It’s a
port of entry for anybody who wants to get into this house. Whoever hit
you the other night probably came in this way, for I’d had an eye on the
kitchen door; and you trapped them at the foot of the back stairs.
Didn’t anyone remember it?”

“Do you imagine we deliberately concealed it?”

He laughed a little then, and getting up on a chair he examined the top
of the slide itself with meticulous care.

“Does the Crescent housekeeping extend to things like this?” he
inquired. “That is, is the top of this thing kept dusted? Or was it
actually forgotten?”

“I imagine no one has seen it at all for five years, or dusted the top
of it for fifteen.”

“Somebody has. It’s been cleaned lately. Carefully wiped. Very canny,
this unknown of ours. Taking no chances. I suppose the ropes are all
right? I’m going up on it anyhow; but not until I’ve taken you up myself
and shut you into your room and heard you lock your door.”

A program which he would have carried out with entire success had he not
on emerging from the schoolroom in the dark bumped head-on into Annie,
who had finally determined to fill the pan again and was on her way to
replace it.

The resulting uproar was one to waken the dead, and although in the
midst of it Herbert Dean managed to escape, to this day Annie insists
that an enormous creature that night rushed at her in our upper hall,
made an effort to strangle her, and only fled when she doused him with a
pan of cold water. This last was true enough, for Herbert spent most of
the remainder of that chilly August night on guard outside the house,
drenched to the skin and furiously annoyed, and clutching a large and
heavy old photograph album by which he seemed to set considerable store.

Not that it was really as simple as all that, for Mother was up by that
time and on hearing Annie’s story had at once called the telephone
central and demanded the police. Herbert Dean’s insistence on my silence
was put to a heavy premium after they arrived, but I kept my own council
and let Annie tell her story. The result was a thorough searching of the
house, followed by the discovery of Herbert himself, with the album
neatly tucked under his arm, hidden away in the limousine and obviously
not courting discovery.

It was a cruising radio car which had come, and the men did not know
him. So for the second time within a few days Herbert found himself
under arrest. It took a half hour at the station house to get himself
identified and released, and before that happened an officer who had
seen him taken into the Lancaster house only a few nights before stopped
and stared into the room where he was being detained.

“Where did you get _him_ again?” he asked the sergeant.

“Over on Crescent Place. Hiding in a garage.”

“And what’s that he’s got?”

“Old photograph album. Holding onto it like nobody’s business, too.”

The officer eyed Herbert with cold suspicion.

“He’s crazy as a loon,” he said. “Last time I saw him he was after an
empty bird cage. Told somebody after he was grabbed that he was a dickey
bird of some sort, and that he wanted the cage so he’d have a place to
sit down in!”

We knew nothing of all this that night, and I did not see Herbert again
until later that day. Mother was too disturbed to sleep again, however.
The officers had discovered the open window in the basement and the
chair we had left by the dumb-waiter shaft. One of them had even taken
the trip to the schoolroom on it and had been stuck between two floors
and only rescued by herculean efforts. But the whole result was that
Mother’s carefully built case against Holmes seemed to have collapsed,
and that when I finally went to sleep at dawn she was still up and
gazing thoughtfully out of her window.

That day the intensive search for the missing trunk went on. The store
where it had been bought was located and a careful description and
photographs obtained. Both were sent out to all precincts and detective
squads, and to all state troopers, as well as to railways, hotels and
even storage warehouses, with an enlargement of the special lock Emily
Lancaster had ordered to supplement the regular one. By telephone,
short-wave radio and teletype the search was taken up, and by afternoon
the press had the photographs and ran them that night as “Mysterious
Trunk Wanted by Police in Crescent Place Murders.”

One paper offered a reward for its discovery, and within a day or two
the others followed suit. But nothing happened, and when in the course
of time it was discovered, as everyone knows who reads the papers, it
was too late. As the Inspector says:

“What threw everybody off was those foreign labels. It was a smart
trick, that. Pretty well plastered with them, it was; everything from
steamer tags to hotels in Europe. It made the same difference that a
beard and a pair of false eyebrows would make on you, Miss Hall!”

But all they learned that first day of the search, Friday August the
twenty-sixth, was the identity of the colored man who had helped to
carry the trunk down to the waiting truck. He had not noticed the white
helper, save that he had a short beard and was not young; and he had an
alibi to bear out his statement that he had remained behind when the
truck drove off. He added something to that, however. The white helper
had gone along.

He had waited until Holmes was in the driving seat, and had then got
onto the truck and curled up in the rear. He had supposed it was by
prearrangement, but Holmes might not have realized that he was there.

“I dunno, boss,” he said. “This heah white man, he jes’ got in over the
tail. Engine makin’ a mighty lot o’ noise jes’ then, so mebbe the other
fellah didn’ know. This white man, las’ I saw of him he was sittin’ flat
behin’ the trunk.”

But that Friday, beginning with two o’clock in the afternoon, stands out
in all the history of the case as its one most significant day. Not only
because it was that night that Lydia Talbot disappeared, but because at
two o’clock that afternoon Margaret Lancaster got into a taxicab and,
driving to the District Attorney’s office, proceeded of her own free
will to make a statement so surprising that even the stenographic notes
were in places almost unintelligible.

No one of us saw her go, or had any idea of her intention. She left Miss
Lydia in the house, got into the taxicab and was driven downtown alone;
and I have often wondered since what must have been her thoughts as,
bolt upright in that cab and as carefully dressed as usual, she went
determinedly to expose at last what she had fought so hard to conceal.

She looked exhausted and old, Herbert Dean says, as she went in. She
threw back her heavy black veil, took a seat across the wide desk from
the District Attorney, and simply said:

“I have come to tell the real story of my mother’s murder, and of my
sister’s death following it. I suppose you will want a stenographer.”

The District Attorney could hardly believe what he heard. He stared at
her.

“You are—you want to make a signed statement?”

“I do. It cannot hurt anybody now.”

They kept her waiting for a time. It was dangerous, for they knew she
might weaken at any moment, and for all her quiet manner it was clear to
everybody that she was close to actual physical collapse. But there
would be points to check and questions to ask; and for this they needed
the Inspector and Mr. Sullivan. The Commissioner had taken his ivy
poisoning home to bed, but Herbert was already there.

Someone in that fifteen-minute interval asked her if she needed some
spirits of ammonia, but she shook her head.

“I am quite all right,” she said.

That was the only time she spoke until, with everything ready, she asked
if she should start. The District Attorney said “Please,” and she drew a
long breath.

“As you all know,” she said, “I am Margaret Lancaster. And I am here to
say that to the best of my knowledge and belief, my sister while
mentally deranged killed my mother; and that last Sunday night, out of
fear that she would do further harm, my stepfather shot and killed my
sister.




                                 XXXIX


“I shall try to be as brief as possible, and I am telling what I know
because you already suspect my stepfather. I have learned from the nurse
that you have his pistol; that she gave it to you. But what you cannot
know is the reason he had for killing my sister. While he could not tell
me, I am convinced that he considered her unbalanced mentally at times,
and dangerous.

“I had noticed nothing different in my sister Emily until last spring.
At that time Mother began to worry about her personal fortune, and she
finally decided to have some of it turned into gold, this gold to be
kept in a chest under her bed. None of us approved, and Emily least of
all, but Mother was determined.

“She arranged with her nephew, James Wellington, to make this exchange
for her, and this he did under protest. I need not go into that. You
know all that already.

“It was in April that I began to notice a change in Emily. She came in
one day very white, and went into my mother’s room. There they had an
argument of some sort, and my mother was very angry after it. From that
time on I felt that the relationship between them had changed. Emily was
tearful at times, and once I found her in the storeroom with an old
family photograph album. She was crying over it. Later I saw it in my
mother’s room. She kept it in the top drawer of the chest beside her
bed.

“I am telling you this because the album caused me so much anxiety
later, although I do not yet understand just why. I have wondered—but I
must get on with this statement.

“Emily was my mother’s nurse, and was in and out of her room at all
hours. It was early in the summer that I began to wonder about the gold
under Mother’s bed. Emily had been the soul of honesty, but late one
night I heard her coming out of Mother’s room, and I opened the door.
She heard me and she looked very much alarmed. There was a low light in
the hall but I could see her plainly, and she was carrying something
that looked like one of the canvas bags from the chest. When I knocked
at her door she was some time in letting me in, and then she looked
frightened.

“I did not know what to do. I went to Mother’s room, but she had had her
usual opiate and was sleeping soundly. The chest was closed and locked.

“After that I watched Emily as well as I could. I examined her room over
and over while she was out, but I could find nothing. She hardly ever
carried a purse, and the only places she went were to the library and to
a woman on Liberty Avenue across from the library who she said was dying
of a cancer. I even followed her once or twice, but she went nowhere
else.

“If she had not been in such a state of terror I would have given up
then. There was no gold or money in her room, and she evidently had no
box in any bank. But she was so queer that at last I went to Bryan
Dalton. He laughed at me at first, but he too saw the change in her and
at last we agreed to keep a watch and see if she left the house at
night.

“We established a sort of post office in our woodshed, and he would drop
a note there. Usually it said: ‘All quiet.’ Sometimes he said she had
come downstairs at night apparently for something to eat. But she never
left the house. This will explain why Mr. Dalton has been involved in
the case. He had nothing whatever to do with it.

“It was about the first of this month that my father became suspicious.
Emily had professed to believe that someone was trying to get into the
house at night, and that they were after the money under Mother’s bed.
On the night of August first Father was sleepless and anxious—he had
never approved of the hoarding anyhow, considering it dangerous as well
as unpatriotic. That night he heard a sound from Mother’s room, and he
went in.

“Emily was on her knees beside the bed, and she screamed when Father
spoke to her. That wakened Mother, but Emily said she was after a
sleeping tablet for herself and that it had dropped under the bed.

“I knew nothing of this until my father told me later on, after Mother’s
death. When Emily had gone Father managed to examine the chest, but it
was locked as usual and so he went back to bed. He asked Mother after
that to have the chest opened and the money recounted, but that annoyed
her and he had to let it go for the time. It was more than two weeks
before he finally decided to have it done, with or without her consent.
Then, on the morning of Thursday August the eighteenth, he told me
exactly what he had seen and I foolishly told him what I knew.

“While Emily was out at the library I telephoned to Jim Wellington to
come at four that afternoon, for what Father called an audit. Father had
not told Mother, and it was to tell her that he came back after he had
started for his walk that afternoon. He changed his mind, however, after
he was in the house. She was asleep, and he decided to wait until Jim
was there.

“I do not yet know how Emily learned about the audit, and the early
afternoon was as you know it. Lydia Talbot brought Mother some things
for her lunch, but was too late with them. Her sister-in-law, Mrs. John
Talbot, left with Father at half past three. It was my afternoon out,
but I had arranged with Father not to go and was in my room.

“At three-thirty—or a little later—I saw Bryan Dalton walking from his
garage toward our woodshed. Our servants could not see him from the
lower floor, but I saw him from my window. Instead of going inside and
leaving a report, he took up a position where he could watch the house,
and that puzzled me. I thought at first he was merely waiting for the
result of the audit and I paid no attention; but at last he saw me and
waved to me to come down.

“I had turned on my shower, but I began to dress, and then I heard Emily
screaming and as soon as I could get into my dressing gown and slippers
I ran out. What I thought was that Jim had come earlier than usual, that
the theft had been discovered, and that Emily was having an attack of
hysteria. But you know what I found.”

Here I believe she stopped for the first time. Someone offered her a
glass of water, but she refused it and after steadying her voice she
went on.

“I need not go into all that. You know it as well as I do. For one
thing, Bryan Dalton had thought as I did about Emily’s screams and her
fainting attack, and when he saw Louisa Hall bending over her he did not
go to her. Instead he came up to our kitchen porch and waited there
outside. It was locked, of course. The servants were upstairs in the
hall by that time, and nobody saw him.

“But I kept one thing from you then, and I am telling it now because I
understand that you have certain suspicions about Bryan Dalton. When I
went into that room after Emily had rushed downstairs, I found the album
I have spoken of open on the bed, and the two pages were covered with
fingerprints in—in blood. Fresh blood.

“Emily was still screaming, and I had only a second or two. Mother’s
sewing scissors were on her bureau, and I cut them both out. I still had
them in my hand when I called down the stairs to tell the servants; I
hid them inside a radiator cover in the side hall. Later on, when I went
back to get Father a glass of wine, I gave them to Bryan Dalton. They
were stiff, but he put them inside his overalls; and as soon as he
dared, at my request, he burned both the overalls and the pages of the
album, out in No Man’s Land. He was afraid there would be traces of
blood on the overalls.

“My father believed as I did. We knew that every door into the house was
locked, and neither one of us believed that Emily was normal. All the
Talbots have a queer streak in them.

“You all know what followed. My father—he was really my stepfather—was
convinced that Emily had done it in a fit of insanity. What is more she
had worn a glove of his, one of a pair Jim Wellington had left, and
which Father had found lying about. He kept them in the housemaid’s
closet on the second floor, and used them when he blackened his boots.
But after the—after she had finished in Mother’s room she didn’t even
try to hide it. She threw it down into our lower hall, and when I came
back into the house with her after she had pretended to faint outside, I
picked it up almost under the nose of a policeman.

“I hid it behind the pillows of the library couch when I fixed it for
her, and later I got it out of the house. But Father saw in that glove
an attempt to place the crime on him. He never spoke to Emily again
after I told him about it.

“I tried to shake this conviction of his, to save a dreadful scandal.
But he was certain that she had done it, and I myself have never doubted
it. She herself knew that he suspected her, especially after that first
night when both of us found him in the cedar room. You see, the police
had found no stained clothing, and he thought perhaps she had hidden
what she wore on the roof. He had been up there, anyhow, and Emily knew
as well as I did why.

“The next three days were too horrible to talk about. Doctor Armstrong
was keeping Emily under opiates, but Father would not even go into her
room. What he thought until Sunday night was that she was definitely
dangerous; not to him, but to almost anybody. And on Sunday night things
reached a climax.

“He was never able to tell me, but I believe he heard me call to Emily
and knew that she was going downstairs. When she left the house he must
have followed her, and when she went first to the Daltons’ and got a
spade—for that is what she did—it meant only one thing to him. That
was that she had buried Mother’s money and then killed her.

“That meant more than insanity. It meant that it was a crime to conceal
a crime, and he must have gone mad himself. He went back into the house,
got his revolver, followed her to the Talbots’ and shot her. I know
that, for I found his revolver on top of his dresser the next morning,
and it had been fired.

“I am not guessing about this. The next night while George Talbot was
asleep in our library—Monday night—I found his automatic on the floor,
and I remembered something he had told me last spring at a picnic. That
was that the barrels of two similar automatics can be exchanged, and
that an innocent man could in this manner be charged with a crime he had
never committed; since every barrel left its peculiar marks on a bullet.

“I make no defense. I knew there could be no case against George. He had
no reason whatever for killing my sister. And my father was dying. He
and I had been very close, just as my mother cared more for Emily than
for me. I changed the barrels that night, wiped both the guns and put my
father’s back where it belonged. I am sorry now, but at least he died in
peace.”

That was the end of the official statement, and I shall eliminate the
questions which followed it, with the exception of one, and that was
asked by Herbert Dean.

“I would like to go back to that Thursday afternoon, Miss Lancaster.
Just why had Bryan Dalton waited by the woodshed? We knew that he had,
but he has refused to give a reason.”

“He wanted to see me.”

“Is that all?”

She hesitated, but he was relentless now. He walked forward and
confronted her.

“Shall I tell you what Bryan Dalton saw, Miss Lancaster?”

“But he’s wrong!” she said wildly. “I swear that he is wrong.”

“Shall I tell you what Bryan Dalton saw that afternoon from somewhere
near his garage, and what brought him over to watch your house? Or will
you tell us?”

She said nothing, and he continued.

“What he thought he saw was an axe, moving slowly up the back wall of
the Lancaster house. But that garage of his is some distance away, and
anyhow the thing was incredible. He walked over and looked into the
woodshed, and the axe was missing; but he is not a quick thinker, and he
was puzzled more than anything else.

“It was not until Emily ran out shrieking that he began to understand.
Even then he would not believe it. He went to the house, but the kitchen
door was locked and the servants upstairs. After that I imagine he went
to the ground underneath the window, and he thought he saw marks showing
that the axe had lain there hidden in the planting for some time. All
day and maybe part of the night. That’s true, isn’t it?”

“But he’s wrong, I tell you,” she said, more calmly. “I swear that he is
wrong.”

“What was he to think?” Herbert said, still sternly. “Here was your
sister, in spotless white, still in the side garden. She had not killed
her mother. And when you came with those fingerprints from the album to
be destroyed—! Of course he thought it was your window.”

“It was not. I swear that.”

“No,” he said quietly. “I know it was not. But you should be grateful to
a very gallant gentleman, Miss Lancaster, who thinks to this moment that
you had hidden that axe and later on fastened a cord to it; and that at
or about three-thirty that afternoon you drew it up and through the
window into your bedroom.”

“And you don’t think so?” she asked.

“I don’t think so. He simply mistook the window. The axe went into the
housemaid’s closet next door.”

Somewhat later they let her go. They were of two minds about her, that
group in the handsome office which as Mother would have said represented
a considerable outlay of taxpayers’ money. They compromised on having
her followed, but she went directly home.

There was a long argument after her departure.

“You can see how it was,” the Inspector said when it was all over. “Here
was Dean; I’d watched him work and I had a good bit of confidence in
him. But the D. A. and the Commissioner when I called him up were
hell-bent on holding her.

“What they figured was that the affair of Holmes and the money was out.
You know what I mean. Emily had hidden the money, Holmes was carrying it
off and somebody else had got wise and took it from him. But this
Margaret Lancaster not only knew it was gone. She knew, according to
them, where it had gone to. All this story Emily had made up about a
woman with a cancer probably hadn’t fooled her at all.

“You’ve got to remember this, too. Margaret’s shower was running. She
could have done the thing mother-naked—if you’ll excuse me, Miss
Hall—and then gone back and had a shower and been as clean as a baby.
Only mistake she made, as they saw it, was that she sent away the bird
cage, and that had the keys to the MacMullen house and the trunk in it.
Then later on she followed Emily when she went to get them, and killed
her with her father’s gun.

“Unnatural? Sure, but the whole thing looked unnatural, didn’t it? She’d
changed the barrels of those guns, and it was what you might call an
open question whether she did that to save him or to save herself.

“Then again, when they got Dalton back that afternoon after she had gone
home Dean turned out to be right. He believed she did it, was sure it
was her window that axe went into. He admitted he might be mistaken, but
that’s what he thought. She was about frantic when she gave him that
stuff to burn. At first he thought that was natural enough, seeing that
she was so sure Emily had done it. Later on he got to thinking—about
Emily’s white dress and Margaret taking a bath and so on, and he wasn’t
so sure.”




                                   XL


It was that evening that Lydia Talbot disappeared.

None of us at that time knew about Margaret Lancaster’s visit to the
District Attorney’s office, and the afternoon was the usual afternoon on
the Crescent when a normal death has taken place among us.

We called up our various florists and ordered flowers according to our
taste and means, we pressed or ordered pressed the black clothes we kept
for such occasions, and from behind our immaculate window curtains we
watched the cars of various old friends and city dignitaries drive up,
leave cards with messages of sympathy on them, and drive away again.

Lydia Talbot had as usual taken over the duties of hostess, and stood
gravely in the lower hall. To those of us who went in she gave the last
details with a certain gusto, and she was talking to me while
instructing the mortician as to the moving of the parlor furniture so as
to leave room for the casket.

“I understand that it was really quite peaceful at the end, Louisa. It’s
very sad, but of course after all he wasn’t a young man. ‘Over there,
_over there_!’ she startled me by adding. ‘Put the piano there, I told
you that before.’”

She darted into the parlor in her rather rusty black dress, and I do not
think she even saw me when I left.

That was at five o’clock. Margaret must have been back at that time, but
none of us saw her return and officially she was still prostrated in her
bed, with the nurse in attendance.

Save for the discovery of the bird cage that afternoon, I can remember
nothing of any consequence. Both our servants were jumpy, which was
natural, and Annie’s story of the man on the third floor now included a
glittering knife in his hand, although how she could have seen it in the
darkness seems rather unusual. Mother fortunately had been able finally
to lay the whole disturbance to hysteria, and had not missed the album;
and the trunk was still undiscovered, as was the identity of the white
man who had helped to get it out of the MacMullen house.

Peggy was still there, very ill after losing her child; and a careful
inventory of the roomers in the MacMullen house had resulted in nothing.
All of them were women with one exception, and this was the pianist at a
local theater, who had been on duty all evening of the night the trunk
was taken.

The discovery of the bird cage was valueless. The gimlet-eyed man with
Daniels’ cart had gone and Daniels himself was back on the job that day.
It was on my way back from the Lancasters’ that I encountered him. He
looked white and drawn, and I stopped.

“I’m glad you are back,” I said. “You haven’t been sick, I hope?”

“Yes, miss. I haven’t been myself. I see they’ve had another death next
door.”

“Yes. But this at least was natural.”

“Well, maybe, miss. Although there’s such a thing as being killed by
troubles. Still, as Shakespeare says: ‘what’s gone and what’s past help
should be past grief.’ I meant to tell you, miss; I think there’s a bird
cage belonging to Miss Emily Lancaster over on Euclid Street. I’ve seen
it hanging in her window many a time. But it isn’t the same bird. It
doesn’t sing any.”

I still wonder why he told me that. Was Daniels himself suspicious of
the truth at that time? I think not. It sounded like and probably was
purely a piece of information, passed on in case the cage was wanted
again. Nevertheless I telephoned the fact to Inspector Briggs, Herbert
Dean being somewhere unknown, and they got the cage that night. But it
revealed nothing, nor had the family which had it any information.

One of their children had found it lying abandoned in No Man’s Land some
days before and had brought it home. The housewife had simply scrubbed
it thoroughly, furnished it with a new bird, and thought no more of it.

If it had borne any fingerprints they were certainly gone.

It was Mother who brought the first news about Lydia Talbot. She had
relieved her to go home for dinner at half past seven, and she had not
come back when Mother returned, visibly annoyed, at a quarter to ten.

“Really,” she said, “it is too annoying of Lydia. She said positively
that she would come back as soon as she had eaten her dinner and steamed
a crêpe veil for Margaret.”

“I’ll go over and find out, if you like,” I offered. “She may be sick.”

But Mother, who had insisted on Annie as an escort both to and from the
Lancaster house, refused to let me go.

“The nurse is there,” she said. “And it’s too late for anyone to call
now anyhow.”

I was puzzled about Miss Lydia, but not alarmed. As I may have said, it
is our custom in times of death to regard the body as a sort of
neighborhood trust, and to separate the family from it with the same
firm kindliness as that with which we separate the family from the
world. Also we guard over and watch it during the daylight and evening
hours, although in recent years we have ceased sitting up with it at
night. Little by little this duty toward our dead has been passed to the
spinsters of the Crescent, as being presumably free of domestic
obligations, marital or otherwise; and for years Lydia Talbot had been
the high priestess of our funeral rites.

She had enjoyed these brief hours of importance, and I was slightly
uneasy after Mother had gone up to bed. I tried to get the Talbot house
by telephone, but evidently someone had left a receiver off and I could
not do it.

It must then have been nearly eleven when I went out onto our front
porch to look across at the Talbots’, and to wonder if I had the courage
to go over and see if everything was all right. To my astonishment I
found George on the walk, and at first I thought he held a revolver in
his hand. It turned out to be a flashlight, however, for he switched it
onto my face.

“What is it, George? What’s wrong?”

“Nothing. At least I hope not. But I thought I’d take a look around. You
see we can’t locate Aunt Lydia. I went to the Lancasters’ just now to
get her, and she hasn’t been there since dinner. I’ve been along the
Crescent. She isn’t at Jim’s or the Daltons’, and your house was dark,
so I knew she wasn’t there. I—well, I just thought I’d look around. The
way things have been going here——!”

“When did she leave the house, George?”

“About a quarter to nine, and it’s eleven now. She hadn’t a hat or
anything,” he added. “I haven’t told Mother, but—well, where could she
go, like that? All she had was a small box with a veil in it. I believe
she’d repaired it for Margaret Lancaster.”

“You’re sure of that?”

“I saw her out myself. I suppose it’s all right. She’s perfectly capable
of taking care of herself, but where could she go? She wasn’t even
wearing a hat.”

“We’d better get a policeman,” I said. “And we can look around, anyhow.”

I dare say I sounded worried, for he looked at me quickly.

“You don’t really think it’s serious, do you? Great heavens, Lou, who
would want to hurt her? She isn’t particularly pleasant or agreeable,
but people don’t—well, they don’t kill because they don’t _like_
somebody.”

It was not difficult to find an officer around the Crescent during all
of this period, and so we picked one up near the gate and took him with
us. He was frankly skeptical, although polite enough, when George
explained to him.

“It was dark when she started,” he said, “and I wanted to go with her,
but she didn’t want me, and said so. She’s been rather more crabbed than
usual this last day or so, and I didn’t insist. But I waited until I
couldn’t see her any more. She had no hat on and she carried the flat
box with the veil under her arm.”

“She hadn’t said she might go elsewhere?”

“No. Where else could she go?”

“Well,” the officer said reasonably, “she might have gone to a movie.
Lots of women go without hats these summer nights. She might have
changed her mind later on. I wouldn’t get excited yet. There’s a movie
house on Liberty Avenue, isn’t there?”

There was, of course, and both George and I knew that Miss Lydia often
went there. But it would have been difficult to explain to the policeman
that on occasions of death in the Crescent we do not go to the movies,
or that Miss Lydia was the high priestess of our funeral rites and
therefore far removed from such diversions.

“She didn’t go to the movies,” George said stubbornly, and let it go at
that.

The three of us turned and went slowly along the street. The officer had
got out his flashlight, a powerful one, and was throwing it along the
grass inside the curb, and then into the shrubbery on our left; but
without result until we were almost exactly halfway to the Lancasters’.
Then he swooped down suddenly and picking up an object from the bushes
held it out.

“This the box?” he said.

“It looks like it. What on earth——”

George took the box and stared at it. It was slightly broken at a corner
of the lid, but otherwise unharmed. Inside, when he opened it, lay
Margaret Lancaster’s black veil, and George’s face was as pale as his
chronic sunburn would permit when he looked at it.

“I can’t go back and tell Mother,” he was saying. “It would about finish
her.”

The officer himself looked grave. He wandered about over the grass, and
at last he stooped and picked up something else. He brought it to us in
the palm of his hand, and turned the flashlight on it.

“Don’t know what it is,” he said. “Maybe been there a long time. It was
kind of trampled into the ground. Either of you ever see it before?”

We stared down at it, and then at each other. Lying there under the lamp
was the butterfly head of Lydia Talbot’s hatpin. I can still remember
George’s dazed expression.

“It’s hers, all right,” he said. “But listen, Lou. She went out without
a hat!”

The general alarm was raised at midnight, and for once in many years the
Talbot house was unlocked and unbolted, and blazing with lights.
Inspector Briggs, Mr. Sullivan and two plain-clothes men had inspected
it inch by inch, but they had found nothing. Lizzie and Mrs. Talbot,
examining Miss Lydia’s room, while the police looked on, were certain
that nothing was missing except what she had worn that night; a rusty
black silk dress, a black mohair petticoat, and undergarments, and her
usual black shoes and stockings.

On a stand near the window still stood the electric iron with which she
had pressed Margaret Lancaster’s veil.

Lizzie was as calm as usual; a tall thin figure of a woman, not unlike
Miss Lydia herself. Mrs. Talbot, however, was profoundly shaken. She
could hold nothing, not even the glass of wine George got her, and her
voice was a mere echo of its usual boom.

“Her habits?” she said. “She had none, except going to the movies. As to
being kidnapped for a ransom, who’s to pay it? She hadn’t a penny, and I
haven’t much more. Not since this depression set in.”

“You don’t think it might be a case of loss of memory?”

“She hadn’t any memory to lose.”

“Now,” said the Inspector, “you have no reason to believe that she had
any enemies, I suppose?”

“Neither enemies nor friends. She lived a life of her own, and she was
as nearly negative as any human being I ever knew.”

That was as far as they got with Mrs. Talbot. They tried to tell her
that such disappearances were either compulsory or voluntary, and they
asked her if she knew of any reason why Miss Lydia would have run away.
Her only answer was that she had taken nothing to run away with, and
that she had had a good home. Why leave it?

By two o’clock that morning the search was in full cry. Both the Common
and No Man’s Land had been searched without result, including all
outbuildings facing on the latter, and the one or two policemen who had
been on duty reported nothing suspicious. It was not until three A. M.
that the first clue was picked up, and that proved to be the missing
woman’s bag, found on Euclid Street with its beaded strap broken, and
looking as though it had either broken of itself or been jerked from her
arm.

It contained only a clean handkerchief, a dollar or two in money, and an
old hunting case watch with which everyone on the Crescent was familiar.
It made a terrific noise, and all of us could remember Miss Lydia’s bag
on a table or a chair, ticking away like a grandfather’s clock.

Scarcely any of us went to bed that night. We gathered in small groups
in each other’s houses; Margaret and her nurse in the Talbots’, where
Mrs. Talbot sat like a woman stunned and Lizzie moved inscrutably about
with coffee for everybody, and Jim Wellington and the Daltons with us.

Something possessed me then to tell about the dumb-waiter incident, and
I remember Bryan Dalton examining the outlets, and at four in the
morning insisting on nailing them all shut again. Laura Dalton had
little to say. She seemed puzzled, but she looked happier than I had
seen her look for a long time. She found an opportunity to tell me that
she was sorry for what she had said the other day.

“I was hysterical,” she said. “Of course it wasn’t true. And he hasn’t
been out of the house tonight, Louisa. Besides, why on earth should
anyone kill Lydia Talbot?”

For that was what it had come to. Not one of us but believed that Lydia
Talbot was already dead, the third and possibly the fourth in our list
of murders.




                                  XLI


The police in the meantime were working hard. One motive after another
was examined and rejected. She had neither money nor enemies, and the
two remaining possibilities were either loss of memory or a killing
without reason. Subjected to this new test even Margaret Lancaster’s
conviction, as shown in her statement, lost much of its value; and was
before many hours had passed to be proved entirely mistaken, as to her
sister Emily’s death at least.

In the meantime the Bureau of Missing Persons had sent out its usual
messages by teletype, with a careful description of Miss Lydia. It was
not only local. It extended to other cities, and to the state police of
nearby states. Her name was placed upon the general alarm, and men were
visiting the morgue, our hospitals and even our hotels and jails.
Already too by daylight that next morning, Saturday, circulars were
being printed, using an old snapshot of Miss Lydia which someone
happened to have.

I have one of these before me now. It reads: “Missing since nine-thirty
Friday night August the twenty-sixth, Miss Lydia Spencer Talbot. Born in
the United States. Age fifty-two. Height five feet eight. Weight about
one hundred and thirty pounds. Gray hair, parted and worn in hard knot.
Flat curls on forehead. Complexion medium fair. Gray eyes. Denture with
four teeth (molars) lower jaw. No identifying marks on body. Wore black
silk dress, not new, black mohair underskirt, black shoes and hose. No
rings or other jewelry. No laundry or other marks on clothing.”

In addition to all this radio broadcasts had already been sent out,
police boats on the river were on the lookout for a body, and the night
police reporters assigned to the various station houses had abandoned
their usual poker games for what promised to be another sensation. With
one result that none of them had anticipated, which was the return of
Helen Wellington.

It must have been ten o’clock in the morning when she telephoned to me
from the same hotel downtown where I had found her before, and her voice
was strained with excitement.

“Can you come down right away?” she asked. “I can’t locate Jim or
Herbert Dean, and I’m blithering all over the place. I suppose it’s
true?”

“Lydia Talbot has disappeared, yes.”

“Good heavens! Lydia! Listen, Lou; I called Jim early last night, and he
said Margaret Lancaster thinks her father killed Emily. Is that right?”

“Margaret thinks that? You don’t mean it, Helen. You can’t.”

“No, I don’t and can’t,” she said, with something of her old manner.
“She may think that, but it isn’t true. I _know_.”

I was in her room by half past ten, and found her still in traveling
clothes and pacing the floor. She was lighting one cigarette after
another, and under her make-up she was very white. She hardly greeted me
at all.

“Don’t blame poor old Jim for this,” she said. “I swore him to secrecy,
but if he had any guts—but that’s neither here nor there. We split on
the thing anyhow, and now with old Lydia gone he’ll never forgive me.”

“Just what is it all about, Helen?”

She made a gesture.

“It’s just that I’m a plain damned fool,” she said. “Things looked black
for Jim, and if they found _I’d_ been out that night——!”

“What night?”

“Last Sunday night,” she said. And finally she told her story.

She and Jim had had a difference of some sort, and she had not gone to
bed. She was nervous and angry. However that might be, at one o’clock or
thereabouts—she was not sure of the time—she had gone out to the
refrigerator for some soda, and from there to the rear porch. It was a
hot night, and for some time she had sat there on a chair staring out
over the tennis court and No Man’s Land beyond it. Everything was quiet
there, but suddenly she thought she saw a match lighted near the
Daltons’ garage to her left; a match or a flashlight.

It went out in a second or two, but it had interested her, and so she
had left the porch and gone along the kitchen path which connects all
the houses. She had just reached the end of their own shrubbery when she
saw a woman coming from beside the Dalton garage. At first this woman
was only a shadowy figure, and she remained so until she emerged into
the open. Then, by the walk and the heavy outline, Helen decided that it
must be either one of our servants or—improbable as it seemed—Emily
Lancaster.

Whoever it was, she was carrying something. And whatever it was she
carried, it seemed to be long and awkward to manage.

Helen had followed her quietly. She was quite certain now that it was
Emily, and her first horrified idea was that she was carrying an axe.
But—and this was something not known before—as she rounded the curve
of the walk near the Lancaster house itself she saw that the light was
on on the kitchen porch, and that although it was Miss Emily, what she
carried was a spade.

Helen was shocked almost into immobility at the sight. To her it meant
only one thing; that after all Emily Lancaster had taken the money and
buried it somewhere, and was now about to dig it up. So she kept on
after her, making as little noise as she could, and now and then walking
along the side of the path for that reason.

“You see how it was,” she explained. “You know the sort of heels I wear,
and when I heard the news the next morning I knew I’d left a trail about
two inches deep every here and there.”

Her suspicions were confirmed when Emily passed the rear of the
Lancaster house without stopping, and started on the longish dark path
toward the Talbots’. Here was to be the direct proof that Jim was
innocent, and she was both excited and thrilled. Then something happened
which scared her, as she said, into a fit.

There was someone behind them both! She slid into the shrubbery and hid
there, with her heart going a million a minute. But after all it turned
out to be old Mr. Lancaster, in his bare feet and a dressing gown,
coming along at a half trot, and with his right hand in his dressing
gown pocket. Helen had only a second or two to observe him clearly
before he too left the light behind. It was long enough, however.

“If ever I’ve seen a man mad with fury it was the old gentleman that
night,” she said. “He’d always seemed a mild little man, but he was a
raving lunatic just then; and Margaret’s right about one thing. There
isn’t a doubt that he was out to shoot Emily. I suppose he’d been
watching her ever since the murder, and that spade settled it. After all
she wasn’t his daughter, and he thought she had buried the gold and then
killed her mother. Well, I must say it looked like it just then.”

Helen herself was too scared to think of anything to do. Mr. Lancaster
was coming on, and ahead somewhere in the dark was Emily. She stayed in
the shrubbery until he had passed her, but she was not far behind him
when he came to the door of the old stable which was the Talbot garage.

For it seemed that Emily had not gone on into the waste land at all. She
was inside the Talbot stable, with her spade on the floor beside her,
and with a flashlight she seemed to be inspecting a corner behind a
barrel. Then Helen, not far behind the old man, saw his hand come out of
his pocket and saw that it held a gun.

“It was a close thing,” she said. “I don’t think Emily ever saw me at
all. I had just time to knock the thing out of his hand, and it must
have gone a mile. But Emily had heard something, and the poor old thing
looked up and saw her stepfather. She looked startled, and neither of
them said anything for a minute. Then she braced herself and managed to
speak.

“‘I’m sorry I wakened you, father,’ she said. ‘Margaret told me tonight
that my bird was dead and that George had put it here. I wanted to bury
the little thing.’

“He never replied to that at all,” Helen went on. “He looked queer,
however, and I didn’t stop to look for the gun. I took him by the arm
and led him back to the house and got him inside. I don’t believe he
even recognized me. He seemed dazed.”

But after she had got him back into the house—he had left the kitchen
porch unlocked—and she had helped him up the back stairs, he rallied
somewhat. He said: “Thank you, Helen. I’m afraid I am not myself. I have
been through a great deal.”

He asked her not to waken Margaret, and if she would mind getting his
pistol. But she did not leave him at once. She gave him time to get into
bed, and then she went in to see if he was comfortable. She knew where
Margaret kept the whisky too, and although he protested she went
downstairs and brought up the tantalus from the dining room.

“All the time,” she said, “I was wondering what I would say if Emily
came in. It would have looked pretty queer, my being there, and of
course I couldn’t tell her he’d tried to shoot her.”

But, although she had been in the house all of twenty minutes, Emily did
not come back, and at last she started out to find the pistol. The old
man seemed better, although according to her he still looked pretty
ghastly.

The lock was still off the kitchen door, and she left it so.

“Well, I didn’t much care to go back,” she said. “Not with guards around
the place and likely to find me on my hands and knees looking for a gun.
Not to mention Emily herself! But I went. I crawled about where I
thought it had fallen, but I couldn’t find it. I was pretty shaky by
that time, not because I suspected any trouble but because I couldn’t
think up any likely story if I was discovered. I couldn’t very well tell
the police the old gentleman had tried to kill Emily, could I? And Jim
in the mess up to his neck anyhow.

“There was no sign of Emily, and no light in the Talbot garage either. I
thought probably she was still out there somewhere burying her fool
bird. But it wasn’t any fun, there in the dark. I could see a little
against the lamps on the street, but I couldn’t very well light a match,
even if I’d had one. Finally I decided it had gone farther than I
thought, so I tried the Talbots’ drying yard; and I found it there, by
stepping on it!”

“You hadn’t heard any shot?”

“Never a shot, or anything else. I suppose George had been out and gone
back before I got there. Anyhow the Talbot house was dark. When I got
back to the old gentleman he was asleep, so I put the gun on top of his
bureau and beat it. That’s the story. You can believe it or not.”

She had been utterly incredulous when she heard of Emily’s death. Mr.
Lancaster could not have killed her. He was asleep and breathing
stentoriously when she left him. After that she began to worry. Explain
as she might, that story of hers had nothing to support it but her bare
word; and not only was Mr. Lancaster beyond interrogation, but it seemed
dreadful to her to tell of a dying man that he had made that irrational
attempt on Emily’s life.

“I simply decided to keep my mouth shut,” was the way she put it.

Just when she realized that Jim knew something she was not certain. He
was queer all of Monday and Monday night. She would find him gazing at
her, and then looking away quickly before she could catch his eye. He
drank quite a little that day, too. She found herself watching him also;
and it became a rather dreadful game according to her. For by Monday
night each of them was suspecting the other of what she called
“something.”

It was not so irrational as it sounded, she said. If Jim knew that she
had been out on Sunday night, then he too might have been out of the
house. He might have slipped out after her and returned before she did.

“Of course it was crazy,” she explained, “but I wasn’t normal, any more
than the rest of you along the Crescent. There’s a queer streak in the
Talbots, too, and his mother was a Talbot. I began to wonder if he had
it. You know his uncle ran away with a woman years ago and then up and
shot her one day. I knew that, because Jim has wondered lately if the
old boy had come back and was trying to exterminate a lot of people he
didn’t like.”

By Monday night she had worked herself into a modified sort of hysteria.
That was when she had walked into our house and said what she had said.
But after the attack on me Jim’s nerves had given way entirely, and they
had a rather dreadful scene after she left me on Thursday where each
accused the other of all sorts of unnamed crimes.

When she had jerked open the door to leave the room she found their new
butler in the hall outside, and knew that he had been listening. After
that she simply threw some things in a bag and escaped.

The night before she had weakened and called Jim. She had had time to
think.

“You have time to think in the country,” she said, lighting a cigarette
and forcing a grin. “There’s nothing else to do. And if Jim suspected me
it suddenly dawned on my weakened brain that he couldn’t have done it
himself! He’d heard of Margaret’s statement from Bert Dean, and he was
sorry as hell and quite decent. But what am I to do, Lou? If I tell,
won’t they come down on Jim again? And I can’t locate Herbert Dean
anyhow.”

I did the only thing I could think of at the time. I took her firmly by
the arm and into the elevator, and half an hour later she was telling
her story to the Police Commissioner, who beyond a tendency to scratch
now and then had apparently overcome the poison ivy.




                                  XLII


That was on Saturday, August the twenty-seventh. The reign of terror had
extended over nine days, and there was talk about evacuating the
Crescent to save further killings. Two or three timorous families on
Euclid Street behind us had already moved themselves, their children and
their family pets to remote spots in the country. Even the Avenue in our
neighborhood was largely deserted at night, the press was screaming
about the homicidal maniac who was still at large, and one tabloid
having exhausted all other resources, dug up from an unknown source the
old story of John Talbot and his love affair, with its tragic ending.
From that moment the search for Mr. Talbot was almost as intensive as
that for Lydia herself.

Mr. Lancaster was buried that afternoon, police reserves having been
called out to control the crowds around the gate and elsewhere, and a
half dozen motorcycle men escorting the body to and keeping the cemetery
clear. I had flatly refused to go there, much to Mother’s indignation.

“I had never thought that a daughter of mine,” she said, “would be found
failing in respect to the dead.”

“I am not going, mother.”

“Is that any way to speak to me, Louisa? Really, sometimes I wonder if
all this trouble hasn’t done something very strange to you.”

“I’m afraid it has, mother.”

She whirled from where she was standing in front of her mirror, pinning
on her hat with its long dull-beaded black pins.

“Just what do you mean by that?” she demanded.

“I suppose,” I said carefully, “it has taught me my right to live while
I can. To live my own life, not yours, mother. Not anyone’s but mine. My
own.”

She stared at me with incredulous eyes.

“And that to me, from my own child! All I have left, after years of
sacrifice for her!”

“Just what have you sacrificed, mother?” I said, as gently as I could.
“Haven’t I been the sacrifice? Isn’t this whole Crescent a monument to
the sacrifice of some one or other? And to what? To security? Then where
is it? To how things look? They don’t look so well just now, do they? If
you believe in either one or the other you might look out the window!”

She made no answer to that. She gathered up her dull black bag,
straightened the folds of her mourning veil, and went to the door. There
she stopped and turned.

“I would like to know,” she said bitterly, “if Doctor Armstrong has put
these—these outrageous notions into your head.”

“No,” I told her. “It was someone else, and if he ever asks me to marry
him I shall do so.”

I doubt if she heard much of the funeral service that day. I know that
when she returned she locked herself into her bedroom, and that she did
not speak to me again for twenty-four hours. But as those twenty-four
hours were filled with excitement I am afraid I felt this punishment
less than I should.

There had been no sign whatever of Lydia Talbot through all of Saturday.
Downtown in the District Attorney’s office Helen was being examined on
her story of Emily Lancaster’s last night, with the usual group about
her, and the only result the complete destruction of Margaret’s theory.
And, although no one knew this at the time, Herbert Dean had spent at
least a part of the day going from one hairdresser to another, carrying
a photograph with him. The remainder of the time, or some portion of it,
he spent in a lodging house on a narrow street behind the hospital; the
address of which he had obtained, not without difficulty, from the
blotter he had taken from Emily Lancaster’s desk in the MacMullen house.

There, as I know now, he got permission from a reluctant landlady to
examine a small furnished room, extremely tidy, but from which all
traces of its recent occupant had been taken the night before. Except
for the books. The room was almost filled with books.

“Must have been quite a reader.”

“Yes, sir. He didn’t do much else. I was sorry to lose him. He’d been
here ten years.”

“Is he sending for these books?”

“Well, now, that’s funny for a man as fond of them as he was. They were
like his children in a way, if you know what I mean. But he said I was
to give them to the library. He wouldn’t need them again.”

The net result of all this being that a puzzled and irritated
Commissioner of Police was that afternoon asked for another guard, this
time to watch the house behind the library; was also requested to issue
a general alarm for one Robert Daniels, street cleaner to the Department
of Public Works; and was left to read and study a mass of aged and not
too clean clippings from a city in an adjoining state.

“What’s the big idea, Dean?” he demanded. “If you think this fellow
Daniels is the killer, why don’t you say so?”

“I haven’t any idea that he is the killer,” Dean replied soberly. “What
I want to do is to save his life.”

But on the Crescent we still remained in ignorance of all this. The only
news I had was that Lizzie, from the Talbots’, had not returned from Mr.
Lancaster’s funeral. That came to me at my lonely dinner, via Annie and
the grapevine telegraph, and lost nothing in the telling.

Briefly, Lizzie had been acting in a strange manner all week. She had
eaten scarcely anything, and had been so hard to get along with that she
and Mrs. Talbot had had a frightful fuss early that day. The whole house
had heard it, and no one had been greatly surprised when Lizzie at once
went to her room and packed her old-fashioned valise. They were
surprised, however, to see her come out to the servants’ car—it is our
custom on such occasions to supply our domestics with
transportation—and to drive quietly enough to the cemetery. The valise
she placed in front, beside the driver.

It was not until the return journey that she spoke at all, and then it
was only to the chauffeur. She reached through the window in front of
her and touched him on the shoulder.

“I’ll get out here,” she said.

Some one of the women tried to say good-bye to her, but she paid no
attention; and the last they saw of her she was standing with her valise
at her feet and apparently waiting for an interurban car.

“Well, we understood well enough, miss,” Annie said. “Her sister’s got a
farm out near Hollytree. But to go off like that, with all of us knowing
her for years—well, I suppose she felt pretty bad, with one thing and
another. I’m not one to hold a grudge against her.”

It seemed natural enough to me, knowing Lizzie’s dour manner. During all
my early years she had terrified me. She had beaten George within an
inch of his life when he had frightened me with the dumb-waiter, and had
then taken the black and some of the skin off his nose with sapolio. And
she had smacked me soundly once when she found me in the Talbot stable
trying to smoke a seedpod from their Indian cigar tree. A hard dauntless
woman, Lizzie, whose other name I had never even heard up to that time,
and whose jet-black dyed hair was as familiar to me as the ancient cameo
pin with which she pinned her high collar.

But I was less easy about her after George Talbot had been in to see me
that evening. He had been following all sorts of police clues through
the day, and he looked dirty and tired. Mother was still shut away in
high dudgeon when he came into the library and put a copy of the tabloid
into my hands.

“I suppose you’ve seen this dirty stuff, Lou?”

“Yes.”

“And you knew the story before?”

“I really don’t know any story, George. I overheard some talk a night or
two ago, but——”

“And that’s been the Great Secret!” he said disgustedly. “All these
years I’ve known there was one. I’ve known damned well too that
everybody else along here knew it, except you perhaps. And now this
filthy paper brings it out and just about intimates that my father’s
back and at the old tricks. By God, for a plugged nickel I’d go down and
beat up the lot of them!”

He quieted down after a time. He seemed indeed more annoyed that this
Great Secret had turned out as it had than for any other reason.

“Look what it’s done to us!” he said. “We lived locked up and bolted
away! And why? He wasn’t crazy. That was a trick to save his neck, and
I’m darned glad he did. Glad he escaped from their lunatic asylum too. A
man gets caught by a pretty face, runs away with it, takes another name,
and then is found one day in a hotel room with a gun in his hand and the
woman dead. She’s wrecked him, and he finishes her. And for almost
thirty years Mother expects him to come back and shoot her too! Why? She
didn’t mean anything to him. I doubt if she ever did.”

With which unfilial remark he got up.

“The only decently normal person left in the house was Lizzie,” he said.
“Now I suppose you know she’s left. Driven off, I suppose, like Aunt
Lydia.”

“George! Do you think your Aunt Lydia simply went away?”

He made a despairing gesture.

“How do I know?” he said. “She’d wanted to go. Wanted it for years. I
never blamed her much, although I didn’t like her. But Lizzie is
different. She didn’t want to go. Why should she leave what’s been her
home for more than thirty years? There’s something very queer there,
Lou.”

He got up.

“Well, I’ll take that rotten sheet and get out,” he said. “I’ve still
got to take my sleuth for his walk before I go to bed!”

He took the paper and went away. I had read it, and its implication was
plain enough. But both George and I were wrong that night. The tabloid
contained only a part of what he called the Great Secret, and we were to
have another tragedy before we learned the rest of it.




                                 XLIII


If George Talbot was tired and dirty that night, he was nothing to
Herbert when, at half past nine, he rang the doorbell. He had abandoned
all pretension to being other than he was, and that Annie appreciated
this was shown by the avidity with which she agreed to bring him the
tray of any sort of food she had, which he asked for.

“I hope you don’t mind, Lou,” he said. “I haven’t eaten today, and
tonight I’m worried. That’s feeble for the way I feel. Where’s your
mother?”

“She’s in bed. I’m afraid she is sulking.”

He ignored that and at once stated his intention of spending the night
in the house, and on guard.

“On guard? Here?” I asked.

“Where else? In the first place, I want to be sure you’re safe. That’s
vital. But in the second place, so long as our killer thinks there are
dangerous prints in that album, and thinks that that album is here,
there may be other attempts to get it.”

He went on to explain, leaning back like the tired man he was, in his
big chair. There were new lines on his face, and he looked fairly
exhausted.

I cannot recall all that he said. It had something to do with the fact
that a carefully premeditated killing, like that of Mrs. Lancaster,
implied more than the sequence of events leading up to it. It meant
another sequence to follow it, and this sequence could only be planned
in advance. If then any part of this following sequence was altered,
even in the smallest degree, every other part of it was changed.

In this case the album had slipped, or it was the gloves perhaps. They
were too clumsy; the wearer could not take something badly wanted out of
the album. The gloves had to be abandoned and an attempt made to tear
out the page. But the page was mounted on cloth, and time was at a
premium. Then there was probably an alarm of some sort. That might have
been when the desperate attempt was made to raise the screen.

Whatever it was, the original plan had slipped then and there and with
it all the rest of the sequences which had been meant to follow.

Annie brought the tray about that time, and he ate like a famished man.
I had asked no questions and I let him finish in silence. It was after
he had pushed away the tray that he came over and put a hand on my
shoulder.

“What a restful person you are, Lou,” he said. “And when this is all
over——”

Annie came back for the tray then, and whatever he had meant to say
never was finished. He was absorbed in our crimes again, the lone wolf
in spite of his disclaimer, still following an idea of his own against
the open cynicism of Inspector Briggs. What he maintained, and what has
since been accepted as a fact, was as follows:

On the day of Mrs. Lancaster’s death an unknown person had gained access
to the house. The method was still in doubt, although he himself was
fairly sure of it. At some previous time this unknown had visited the
housemaid’s closet on the second floor, and after tying a long cord to a
pipe there, had slipped it under the window screen, where it hung
concealed beside or behind the tin drain pipe from the roof. If
discovered, it would mean little or nothing. If not discovered, it
offered a practical method of bringing the axe into the house.

That Thursday was chosen because it was the housemaid’s day out, and the
closet would presumably be undisturbed that afternoon.

Having then got into the house and being concealed there and probably
locked in, one of two courses was followed. Either the outer clothes
were taken off or something put on over them which could later on be
discarded and destroyed. The closet offered a wash bowl and running
water, and it was close to the head of the back stairs. Escape had been
made later on by those kitchen stairs and the kitchen porch; and the
killer could walk away or even be seen, without any trace of blood to
betray the grisly secret.

Both the police and he had agreed on this theory of his, provided the
crime was not an inside one. The purpose of the glove thrown down into
the hall had been to indicate an escape in that direction, but for some
reason the second glove had been kept. The problem of disposing of it
had been solved by placing it in the top of the drain pipe, and the
heavy rain that night had washed it down to where I had found it.

“The Providence of God, Lou,” he said gravely. “For that glove could
only have come from the pipe, and the only access to the pipe was that
closet window! There, in that closet, you see, was the story.”

The Inspector and he had come to the parting of the ways, however, over
Margaret Lancaster’s story; and Helen Wellington’s testimony that day as
to Sunday night had resulted in a definite schism between them.

“That blows it wide open, Dean,” the Inspector had said, banging a fist
on his desk. “I don’t care what you think or say. What about that closet
anyhow? It’s my opinion that it was Margaret who was in it. You’ve got
to go a long way to get some outsider through a locked door into that
house, but this woman was there all the time. Then what does she do? She
gets that first glove out, by giving it to Lou Hall. She gives Dalton
something to burn, and we’ve only her word as to what it was. And after
Emily is shot she switches the barrels of those two guns and keeps it
quiet until she misses her father’s from his room.

“That scares her. Maybe that nurse told her we had it. So she cooks up a
story and brings it to us. The old man is dead, so she hangs that second
killing on him. It’s safe, and it’s good. I’ll say it was good! Only the
Wellington woman turns up and knocks it over the fence and out of
bounds.”

Apparently he went even further. He considered it highly probable that
Margaret had either employed Holmes to get the trunk, or had known it
was to be taken and had found someone else to take it from him. “Easy
enough these days,” was what he said. “One grand would get fifty fellows
to do that job—unless they knew what was in it!”

Herbert had pointed out the absurdity of that. If Margaret knew where
the money was, why steal it? It was hers anyhow. All she had to do was
to tell the police that she suspected where Emily had hidden it, and she
had it.

“Not if she’d killed her sister,” the Inspector said stubbornly. “Maybe
Emily kept a diary in the trunk, or something to show that she was
afraid of her. She may have told Margaret that. For she was afraid. She
was scared stiff, and that’s a fact. She had more than three days after
her mother’s death to tell the truth, but did she? She did not. Then on
Saturday night someone tries to break into her room and she beats it!
For where? She gets out of that house, and when the Talbots let her in
she says that ‘they’ are after her. Who are ‘they,’ Dean? Her own
people, that’s what.”

It was all rational enough, although Dean pointed out the device by
which the axe had been taken into the house as destroying much of it. It
was awkward and inept, he maintained. The axe was not used in the
summer, and Margaret could have taken it in at night—any night—without
discovery. The very fact that Bryan Dalton had seen it in that cautious
ascent showed that the method was dangerous in the extreme.

But his case, he said, lay largely in the old album; and that, he added,
was why he had come out that night.

“Not that I don’t always want to come, light of my life,” he said, with
something of his usual cheerfulness. “But if I’m guessing right there
have been two attempts to get the thing, and there is likely to be
another. That lets Margaret Lancaster out. She knows those fingerprints
are burned. But there is someone who doesn’t know it, and who thinks
that the album is still here.”

Then he grinned at me.

“I’ve been rechecking the alibis for that Thursday afternoon,” he said.
“About the only one we can check absolutely is your mother’s, and there
is an old axiom that the more perfect the alibi the more suspicious it
is! And how do we know, my love, that you were sitting sewing at your
window, as you say you were? Or that Helen was shopping and running up
more bills? Or that Jim after all didn’t need that legacy to pay them?”

“But you know better,” I said sharply.

“Oh, yes, I know better. I even know who did it, or think I do. Someone,
my dear, who had easy access to that house. Who knew its habits to the
last minute. Who was ordinarily calm on the surface, but was capable of
terrible rages. Maybe someone who was sane enough but not quite normal.
But how am I to prove it?”

Suddenly I thought I saw a real light. I sat bolt upright in my chair.

“It was Lizzie!” I said. “Lizzie from the Talbots’! It must have been.
She loathed Mrs. Lancaster, but she was always in and out of the house.
And she’s terrible when she’s angry. I’ve seen her angry.”

He was lighting his pipe.

“Well,” he said thoughtfully, “let’s consider Lizzie. I’ve done it
already. She——”

“But she’s gone, Herbert. She ran away this afternoon.”

“Ran away? Where?” he asked sharply.

“I don’t know. To her sister’s, perhaps.”

I told him what Annie had said, and he sent for her and questioned her
quickly. He looked sober and anxious, and after making me promise not to
leave my room that night and assuring me that there would be a guard
outside, he merely put a hand on my shoulder for a second, caught up his
hat and left.

A minute later I heard him driving out of the Crescent like a crazy man.

That was at half past ten on Saturday night, August the twenty-seventh.
But it was not until almost midnight that the police located the driver
of the interurban car Lizzie had taken, and discovered that she had left
it some four miles beyond Hollytree at a stop which was nothing but a
dirt road crossing the track. Within fifteen minutes of that time city
police, the sheriff’s car and two or three hastily notified state
troopers were converging on the Hollytree district, their orders being
to trace if possible a tall thin woman dressed in black and carrying an
old-fashioned valise, who had left the car at that point; and also to
find the farm belonging to her sister.

They found the farm; a small down-at-the-heel place, and finally roused
the family. But Lizzie had not been there. From the moment she had
stepped off the platform of that interurban car she had apparently
disappeared into a void.

It was ten o’clock the next morning before they had any clue whatever.
Then a man living on the outskirts of Hollytree telephoned in to Police
Headquarters in the city.

“I’ve got a white dog out here. He’s a wanderer, and he came home about
an hour ago covered with blood. He isn’t hurt. He looks as though he’d
been swimming in bloody water, and I thought you’d like to see him
before I wash him. It looks queer to me.”




                                  XLIV


Herbert and Sullivan went out at once, and the Inspector followed with
the Police Commissioner, who was in golf clothes and rather irritated at
losing his Sunday morning game. The dog was in an enclosure behind a
small house, and a half dozen curious neighbors were staring at him over
the fence. He wore a muzzle “so he couldn’t lick the stuff off, sir.”

There was no doubt among any of the men that “the stuff” was blood.
There was a serious question, of course, as to whether it was human or
not. The result was that Herbert Dean cut off some of the hair and went
back to town with it to make the usual test, and that he missed the
search which followed.

Judging from the newspapers the next day it was an exciting one. It was
a Sunday morning, and that part of the local population which had not
gone to church turned out with a will. Orders were to look, not
necessarily for a lake or stream, but for some small and stagnant body
of water where blood would lie. They were warned also that blood changes
in sunlight, or even assumes the color of its background, and were to
mark and report any suspicious body of water, however small, whether it
bore any indication of what they were after or not.

In the meantime Dean had telephoned that the microscope showed that the
specimen was undoubtedly human blood, and as soon as possible he
rejoined them. He was too late, however.

On the outskirts of the town itself, and only a hundred feet or so from
the main road, was an empty house which had a local reputation for being
haunted. It had been for rent, furnished, for the past five years.
Recently, however, it had been rented. A week or so before a man had
called the owner over the telephone and taken it for the summer. He had
sent two months’ rent in advance and had ordered the key left in the
house on a certain day.

Strange as all this was, the owner had formed a theory. Once or twice
members of the local psychic society had held sittings there, and as
those people often preferred to be anonymous, he had accepted the terms
without question.

He had not been asked to make any repairs, and he had made none. No
tenant had moved in, although on the Wednesday night previous the
neighbors had reported that a car had stopped there and that something
had been moved into the building. As the nearest house was five hundred
yards away, the identity of this object was not known. But on that
Sunday morning while the search was going on this owner, a man named
Johnson, decided to walk over to see if his new tenant had arrived.

He was uneasy, for the drain pipe which carried the waste water out of
the house had broken, and if used the water would collect in a low-lying
bit of ground behind it.

He saw no signs of occupancy, and walked around the house to the rear.
Here he saw a largish pool, covering an area about eight by eight feet
and several inches deep in the center. But he saw more than that. He saw
that this pool was covered with a thin film of what looked like blood.

He did not enter the house at all. He rushed back into town and got the
police, and together they broke down the door.

If they had expected to find any sign of crime, they were mistaken. The
house was bare, clean and without sign of occupancy; but a damp spot on
the bathroom wall over the tub looked as though it had been washed
recently. This wall was papered, and the washing had loosened the paper,
which was still moist.

“How long ago, Dean?” asked the Inspector.

“Six hours, maybe. It’s hard to tell.”

The first search revealed nothing else. The cellar floor had not been
disturbed, nor could they find any indication outside that anything had
been buried on the property. A second and more thorough examination,
however, revealed something of vital importance.

In the cellar, piled behind a stack of cut wood, they found the drawers
of a new wardrobe trunk of good quality, and not one of them doubted
their significance. Whether all this related to the disappearance of
Lydia Talbot or not, they were on the heels of a crime, and none of them
but felt confident that a body had taken the place of those drawers in a
trunk.

Here they found unexpected corroboration. A dairyman in the vicinity,
driving with his cans to the station early that morning, had seen a
trunk being taken out of the house by the Hollytree expressman, whom he
knew well by sight.

“And right there,” said the Inspector later, “we ran into the worst luck
of all that unlucky business; for this fellow who does the local hauling
had piled his whole family in his truck and gone for a week-end camping
trip. And he never showed up until late Monday night!”

In spite of the hot trail, however, inquiry for the trunk brought no
results that day. It had not been shipped from Hollytree or any station
nearby, and at last they fell back on the city itself. Here they faced
the usual baggage room congestion of the summer months, and they were in
the position of men certain that a terrible crime had been committed and
without a single clue as to where to find the body.

The frantic search included one for the camping party, but without
result; and it was not until noon of a hot Monday that a trunk, waiting
to be called for on the blistering platform of a way station a hundred
miles from the city began to excite the interest and apprehension of the
agent.

He sent for the police, and the trunk was opened, about six o’clock that
night. It contained the body of a middle-aged woman, all but the head,
and was at once identified by the clothing and so on as that of Lydia
Talbot. The head had been removed to allow the body to be placed in the
trunk, and the entire body had been wrapped in an old piece of carpet
from the house at Hollytree.

I have gone as little as possible into detail. The trunk, as I have said
earlier, had been disguised by a number of foreign labels, but was
readily recognized as the one Miss Emily had bought and sent to the
house on Liberty Avenue. There was no sign of the gold and currency it
had once held, however, and an almost microscopic examination of the
premises near Hollytree revealed no trace of it there.

This was the situation then on that Monday evening, the eleventh day
after our first murder. Mrs. Talbot had collapsed; no sign had been
found of Lizzie, although a nation-wide search had been instituted and a
general alarm had gone out at once; George Talbot had been violently
sick after viewing the body; and Laura Dalton had crept on Monday night
to her husband’s room, knocked at the door and been heard crying
hysterically after he had admitted her.

The general demoralization on the Crescent was utter and complete. One
by one our old servants began to give notice, the Daltons’ Joseph being
the first, and on Tuesday morning our colored laundresses one by one put
down their irons, walked upstairs and handed in their resignations.

Helen Wellington came in on Monday to say that John, her new butler, had
vanished without pay, and that the remainder were packing their trunks.

“I’ve told them how absurd they are,” she said, “but it’s no use.
Lizzie’s done her dirty work and she’s got the money. Why on earth
should she come back? Jim says she is crazy, but I wish I could be crazy
for the best part of a hundred thousand dollars!”

A dozen Lizzies had been found by Monday night, and every hour new ones
were turning up. She was a common enough type of middle-aged spinster,
and the numbers of spinsters of that age who had dyed their hair black
was an embarrassment to the police.

Such information as we had in our house during those two wild days was
practically entirely from the newspapers. I did not hear at all from
Herbert. But the new tragedy had at least brought Mother out of her
retirement, and renewed our relationship on a cool but talkative basis.

She was entirely convinced that the killer all along had been Lizzie.

“She never liked Hester Talbot,” she said, “but she was fond of Lydia
and John. She never got over the fact that when Mrs. Lancaster’s first
husband died she kept all the money. He left a will leaving part of his
property to them, but after he died she produced a new one cutting them
off. Lizzie Cromwell always said she’d forged it! Of course that wasn’t
true, but I think they all believed it.

“Then when John got into trouble and shot this woman he’d run off with,
Hester Talbot wouldn’t pay a good lawyer for him, and neither would the
Lancasters. It was just by luck that he was found insane, although he
really wasn’t—and sent somewhere. But there was no scandal here. He had
assumed another name, and he was tried and convicted under it. It was a
great trouble to all of us, and although Lydia got over it all I don’t
think Lizzie ever did. I always thought she was a little in love with
John herself!”

But she added something which I now believe to be the truth.

“I have wondered lately about poor Emily and that money she took,
Louisa. She never cared anything about money, and sometimes I think—Do
you suppose she had met John Talbot somewhere—he’d escaped years ago,
you know—and that she took it for him? It was all so unlike her,
somehow. And she was always fond of him.”

Curious, all that, when I remember that it must have been almost at that
time on Monday night that an elderly man, with thick spectacles and one
side of his face drooping from an old paralysis, walked into the
seventeenth precinct station house and collapsed onto a bench.




                                  XLV


He sat there for some time before anyone noticed him. Then the sergeant
sent an officer over. The man had dropped asleep by that time, and the
officer shook him.

“What’s wrong, old timer?” he asked not ungently. “Snap out of it!”

The man blinked at him through his spectacles.

“I don’t know,” he said, in a rather cultivated but halting voice. “I
can’t seem to remember my name, or who I am.” And he added, with an
apologetic smile: “Memory is like a purse, officer. ‘If it be over full
all will drop out of it!’”

The officer eyed him, and then went back to the desk.

“Old boy’s lost his memory, or so he says. Better put him somewhere for
the night, eh?”

The sergeant agreed, and this story might have had a different ending
but for that very decision. For it was when a jailer was taking him back
to a cell that he noticed some stains on the man’s white shirt. He
stopped in the long stone-paved passage and looked at it.

“Ain’t hurt anywhere, are you?”

“No, I don’t think so.”

The jailer was mildly curious. In the cell he got his prisoner to take
off his coat, and was shocked to find that the turned-up cuffs of the
shirt were also badly stained. The unknown eyed them himself through his
spectacles.

“That’s strange,” he said haltingly. “Now how did I get that?”

“You’re asking me!” said the policeman. “What you been doing? Killing a
pig?”

The man shook his head, and then slowly drew something out of a trousers
pocket and gravely handed it to the officer.

“This doesn’t belong to me,” he said in his halting voice. “I have no
idea how I got it.”

The policeman took it and held it up. Then he grinned.

“Looks like you been playing Santa Claus!” he said, and still grinning
carried the object out to the sergeant at the desk.

It was a short grayish beard of the cheapest variety, and made to hook
over the ears by small wires.

When the sergeant, curious himself by then, went back to the cell, it
was to find the unknown quietly asleep on his hard bed. The two men
inspected the stains on him, but he did not rouse. And he was still
asleep when Mr. Sullivan got there an hour later. Sullivan examined him
before he roused him. He was neatly dressed, but it was evidently two
days or more since he had shaved. His clothing too was incredibly dusty,
and his shoes worn and scratched as with long walking over rough ground.

Sullivan, with his usual memory for faces, had known him at once for
Daniels. He himself was tired and rather sick, for he had come from
examining the contents of that ghastly trunk, and his next step is
excusable under the circumstances. He turned to the sergeant and pointed
to the stains on the shirt.

“There’s the Crescent Place killer,” he said. “And he’s shamming. I’ll
give you fifteen minutes to bring his memory back while I get in touch
with Headquarters.”

I do not know what followed. But I do know that when the Inspector and
Herbert arrived they found Daniels stretched out on the floor of an
upper room, and that there were some words between Sullivan and Herbert
that, as the Inspector said later, fairly blistered the paint.

In the end they called an ambulance and took the unconscious man to the
hospital on Liberty Avenue; and both Herbert and Sullivan sat with him
the rest of the night. He was not hurt, it developed. He had collapsed
from a combination of fright, hunger and thirst. But if they hoped that
when he came to he would remember his identity, they were disappointed.
He refused both food and drink, and could be induced only with
difficulty to speak at all.

“Sullivan thought he was still shamming,” Herbert has said since, “but I
didn’t believe it. It was either genuine amnesia or straight hysteria.
I’d seen both in the war, from shock. I thought the poor devil had had a
shock. That’s all.”

They tried to rouse him by questioning him.

“Listen, now. Your name is Daniels, isn’t it? Robert Daniels.”

“Daniels?” he said after an interval. “No. I’m sorry, but that’s not
it.”

He did not reply at all when Herbert suggested that he was John Talbot,
and shortly after that he lapsed into what Doctor Armstrong calls a
definite catatonia. He would or could not reply to any questions at all,
was stiff and rigid in his bed, and could not be roused for the
nourishment he evidently needed. Some time in the night, however, after
the two men had gone, he wakened in a condition of frenzied excitement.
He was still confused, made terrible grimaces, and the policeman on
guard in the room had some difficulty in keeping him in bed until he
could be tied there. After that an interne gave him a hypodermic of some
sort, and he became quieter.

Police swarmed in and out of his room all that day, Tuesday, but without
result.

“You can get my point of view, Miss Hall,” the Inspector said a day or
two later. “We knew by that time that he was Talbot; Dean had wired for
his prints the night before, and they came in that day. And we knew his
history; knew he’d killed a woman, been sent to a state institution as
insane, and had escaped from it years before. You can see how it looked,
and I’ll admit the whole thing had me fooled, or Dean did. I’ve often
wondered since what you told Dean to put him on the right track. He
didn’t get _that_ out of a microscope!”

It was of no use to tell the Inspector that I had told Herbert nothing,
because I knew nothing. And Herbert Dean today says that the police
still regard his entire success in the case as due to me!

Nevertheless, although they believed that they had the Crescent Place
killer under guard in the hospital, the search for Lizzie Cromwell still
went on. She had not visited her sister’s house; and with one exception,
from late Saturday afternoon when she had left the interurban car four
miles beyond Hollytree she had seemingly dropped out of existence.

She had walked back that four miles along the track, carrying her bag;
for a man had seen her and so reported. He had seen her clearly in the
light of another car; a tall thin woman with a valise, who had stepped
aside to let the car pass. “Like one of these flashlight pictures,” he
said. “But I got a good view of her. She wore black clothes with some
sort of a big pin at her neck, and she had a kind of old-fashioned
satchel in her hand.”

That had been about ten o’clock at night, and was only a mile beyond the
house where the pool and the drawers from the trunk had been discovered.
Where and how she had spent that interval while she presumably waited
for darkness nobody knew; possibly, according to the police, resting
somewhere in that darkening countryside and waiting to meet the man
Daniels.

“One thing was sure,” said the Inspector. “This Daniels was in it up to
the neck. We took that darky to the hospital and with that fake beard on
Daniels he identified him as the man who helped carry down the trunk.
Only thing in our minds was whether he’d done away with this Lizzie too,
as well as the Talbot woman. You’ve got to remember that if he _was_
Talbot—and all of us were sure of it—he’d been crazy once, and he
might be again.”

For Lizzie had not been located, although the general alarm sent out for
her described her as meticulously as it had described Lydia Talbot. At
Headquarters everyone but Herbert believed that our murder mysteries
were solved, and that the story was written large for everyone to read.
Indeed, the Commissioner himself gave a statement to the press some time
that day; much against Herbert’s advice.

In it he stated that the various crimes had been committed as part of a
plot to secure the gold taken from the Lancaster house; and, although he
rather hedged here, he intimated guilty collusion between the street
cleaner, Daniels, and one Elizabeth or Lizzie Cromwell, still missing
but likely to be discovered before long. The gold had not yet been
located, but here too the police expected results very soon.

Nevertheless, that statement of the Commissioner’s, coupled with a
further description of Lizzie, brought some result that night. Lizzie
had been seen early on Sunday morning. A woman answering her
description, but without a valise, had gone into a restaurant of the
cheaper sort downtown and had eaten a small breakfast. For this she had
rather apologetically tendered a bill of large denomination in payment,
and had waited until the cashier sent out for change.

She had seemed very tired, but she had been neat in dress and quiet of
manner; “very ladylike.” And the cashier remembered a cameo brooch.

From the beginning the police had believed that this valise had held the
missing head, and now to the search for Lizzie was added an intensive
one for the satchel.

Late as it was, men were sent out again; not only to cover the check and
baggage rooms of the railway stations and such express offices as they
could reach, but outside the city line the county officials collected
troopers and local constables to search beside all railway tracks and
public roads leading into town. But as everyone who followed the case
will remember, the bag was not recovered until much later. Then in
dredging a new channel under one of our railroad bridges, it was brought
up one day with a load of sand, with its gruesome contents still inside.

I knew very little myself that day of what was going on. The Crescent
had sunk into a lethargy which amounted to fatalism. Our servants were
packing to leave, and Aunt Caroline was demanding over the telephone
that we close the house and stay with her downtown. At noon the police
had asked Margaret Lancaster to identify the man in the hospital, the
prints sent by mail not having yet arrived and Mrs. Talbot having
refused to leave her bed. She came over first to us, a mere shadow of
herself and looking incredibly old.

I remember thinking that Laura Dalton could never be jealous of her
again; and as she had come without a hat, noticing with a shock that the
hair I had always admired had been dyed hair, and that it was now gray
at the roots.

I admitted her myself, Annie being upstairs packing a trunk.

“May I come in, Lou?” she said. “I have to go to the hospital, and I
shall need that album I gave your mother. I don’t know why Hester Talbot
won’t go. It’s certainly her affair, not mine. If Uncle John is so
changed that he could work here for months and none of us recognize him,
how on earth am I to do it now?”

She wanted the album, she said, because there was an old photograph of
John Talbot in it. She could take it with her, and it might help. Anyhow
it was all she could think of.

I did not know what to do. Mother came in just then and said the album
was in the old schoolroom. But of course it was not, and at the end of
an hour of frantic searching Margaret went away without it.

That was the first of two visits that afternoon for the same purpose.
The second was George Talbot, in a savage humor and looking as though he
had not slept for days on end.

“Mother wants that album Margaret Lancaster gave your mother,” he said.
“I’m damned if I know why. And I’m to bring it as it is, tied up and
everything! I give you my word, Lou, that house is like a madhouse. She
won’t open her door until she knows who is outside, and I’ve had Doctor
Armstrong there twice, but she won’t let him in. As for getting her to
see that poor old chap in the hospital—! After all he’s my father. I’ve
told them to give him the best there is.”

“Then you don’t believe——?”

“Believe? Don’t be a fool, Lou. As far as I can make out he was living
the life he liked. He had his books, and he had work to do.” And he
added: “I wish I’d known who he was, Lou. Imagine me passing him day
after day, and giving him a nod when I felt like it. Well, where’s the
album?”

I had to tell him then that we could not find the album, and he looked
rather dismayed.

“More hell!” he said as he got up. “Let me know when it turns up, will
you? There’s a picture of him in it, and she wants it. God knows why!”

I remember watching him as he cut across the Common to his house, and
wondering whether I should have told him the truth; that the police had
taken the album for some mysterious purpose of their own. But I am glad
now that I did not.




                                  XLVI


That night stands out in my mind as one of gradually accumulating
horror.

It started with confusion, for at a dinner that evening served by a neat
but sullen house-parlor maid Mother suddenly determined to go to Aunt
Caroline’s.

“You and Mary,” she told Annie, “can stay for the night or go. As you
are deserting me after all these years, I feel that I am quite right in
abandoning you.”

Annie then retired in tears, and there followed a period of hectic
packing. When Mother travels, even if it be only the equivalent of
thirty city blocks, she travels; and I spent a wild hour or two
collecting the small pillows, the slumber robes and bed jackets and even
the framed photograph of my father which always accompanied her.

Both maids were ready before we were, and I remember the bumping noise
of their trunks as they were taken downstairs, and my own sense of loss
as I paid them off and saw them go.

To all this was added the hottest night of the summer, with a heavy
storm threatening and the incessant roll of distant thunder; and when at
nine o’clock the doorbell rang, I was distinctly nervous as I went
downstairs. I turned on the porch light before I opened the door, but it
proved to be Herbert Dean and I let him in.

“Getting out?” he said when I told him. “Well, that’s sensible, darling.
I’ll be a lot easier in my mind.”

“But if you’ve got the killer, as the papers say——”

“We’re not entirely through yet,” he said evasively. “The main thing
just now is to keep you safe at least until—well, until somewhere
around the end of September.”

“What is to happen the end of September?” I asked him in an unguarded
moment.

“Haven’t I told you?” he asked, in surprise. “Our wedding, of course.
Naturally I have been pretty busy; but it does seem odd that I should
have told Helen and forgotten to tell you!”

“I hope Helen declined, for me!”

“Declined? Great Scott, no. She leaped at it. She says she will never be
happy until you are out of Jim’s way.”

Incredible, all of that, in view of what happened later that night; and
as I have said, this is not a love story. Nor is it. But in that fashion
was I wooed and won that same evening, although Herbert today maintains
that he proposed to me in an entirely conventional fashion, and that I
lowered my eyes modestly and whispered a “yes.”

That, as I happen to know, occurred the next day, and of all places in
the world in the hospital on Liberty Avenue where a half-conscious John
Talbot in another room was talking garrulously to a police dictograph,
and a stenographer behind a screen was also taking notes.

The first step in the sequence of that night was when I told Herbert
that two people had wanted the album. It had almost an electrical effect
on him, and he made me recite the conversations as completely as I could
remember them. He was almost boyishly excited when I had finished.

“We’re close to the end, Lou!” he said triumphantly. “And thank heaven
for a girl like you who doesn’t talk. You’re going to talk now,
however.” He looked at his watch. “See here,” he said, “give me thirty
minutes, will you? I’ll be back by that time, and then I’ll want you to
do some telephoning. Can you hold Mother half an hour?”

I thought I could, and he left, driving off at his usual rocket-like
speed. Fortunately the storm was close by that time, and Mother is
afraid of lightning. I found her upstairs, ready to go but apprehensive,
and I managed to delay my own packing for another thirty minutes before
I carried my overnight bag down the stairs.

The house was empty and queer that night. I could never remember it
without at least one or the other of the maids in it, and the wind which
preceded the rain made strange sounds as I waited in the lower hall for
Herbert. I was shivering for some reason when I heard his car again and
admitted him.

“All here,” he said cautiously, and produced the album neatly tied up in
paper. “Now I’ll get out again, but first you’re to do a little work on
the telephone. And while you’re doing it I’ll unlock the kitchen door.
Right? I want to get back into the house after you’ve gone.”

I agreed, although I was puzzled. I was, it appeared, to call up George
Talbot and Margaret Lancaster, and to tell them that the album had been
found in the schoolroom after all. But I was also to say that we were
leaving at once, and that I would give it to each of them the next day.

“Better not do it until the taxicab is at the door,” he said, and after
a quick and excited kiss he had gone again, driving away more sedately
than usual.

I obeyed his orders to the letter. I took the album up to the
schoolroom, not without some nervous qualms, and while Mother was
gathering up her last possessions for the taxi, I was at the telephone.
She caught something of what I said, however, and was rather peevish
about it.

“Really, Louisa,” she said, “why didn’t you tell me? I shall take it to
Margaret myself. The taxi can stop there.”

It took some argument, including the approach of the storm, to get her
into the cab without the album, but at last I managed it and we drove
away. She was still offended as well as highly nervous, I remember; and
she was continually opening bags on the way downtown to be certain that
she had brought everything.

All in all it was a wild ride, for the rain was coming down in torrents
by that time and Mother insisted because of the lightning on taking a
roundabout route to avoid all trolley tracks. To add to the general
discomfort the wiper on the windshield refused to work and for the last
mile or two we went at a snail’s pace.

And then, within four blocks of Aunt Caroline’s, Mother remembered that
she had taken my father’s picture out of a suitcase and forgotten to put
it back again!

She insisted on returning at once, and it was only with difficulty that
I persuaded her to go while I took the taxi back for it. She agreed
finally and gave me her key to the front door; I had never had a key of
my own.

“It is on my bed,” she said. “You would better take the taxi man in with
you, just to be safe.”

One look at the driver convinced me that I would do nothing of the sort,
although here and now I apologize. He was to be a valuable ally that
night. But I knew that Herbert was in the house, which Mother did not,
and I may as well confess that I was rather pleased than otherwise to go
back.

Nevertheless, the sight of the darkened building in the midst of that
storm rather daunted me. The taxi man sat in his seat, stolid and
immovable. Beyond reaching a hand back to open the door he took little
or no cognizance of me. Rain poured from the roof of the cab and fell in
sheets from the porch, and I had no sooner gained its shelter than
following a terrific flash of lightning every light on the street went
out.

I let myself into the hall and felt for the light switch there. To my
horror the house lights were off also, and there was neither movement
nor sound to tell me whether Herbert was inside or not.

I groped my way into the library and found a box of matches. With the
bit of illumination my courage came back, and in the dining room I found
a candle and lighted it. There was still no sign of Herbert, and at last
I called him cautiously. There was no answer, and I was beginning to be
alarmed. Then suddenly the wind blew open the kitchen door behind me, my
candle went out, and I had not groped my way five feet before a man had
caught me in his arms and held me with a grip like a vise.

“You devil!” he said.

It was George Talbot.

I believe he would have killed me then and there, but at that moment the
light in the hall came on, and he released me and stood staring at me.

“Sorry, Lou!” he said thickly. “I thought—look here, there’s all hell
loose in this house tonight. Beat it; I’m telling you! O God, there go
the lights again!”

I had time to see that he held a golf club in his hand, however; and
with that my shaken courage returned.

“Listen, George,” I said. “I can’t go. Herbert Dean’s here somewhere,
and we’ll have to find him. If there is somebody here who is
dangerous—I’d better bring in the taxi driver. He’ll help us to look,
anyhow.”

And at that moment four shots in rapid succession were fired somewhere
in the upper part of the house. I heard George groan in the darkness,
and the next moment he had dashed out of the room and up the front
stairs. Some sheer automatism took me into the front hall, and as I
reached the foot of the stairs a flash of lightning showed the taxi
driver in the doorway. Then everything was dark again, and out of that
blackness something rushed at me from the rear of the house and knocked
me flat on the floor.

Someone ran over me as I lay there, going with incredible silence and
speed. Then there was a shocking scream, and by another lightning flash
I saw that the taxi driver was struggling to hold a black and amorphous
figure. Then there was another shot, the hall mirror fell in a crash of
glass, and I fainted.

I never heard George Talbot come rushing down the stairs nor his frantic
call over the telephone for the police. I never saw the inside of the
library, where a grim-faced taxi driver had tied up a figure with a
blackened face with the cords from the window curtains, and was now
standing with a pistol pointed at it.

But the arrival of a police car finally roused me, and I was sitting
dazedly in the hall when a few minutes later they carried down Herbert
Dean, with a leg broken by a bullet and evidently in pain, but with a
faint smile for me on a practically bloodless face.

It was midnight before I reached Aunt Caroline’s again. I had been left
to recover in the hands of a strange policeman, who seemed to know as
little of what had happened as I did. But I did not go until the
hospital had assured me that Herbert was in pain but not gravely hurt.

I must have presented a queer sight to Aunt Caroline’s butler when at
last, delivered like a warrant by the officer, he admitted me to the
house and showed me up to my usual room. My hat was at a strange angle
and my face dead white, save for a small cut where I had hit the edge of
the hall table. I felt that I would never sleep again, but I fell into
what was almost a stupor the moment I got into bed, and it was bright
daylight on Wednesday morning before I wakened again.

Aunt Caroline had sent up the morning paper with my tray, and the first
thing I saw was an enormous headline. “Crescent Place Murders Solved.
Social Registerite Held Deranged.”




                                 XLVII


All of that was on Wednesday, August the thirty-first. Our murders were
solved, and a grateful public having read the morning papers began once
more to go about its business. Editorials congratulated the police, and
certain old residents of the city shook their heads and sighed.

But the police were not entirely happy. Although they now knew the
answer to that baffling problem—and a surprising enough answer it
was—they still did not know the whole story. There was, as Herbert
says, still the question of John Talbot. How much did he know? Was he an
accomplice or an innocent victim? On the one hand, they faced the
stubborn silence of their prisoner; on the other, the inability to rouse
Talbot out of a complete and hopeless apathy.

Herbert believed that Talbot was entirely innocent. He had formed a sort
of attachment for this elderly man who for months as Daniels the street
cleaner had pursued his quiet vocation among us, mildly interested but
largely detached from that long-lost life of his, and returning at night
to his tidy room and his books. Until at last some violent current
carried him out of his eddy and into something so dreadful that his mind
refused to accept it and so shut down on it; as one may draw a curtain.

The arrest had been made on Tuesday night, but the problem of John
Talbot still faced the police on Wednesday. His condition was unchanged,
and so it was that later on that day an interesting experiment was
performed on him in his hospital room close to Herbert’s, and at
Herbert’s suggestion.

The results more than justified it, and very possibly have added a new
arm to crime detection, but it was not done without protest. At eight
o’clock that morning Herbert Dean had called Doctor Armstrong on the
telephone and had asked him to come to the hospital. There they had a
long talk, Herbert pale but insistent, the doctor objecting.

“Damn it all, man, it’s still in the experimental stage. There’s a
technique too. I don’t know it. If this is an actual catatonic
stupor—But it may be hysteria.”

“I don’t care what it is. You can get the stuff and the technique too,
can’t you? Come, doctor, this isn’t a time to hesitate. Use the long
distance telephone. Use an airplane. Use anything you like, but do it.”

Finally Doctor Armstrong agreed, and by ten o’clock that morning a
dictograph had been installed in John Talbot’s room, a screen ready for
a police stenographer placed in a corner, and a lengthy long distance
call to a great Western University had been charged, as Mother would
say, against the taxpayers of the city. Shortly after that Doctor
Armstrong came back, bringing with him a professor of neuro-psychiatry
from the local medical college and a package of a certain drug; and
asking for a basin of ice, some towels, and a syringe for making an
intravenous injection. The drug, a preparation, I believe, of sodium
amytal, was dissolved in distilled water, and with Daniels still in his
stupor it was injected into his arm.

I have largely Doctor Armstrong’s description of what followed. The man
on the bed relaxed almost at once, according to him. All rigidity
disappeared, his breathing increased but was somewhat more shallow, his
pupils on examination showed some dilatation, and he himself was sunk in
a deep sleep.

They allowed this sleep to last for an incredible time, according to the
impatient men who by now crowded the room; the District Attorney, the
Commissioner, Inspector Briggs, and Mr. Sullivan. Herbert, having fought
to the last ditch for a wheeled chair and having been refused, at last
bribed an orderly and got one; appearing in the doorway just as, the
Inspector having pinched his lip into a permanent point and the
Commissioner having called it a lot of tommyrot and threatened to leave,
one of the two medical men took a cold towel from a basin beside him and
placed it on the patient’s face. He repeated this twice, and then John
Talbot roused, not fully but to a certain level of consciousness; enough
to answer all their questions, but not enough to allow the brain
censors, whatever they may be, to close down and alter the facts.

For three hours he talked, that long lean figure on the bed which bore
so little resemblance to that crayon enlargement I had seen long ago in
the stable loft. He told what he knew and what he suspected. He answered
every question they put to him. He told them things they had never
dreamed of, and without any emotion, so far as they could see, he
recited the tale of that Saturday night and early Sunday morning; when
he had had to cut the head off a human body, and had been actively sick
in the middle of it.

The statement is too long to give here. I quote one or two lines of it,
merely to give an idea of the method.

“Why did you shoot that girl in the room of the hotel at——?”

“I didn’t shoot her. I had been out, and I came back to find her dead,
and the room full of people. It was my gun but I never did it.”

Then followed a long statement of his love for this woman, his
unhappiness at home, the long struggle before he decided to go away with
her. The police listened patiently through this flow of talk, which
included his escape from the state institution.

“I was lucky to save my neck, at that. None of my relatives would put up
any money, and my wife hated me. I don’t know that I blame her.”

Later on they asked him why he had come back to the city, and
particularly to the Crescent.

“I came back to see my son,” he told them. “I’ve been watching him for a
good many years. After the war I had a job with the iron works as a
bookkeeper, but my eyes went bad, and I had to have them operated on. I
drifted from one thing to another, and then I got this work for the
city. I was uneasy when they put me on the Crescent, but nobody
recognized me, except Emily Lancaster. She did, but I asked her to keep
quiet.”

There is a good bit here in the record about George, and the tragedy of
seeing him day after day. “He looked like a fine fellow. Sometimes he
spoke to me. I always wanted to sit down somewhere and have a real talk
with him. ‘To sow a thought and reap an act’—that’s a father’s part.
But the way things were——”

They could not shake him on the Hollytree situation, although they went
back to it again and again.

“What did you find when you got to the house near Hollytree?”

“It was done when I got there. All I could do was to get rid of the
body. I put it in the trunk.”

“What did you do with what you took out of the trunk? The money?”

“I buried it that night. I never wanted to see it again. I buried it
under some willows by the creek. Then I hid the drawers out of the trunk
in the cellar. After that I walked into the town and got the expressman
to take it away.”

“Where did you get the foreign labels for the trunk?”

“I’d traveled a great deal. I had some on some suitcases. All that I had
to do was to soak them off.”

“Did you want this money for yourself?”

“God, no. Why should I want money?”

“What became of the head?”

“I don’t know. It was in the satchel.”

On only one point was he vague at all. He had walked ever since, all of
two days and a part of two nights, until he had reached the police
station. But he did not know where he had walked. The horror had closed
down on him. He was not thinking. He was simply moving on and on, like a
machine. He had noticed some things, for here the record speaks of
“August, tarnished by the sun’s hot breath.”

It rang true, all of it. Even those cynical policemen knew that. Their
attitude softened, although his revelations made them shudder. When it
was all over Inspector Briggs put a hand on the thin shoulder and held
it there a moment.

“Now you go to sleep,” he said, “and quit worrying. We’ll fix this up.
And we’ll send your boy over to see you when you wake up.”

It was not until that long séance was over that an indignant surgeon
trundled Herbert back to his bed, and growled fiercely that he was to
get in and stay in. But that night I was allowed to see him, and it is
from our talk then that I give Herbert’s summary of the case as well as
I can.

“From the beginning it seemed clear that the money Mrs. Lancaster had
hoarded was involved somehow in her death. When Emily’s part in taking
it became known, then, we had two guesses. One was that she had taken it
for herself, that her mother was secretly able to get about and so
discovered her loss, and that Emily killed her. Against this was Emily’s
total disregard for money and her actual devotion to Mrs. Lancaster.
There were other elements too; her unspotted dress that day was only one
of them.

“Nevertheless, Margaret believed from the first that she had done it,
and that her stepfather had killed Emily. We knew that the old gentleman
had not done so, however, after Helen’s story. I never did believe it,
for that matter.

“What seemed evident after the death of Holmes was that we had, outside
of the murders, two definite plots to get hold of the money. The one was
that of Holmes himself, possibly with Peggy to help him. The other was
not so clear. I figured that more than one person was involved in it,
since we were pretty certain that on the night Holmes was killed no one
had left the Crescent. What occurred to me then was that somewhere near
where the body was found this outsider—whoever it was—had tried to get
Holmes off the truck and had perhaps run over him by accident. There was
the handkerchief on his body, for one thing, so that he would be seen by
any passing car.

“That was not the act of a murderer; I thought then of an inexpert
driver as an explanation, and as we know now, poor old Talbot hadn’t
driven a car for a good many years.

“What we now know took place is that Emily had recognized Daniels as the
uncle she had been fond of. This would have been in the spring, at the
time the coolness sprang up between her mother and herself. Probably
Emily urged some sort of help for Talbot, and the mother refused.

“That makes it likely that Emily took the money for her uncle. Maybe
not, but someone was to escape, either John Talbot or herself, and I
think it was Talbot. That’s the reason for the steamer folders in her
room. However, one thing is certain. She never told him what she was
doing. He learned that elsewhere, and he learned it after the old lady
was killed. That was when, under a threat of being sent back to the
asylum, he took Peggy’s bag from her and tried to enter the MacMullen
house; and the chain held him up! He says—and I believe it—that this
threat was used all along to force his coöperation.

“But it was a fatal mistake that Emily made when she told her mother.
The old lady could get about, as we know, when there was no one there to
see her; and she took to watching this street cleaner whenever she had a
chance. He was changed, of course. She wasn’t sure he was Talbot. Then
one day she asked Emily to bring down the old album, and there was a
picture of him in it. Day after day she compared him with it, and she
saw that Emily was right.

“That settled it, for she had a weapon now. It involved a lot of people,
and especially one person. She was not a pleasant old woman, and she had
hated the Talbots for a good many years.

“However that may be, this knowledge of hers gave her a weapon against
them. They are a proud lot, and at any time she could spring the glad
tidings that John Talbot, a fugitive from the law, was sweeping the
street in front of their very house! And I’m afraid—I’m very much
afraid, my darling—that she did just that, a day or two before she was
killed.

“You see, she was killed for two reasons: to keep her quiet and to get
that identifying photograph of Talbot out of the album. The money in a
way was incidental, and even the second reason was not vital; it only
became vital when those prints were left in the album itself.

“That killing, by the way, was as reckless and yet as cunning a piece of
work as I have ever seen. There was in all that careful preparation only
the one slip, and that was beyond control; that was the leaving of the
album with the prints, as the result of some alarm. You see, time was
vital, and she had found the old lady out of bed! That meant getting her
back and covering her, to delay discovery as long as possible. She got
her back, but she was _on_ the sheet! Little things, all of them; but
not in the plan. Then one other thing went wrong also, for the screen
would not lift. That careful method of showing an escape by the porch
roof was out. No wonder she forgot the album!

“Perhaps the grass was put there then. Perhaps it was an accident.
Perhaps poor old Emily, terrified of the discovery that the money was
gone and trying to shout ‘wolf’ for the family to hear, put it there and
overturned that pot herself. I don’t know, and it doesn’t matter now.

“What does matter is that the killer had to indicate an exit from the
house while still remaining in it. Hence—and that was quick
thinking—the glove thrown down into the hall. Then the slipping into
the housemaid’s closet, the door locked, and the careful stealthy
removal of all signs of blood.

“But there were some bad minutes in that closet, or later on. They came
when the album was remembered, and they must have been pretty terrible.
How could this killer know that Margaret Lancaster had destroyed those
prints, or had had Bryan Dalton do it for her?

“The next step was the gold itself; for there it was, with all its
potentialities. I don’t suppose we’ll ever know the truth about it. For
instance, how would this unknown know about it? Was Emily seen going
into the MacMullen house? Was it via Peggy and the grapevine telegraph?
Did someone else besides Holmes get onto the book trick? One person at
least had picked up a piece of gold after that unlucky spill in No Man’s
Land, and may have mentioned it. Or—and this is worth
consideration—did Emily in her distress take a confidant?

“She may have. She may even have told where her keys were kept in the
bird cage. I think myself that she did, or why did poor old Talbot have
to climb that porch roof to try to get them? For that’s what he did,
game leg and all, on that Saturday night.

“The cage was gone, however. You’d seen to that!

“Then, to come to the night of Emily’s death: it was late when she heard
where the cage was, and having slept all day she was wakeful. But she
was not the only person who had learned late that night that the cage
was in the stable. When George Talbot came home he was told that Emily
had been inquiring about it, and he told Mrs. Talbot and Lydia, in the
presence of Lizzie Cromwell, just where it was.

“Nevertheless, probably no murder was intended that night, and it is a
strange fact that had not one of those three women been in the laundry
later that night, secretly washing those bloody undergarments which had
been hidden away since Thursday, in all likelihood Emily Lancaster would
still be alive. But one of them was there, and she heard a sound
outside; perhaps when the revolver fell.

“I have no doubt but that it was the intention to secure the keys that
night anyhow, although the washing was more vital. But however it
happened, one thing is sure. This woman found the revolver, shot Emily
and got the keys from her. By the time George was aroused she was safely
inside the house by the basement door.

“But the keys were valuable only if they could be used, and there was a
period of uncertainty following that. Talbot says that although he had
been relieved of his job to let a police operative take his place, no
plan was made at that time. For one thing it was too dangerous. There
were police and detectives all over the place, and although this killer
of ours knew by that time that the money was in the trunk, she could
think of no way to get at it. And I’d better say here that until
Saturday night Talbot had believed what Margaret Lancaster had believed
about the two murders; that Emily had killed her mother, and that the
stepfather had shot Emily.

“It would be interesting to know if that theory originated with
Margaret, or if someone else did not suggest it to her!

“Still acting more or less under duress, Talbot finally agreed to rent
the house near Hollytree, and to take the trunk there if and when some
plan could be arranged to get it. In the interval he hung around the
MacMullen place. Those were Lydia’s orders, and he had to obey them. If
he didn’t it meant back to the asylum for him. What hope had he of
proving his case, even if it could be reopened? And to give up his job
meant the bread line.

“That is why he was on the pavement the night Holmes took it away, and
he rode right out into the country on the tail of the truck, with Holmes
not suspecting he was there. The rest is about as I had imagined. He
threw Holmes off the truck, after forcing him to stop it. But the poor
little devil made a lunge toward it just as Talbot let in the clutch,
and the thing went over him. Talbot went on. He had to go on. He had
known from Holmes himself where his place in the country was, and after
he took the trunk to the Hollytree house he simply took the truck back
there and left it. Simple, isn’t it? But he was feeling pretty sick
about Holmes himself. He went back to the place where he had left him,
lying there with that handkerchief on his chest, but the body was gone.

“After that it was plain hell for him. He had been in Europe, as well as
a lot of other places, and with that search for the trunk going on he
disguised it with those labels from his own baggage. But he was
terrified by that time. Here were three deaths already connected with
that money, and he began to fear that he would be involved, and perhaps
too to grow suspicious. He gave up his room and left his books, going to
one far downtown, and waiting there for a message.

“Then at last it came, on Saturday. That was when he went out to the
house at Hollytree late in the evening; and what he found was Lizzie
Cromwell shot to death in an upstairs bathroom, and his sister Lydia
trying to get the body into the tub.”




                                 XLVIII


So Lydia Talbot had been our killer!

She never made a statement, and she died of pneumonia shortly after her
arrest. Perhaps Doctor Armstrong is the only one among us who feels any
pity for her, and he quotes now and again that theory of murder being a
reaction from extreme repression. But she had, he says, been a psychotic
for many years, and he laid that terrible two weeks to a definite
unbalance at the end.

“Like most of you, she lived an unnatural life,” he said. “Maybe she
started only by wanting to escape that, and the money would do that for
her. But there was something else, too. She’d shot and killed that woman
years ago, and her brother had suffered the punishment for it. That must
have weighed on her for many years, and now came the old woman’s threat
to send him back to it, and she went plain crazy.”

Here, however, he added something which explains a great deal that had
puzzled me for years.

“You can take one thing as a fact. Mrs. Talbot wasn’t only locked away
from her husband. She was locked away from Lydia. And Lizzie Cromwell
was as much Lydia’s keeper as anything else. For Hester Talbot not only
knew that Lydia had killed that other woman in a fit of jealous
rage—Yes, jealous, Lou! You find things like that now and then. The
human mind is a queer thing—but that she had been abnormal for years.”

Even now I have no details of that early crime of Lydia Talbot’s, save
that she had resented her brother’s flight, had followed him and in some
wild fury killed the girl in a hotel bedroom. What was outraged pride
and what was actual jealousy no one now can ever know. But she had let
him take the punishment and never spoken; and if Mrs. Talbot suspected
the truth she had never whispered it.

In a way, harboring Lydia after that must have been her revenge on the
husband who had deserted her——

I was married—by edict!—late in the September following, and if Mother
was resentful she at least provided me with the usual dozens of this and
that which the Crescent regards as essential to any bride. But Helen
Wellington and I bought my trousseau, and I can still see Mother eying a
chiffon night-gown and then stiffly leaving the room.

We are very happy, Herbert and I, but now and then since I have found
myself still wondering about different incidents of our crimes which I
had failed to understand. Naturally too as a bride I was interested in
Herbert’s part in the final capture of Lydia Talbot. And the entire
story, as I have gradually learned it from Herbert, is interesting as
showing the manner in which he reached his own conclusion as to the
criminal.

From the beginning it seemed probable that the murderer of Mrs.
Lancaster either lived in the house or had been able to enter it without
suspicion. He and the police were agreed on this. But ever since the
hoarding had commenced the house had been kept locked, and it was Mr.
Lancaster’s custom to make the rounds two or three times a day,
examining all doors and windows.

The cellar windows were also protected by iron bars, and the door to it
was padlocked. All other windows and doors were found to be locked, and
although by inside collusion this might have been arranged, careful
investigation of the servants drew a complete blank. Two of them were
quiet and respectable women who during the entire investigation were
carefully watched without result. Peggy MacMullen, or Peggy Holmes, was
young and pretty; but she had been on the back porch, carefully dressed
and made up for her afternoon out, when the alarm was raised.

The family then came under consideration. Unnatural crimes are not new
to the police, and the overturned flower pot, the bits of grass on the
porch roof and the raised screen looked like something prearranged to
show escape by the roof. But in the family the police included Jim
Wellington. His presence in the house, his later admission that he had
been in the room, his own production of clothing stained with the dead
woman’s blood, and the final argument that he stood to win by her will
were certainly all suspicious.

Added to this was the fact that a substitution had been effected for the
gold in the chest. There was not one of them, on the morning the chest
was opened, who did not believe that whether Jim had killed his aunt or
not he had certainly systematically robbed her; and there is not a doubt
in the world that had they found that old glove of his which Margaret
had smuggled to me on Thursday night, he would have been arrested and
later on indicted for the murder.

But intensive search of his house and of the grapevine path, as well as
all open ground in the neighborhood, produced no gloves. They had
even—all this was news to me—examined the ashes of Daniels’ fire in No
Man’s Land; but all they found were a few buttons from an old suit of
overalls, and one of these went back to Headquarters, but was ignored
there.

The search, however, included more than the gloves. Miss Emily’s wild
excitement over the missing key and chain from her mother’s neck puzzled
them; and in fact it is still not quite clear to Herbert, or to any of
them, just why it was found where it was.

“You can see why Emily was worried about it,” he says. “If she could
find it and hide it it might mean a delay in the discovery that the
chest had been looted. On the other hand, the taking of the key and
chain may have been a clever move on Lydia’s part to prevent the opening
of the chest until she had managed to get away with Emily’s trunk. I
imagine that’s the real answer; but things got too hot for her. She
buried it where it was found later on, and I’ve wondered since whether
Lizzie Cromwell didn’t see her do it. Something made Lizzie suspect her
even before the night Emily was killed. That’s certain.”

Before I leave the keys and get back to the first murder, I should
explain here that Herbert is confident that Emily had a second key to
the chest, since she could not have used the one her mother wore around
her neck.

“And I fancy that there is where Holmes first came into the case,” he
says. “He was handy with tools, and either she gave him a tracing of the
key she wanted and had him make her one, or she asked him to get one
from a locksmith. That would have been in the spring, but Holmes was
shrewd. He knew through Peggy that the gold was in the house, and he
knew of that room she had taken at the MacMullens’. When he learned that
the money was missing, all he had to do was to figure how it had been
taken out, so he made his book into a box and—well, it killed him.”

The District Attorney that first night was unwilling to hold Jim. He had
made a good witness. Also he was well and favorably known, and the
police could not afford to make any mistake.

But also Mr. Sullivan, who had had more than one axe murder in his
experience, had examined those clothes of Jim’s, and he maintained that
the stains on them were not the stains which would have come as the axe
was lifted for one blow after another. They looked, according to the
detective, to be exactly what Jim had said they were. If he had raised
the axe there would have been drops on his coat and shirt. There were
none there.

In the end they let him go, but he was under careful surveillance from
that time on.

Up to that point Herbert and the police were in agreement. But now they
split.

“They had made two divisions,” he explains. “The people in the house and
someone outside. I made three, for I included the visitors that day, Jim
himself, Mrs. Talbot and Lydia, and it was at the inquest on Saturday
that I got a bit of light.

“Lydia Talbot had been admitted by the front door with her basket for
Mrs. Lancaster, had later taken the basket to the rear of the house and
gone out by the kitchen door. Natural enough, probably; but if you are
up against a locked house where no one could get in but someone
apparently had, you have to begin somewhere.

“And I didn’t like her. She was a neurotic. It was in that flat voice of
hers, was written all over her.”

What he wondered that day was just what Lydia had done after she left
Mrs. Lancaster’s room and before she appeared down the back stairs to
the kitchen porch to leave her basket and its contents.

“What she could have done, if conditions were right, was obvious enough.
She could have slipped down the front stairs, unlocked the front door,
gone back up to where she had left the basket and taken it down to the
kitchen porch. She had two witnesses there to prove that she had left
the house. Then, under cover of all that shrubbery, all she had to do
was to circle the house, going by the empty laundry wing, and enter it
again by the front door, locking it behind her.”

It was only a possibility at first. He knew nothing of the Crescent, or
of its interrelationships. There seemed no object in her killing her
sister-in-law. They might have quarreled, of course. There was Emily on
the stand saying she had left Lydia with her mother while she cleaned
her bird’s cage. But the presence of the axe was the rock on which he
almost foundered.

“Grant a quarrel or anything you like, she had carried no axe in a
ten-inch basket, although we know now that she carried some other things
besides food! A ball of cord, for instance, and a knife or a pair of
scissors. And that axe had to be taken into the house somehow.”

By the Sunday morning after the first murder, however, he had veered to
the idea that it was an inside job after all. He had got us all
straightened out in his mind by that time, and he had had my story of
the glove. He was still working on his own, and I have already told how
I got him into the Lancaster house.

What he wanted was the second glove, or some proof that it had been
destroyed. But he also wanted to examine the house itself. Already he
had a fair idea—through Holmes and his experiment with the book—as to
how the money had been carried out. He knew too that the Crescent was
not as arrogantly at peace as the front it presented to the world, and
he was turning over in his mind Mrs. Talbot and her locked house.

“Either she was crazy,” he says, “or she was afraid of someone inside
the place. She didn’t lock only her windows and her outer doors. She had
the inner doors locked too. And I’d watched her on the stand. She was
scared almost to death. That voice of hers was—well, a shout of
defiance. She knew something, or she suspected someone.”

That Sunday morning, however, he was still suspicious of Margaret
Lancaster. He had not missed the significance of her shower, and he had
been practically certain that the man he had seen on the roof was her
stepfather. He came pretty close to knowing what he was looking for,
also.

Still, back in his mind was that idea that somebody could have entered
the house, locked as it was, and hidden away until the moment came; that
moment which to anyone who knew the family habits was the one time in
the day when the thing could be done.

“There were a number of such places,” he says. “Any room in the guest
wing would have answered. But I happened to find something in the
housemaid’s closet on the second floor which made me fairly jump. The
key was on the inside of the door! That was absurd on the face of it.
Why lock such a place at all? And especially why lock one’s self in it?”

He spent all the rest of his time there. It had two smallish windows;
one opening onto the roof of the kitchen porch, and a larger one which
overlooked No Man’s Land and a flower border beneath. He opened the
first one, and found the opening to the drain pipe just below it. Then
he examined the closet itself.

It was clean, with no bloodstains whatever. The walls and floor were of
white tile, and he switched on the light and went over them carefully.
Also he examined the sponge and cleaning cloths, as well as Mr.
Lancaster’s boot-box, but they suggested nothing. However, he slipped
the sponge into his pocket before he left, and analysis of it later on
showed faint traces of human blood.

Just before he left he looked up, and he saw tied to a water pipe a
short length of heavy cord. It had been cut, as if time had been too
short to untie its knots, and when he left the Lancaster house that
morning he was certain, not only that Lydia Talbot had committed the
crime, but that he knew how she had brought the axe into the house.




                                  XLIX


“What I figured was that she had previously—the night before,
perhaps—hidden the axe in that flower border. If it was found it might
be mysterious, but nothing more. The rest was easy too. Here was
Margaret in her room and Emily and Mrs. Talbot with the old lady. She
had the run of the house for some time, and even if she were discovered
in it nobody would have questioned it.

“But she wasn’t discovered. What she did before she went down and out
the kitchen door was to drop that string of hers down the outside wall,
beside the drain pipe. Then after she was outside—in case anyone was
looking—she could tie the end of it to the axe, and seem only to be
looking at the flowers. That’s what she did anyhow. Maybe she picked one
or two as an excuse, for she had to pass the kitchen porch again to get
around the other end of the house. Eben was at the end next to you. She
did pass that porch again, for both the girls there saw her. They
thought nothing of it, naturally.”

When, that Sunday morning, I had found the second glove, he felt that he
had everything against her save actual proof. He was confident that she
had locked herself in that closet, knowing the housemaid was out that
day; that she had there taken off her hat and dress; that she had with
infinite caution drawn up the axe, assisted by the chatter and noise
below; that at the last moment she had seen Mr. Lancaster’s gloves in
his shoe-box and had put them on; and that having committed her furious
crime she had returned there, locked herself in and safely and
systematically washed, cleaned the closet, redressed and finally escaped
by way of the back stairs and the deserted porch after Bryan Dalton had
gone.

Unfortunately, other things had happened, or began to happen. There was
Emily’s wild flight to the Talbots, and her cry that “they” were after
her. There was the undoubted fact that someone had climbed a porch
pillar and tried to enter Emily’s room, and as Herbert says:

“Not by the wildest flight of my imagination could I see Lydia Talbot
doing that—unless she had wings.”

And then on that Sunday night there came the shooting of Emily, and
following that the mix-up about two identical makes of revolvers. His
theory did not fit any of all that, nor did the death of Holmes. It was
a Chinese puzzle, and he began all over again, this time on Margaret. By
that time he was openly working with the police, and he had seen Annie’s
anonymous letter.

He could not fit either Margaret or Dalton into the picture, however. It
is true that he began to suspect some outside assistance, and he knew
before long that Bryan Dalton had stood by the woodshed that afternoon,
and had burned his overalls that night and something else as well. But
why should Margaret have used the closet when her own room offered a
safer refuge? Or why should she have brought the axe in by that method
when she could have carried it in at night, any night?

What deceived him too for a time was Lydia Talbot’s own demeanor. She
was moving much as usual around her narrow orbit; neither overacting nor
underacting her part.

The reason for Emily being out that Sunday night also worried him. Every
inch of No Man’s Land had been gone over, but neither the police nor he
had missed the possible significance of that spade. It had been his own
theory that Emily had secreted the money elsewhere; possibly in a rented
room not far away. But no keys to such a room had been found, nor was
there any trace in the house of the book which she had almost certainly
used as a receptacle for it.

It was my own story of the lost bird cage which gave him his first clue
to the whereabouts of the keys, and as we know the police themselves
prevented his finding them in time. “If I’d got Talbot that night I’d
have had the story,” he adds.

Then came the attack on me, apparently purposeless, and shortly after
that the MacMullen woman’s story and the death of Holmes. Also Herbert
had made that night examination of Mrs. Lancaster’s room, and was
convinced that she had been out of bed when at least the first blow was
struck. In that case she might well have known that the money was gone
and been killed to gain time until it could be placed somewhere in
safety.

The discovery of Emily’s hidden room did only one thing to help solve
the murder. A photographic enlargement of the blotter found there
enabled Herbert to read on it the address of the house behind the
library, and to enable him to examine the family history for a possible
connection with the man Daniels.

“The only real brain-storm I had was right there,” he says. “There could
be no logical connection between the two of them, on the facts. But she
had written to him, and more than once. It was then that this story Jim
had told about John Talbot popped into my mind. I got the details from
Jim, but it was your Aunt Caroline, my darling, who remembered the date
and the name under which he had been convicted. Which was not Daniels,
by the way. After that I sent for old files of the newspapers where it
had happened, and——”

“Aunt Caroline! Whatever made you go to her?”

“Because, O light of my life, your mother would not talk! Aunt Caroline,
thank God, did not live on the Crescent.”

It was then that, being fairly sure of his ground, he went to see
Daniels, or Talbot rather. But in the interval Lydia had disappeared,
and Talbot’s room was empty. And Talbot was Lydia’s brother. Herbert
found himself back once more to Lydia as the killer; although there was
a chance that Talbot himself was guilty. If she could admit herself to
the Lancaster house, she could have admitted him also.

Then came Lydia’s disappearance. Herbert had never for a moment believed
that Lydia had been killed. To him it was a plain case of escape, and
escape with sufficient money to last her the rest of her life. But how
had she escaped? He says:

“There was that old bead bag of hers, found over on Euclid Street; and
there was that damned butterfly from her hatpin. Why a hatpin if she
wore no hat? I didn’t believe she left without a hat. She would be too
conspicuous. I suspected that she had a flat hat of some sort in that
box along with the veil, and maybe a transformation too. And on Saturday
morning I asked Lizzie Cromwell to see if all of Mrs. Talbot’s
transformations were in the house. They were not. One was missing, and
Lizzie knew as well as I did what that meant.

“She told Mrs. Talbot and wanted the police notified. But you know your
Crescent! She absolutely refused, and so that afternoon Lizzie simply
packed her valise, put George’s automatic into it, and went after Lydia
herself.”

No one will ever know, I dare say, how Lizzie knew about that house at
Hollytree. But know she did, poor creature; just as she knew from Amanda
on the Monday morning before that someone had washed clothing in the
laundry the night before.

And she found Lydia in the house when she got there. She knew her
danger, and she followed Lydia’s flight to that upper bathroom with
George’s automatic in her hand. When the bathroom door would not lock
things must have looked quite simple to her. She walked in, and Lydia
probably hit her at once with a chair.

However that may be, the one thing we do know is that in some such
manner Lydia got the automatic from her and shot her dead. And that when
her brother came back from burying the money that is what he found.

“What could he do,” Herbert says, “except to give her a chance to
escape? He helped her with the undressing, and to put her own clothing
on the body. And it was he who took the drawers out of the trunk. Right
there, however, I got my clue.

“For you see, my dear, that trunk, once the drawers were out, was large
enough to hold the body. There was no real necessity for—well, for
amputating that head. The only real reason I could see for such an act
was to conceal the identity of the dead woman. The trunk was certain to
be found, but with Lydia Talbot apparently inside of it she was safe. I
tried to tell Briggs that, but he wouldn’t even listen.

“The rest is easy. While they were looking for a black-haired Lizzie, I
was looking for Lydia Talbot, gray-headed and flat-voiced. But I
couldn’t find her, and so I sat down and tried to think what I would do
if I were Lydia Talbot, waiting to make my escape when the time came and
with leisure now to worry about any clues lying around.

“It seemed to me that the album was still the danger point, if as Lydia
I believed my fingerprints were smeared all over it. Suppose on her
disappearance her prints had been found in her room at the Talbot house,
and then some day—long after she had made her escape—someone opened
that album? Can’t you see it? And not only that, but let them be found
and identified, and that desperate expedient of the body in the trunk
would fail of its object. Let her once be identified as the killer, and
she saw the body exhumed and a world-wide search made for her.”

So he believed that she would, sooner or later, make her third attempt
to get at the album. But not even Herbert until the last few hours
suspected her of the audacious method she had used, both to get it and
to hide herself from the police. For what she had done on that Sunday
night was to slip back to the Crescent itself, enter by a basement door
to which she had hidden the key, confront her sister-in-law and tell her
the truth.

She knew her Crescent. Best of all, she knew her sister-in-law: her
horror of scandal, and the fact that she had already learned from Lizzie
Cromwell that Lydia was guilty. She went to Mrs. Talbot, and demanded
sanctuary!

From that night until the night of her capture she had been hidden in
the Talbot house, in that bedroom of hers which had been locked after
her departure. Not even George suspected, or the servants. What her
thoughts were during those long hours no one can know. She must have
seen again and again the horror on her brother’s face when, looking up
from that awful bathtub, she had said:

“I had to do it, John. She knew.”

“Knew what, for God’s sake?”

Some things, however, we do know about her; for Mrs. Talbot’s statement
to the police says that during all the time she was hidden in the house
she was obsessed by only one thing.

“She neither ate nor slept,” she said. “When I went with food at night
she would be sitting by a window in the dark, and all she would talk
about was the album.

“I wanted to get her away, but she refused until she had it. So that
last day I sent George for it. It wasn’t to be found, but later that
night Lou Hall telephoned that it was there, and I told her.

“She slipped out soon after that, but George must have seen her and
followed her. I had not told him she was in the house, but he may have
suspected it. He may have suspected all the rest, too. I know he and
Lizzie Cromwell had a talk on Saturday, before she left.

“That is all I know, except that my son has stayed at his club since
that night, and he seems to feel that I am guilty of something, I hardly
know what. I protected him from her for many years, and I consider that
he is most ungrateful. Especially since she learned from him when he was
a boy that trick of blackening her face.”

For that, as it turned out, had been the secret of her uncanny ability
to get about at night during the three attempts she made to get the
album. With her black clothing and a pair of black gloves she would be
almost invisible on any dark night. Certainly her face was blackened the
night of her capture, and I can understand the taxi driver’s statement
later on:

“I got a look at her with a lightning flash when I caught her. And I was
so scared that I pretty nearly let go!”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Now and then we go back to the Crescent. The Lancaster house is closed,
and Margaret lives in Europe; somewhere in Southern Germany. We hear
that she is about to be married. Jim and Helen are still there, however,
getting along rather better than before, but every now and then the
Daltons’ Joseph gravely announces that “Mrs. Wellington has gone again,
sir.”

The Daltons are the best of friends, and probably rather more than that.
Mother has Aunt Caroline staying with her, and Annie and Mary are back.
They all seem to manage quite well together, and Mother is thinking of
wearing a little mauve this year. But she has never quite forgiven me my
marriage and she left the room abruptly one day when Doctor Armstrong,
tapping cheerfully on his black bag, asked me if I wouldn’t soon want
him to bring a baby in it.

Although we have buried most of our tragedies, there is still one which
survives. In the last house by the gate Mrs. Talbot sits alone; although
George goes out dutifully to the Sunday midday dinner, fried chicken and
ice cream in summer and roast beef and a fruit pie the rest of the year.
He and his father share an apartment downtown, and as an act of pure
justice Margaret has turned over to Mr. Talbot the money recovered from
under the willow trees.

Otherwise the life goes on much as before. On any summer day Eben’s lawn
mower can be heard; children are still taboo on No Man’s Land, Mr.
Dalton still practices short golf shots there, and what Helen called its
smug and deteriorating peace has again settled down on the Crescent.

Nothing has changed, and it is Herbert’s contention that people really
learn nothing after a certain age.

Perhaps that is true. It is certainly a fact that during our last visit
there something went wrong with the gas stove, and that he experimented
with it after his customary fashion. There was a tremendous report, and
Herbert himself was hurled out onto the back porch, almost at my feet.

“Are you hurt?” I asked.

He broke off in the middle of a flow of really awful language to look up
at me.

“Hurt?” he shouted. “I’ve damned near broken my leg.”

Then he saw that I was laughing, and he grinned boyishly.

“Let’s go home, Lou darling,” he said. “Let’s go where Monday doesn’t
have to be wash-day, and nobody ever saw a hatpin, and we can use our
newspapers to start a fire and sit by it, and not to roll the doilies
on. Let’s go!”

And so we went.
