It was the middle of October when Bill Coverdale came back. One year in
South America looking for a big engineering contract for his firm, and
now home again. England felt very good after Chile. London felt good.
The astonishingly fine summer still held. There was a blue sky, a clear
sun, and a light breeze. He was going to see Meg O’Hara. Everything was
very good indeed.

He was walking, because in town you had to get your exercise when you
could, and also because now that he was really going to see Meg again,
he wanted to get himself in hand and be sure of just how he was going to
meet her. You can’t be away for a year without a change in every
relationship. Sometimes absence makes the heart grow fonder, and
sometimes it doesn’t. Mostly it doesn’t. Growth, change, and development
go on. If two people are in constant touch with one another, they adjust
themselves to these changes instinctively, and often without realizing
that there are any adjustments to be made. But a year is a long time to
be away.

Bill Coverdale told himself all these things. He had loved Meg for so
long that he did not believe that he would ever stop loving her, but
when he left England Robin O’Hara was still alive. Now that Meg was a
widow, there was change between them whether she herself had changed or
not. Change between them.... But just what sort of change? What was he
going to be? Just the old friend of the next-door days in the country,
when she was fifteen and he was twenty, and he had begun to love her? Or
was there going to be a chance for him at last? He had stayed her friend
because he would rather have Meg’s friendship than any other woman’s
love. He had stayed her friend for ten years, and then she had married
Robin O’Hara. That meant she was going to want a friend very badly some
day. He wondered whether she had broken her heart when Robin died, or
whether it had been broken before. Meg wouldn’t let anyone know. She’d
keep her head up whatever happened.

He walked up fifty stone steps and rang the bell of Meg’s flat. He felt
a kind of triumphant excitement because the year was over, and he was
here, and Meg was free, and then a sudden black stab of fear lest, in
the night since he had telephoned, something, anything, should have
happened to set them apart again. And with that Meg opened the door.

All the things he had been thinking about went out of his head—change,
fear, triumph, and Robin O’Hara—leaving just Meg, the most dearly
familiar thing in all his world, the most settled, the most stable.

They came through a square yard of passage into the little sitting-room
of the flat. The sun slanted in at the one window and showed how shabby
everything was, but if the furniture and chintzes had been falling to
bits, Bill wouldn’t have noticed them, because he was looking at Meg.
The trouble was that Meg was shabby too. He saw that. He had seen her
pale often enough—far, far too often in the six months before he had
gone away—and he had seen her tired, and had hated Robin O’Hara very
fiercely, but he had never seen Meg shabby before. She had on a
washed-out cotton frock. She was much thinner. There were dark shadows
under her eyes. She was pale and she was tired. He loved her quite
unbearably, but all he did was to hold her hand as if he had forgotten
to let it go, and say,

“What have you been doing to yourself?”

It was Meg who pulled her hand away. She hadn’t any intention of telling
Bill what she had been doing. The last two years had been a nightmare,
but when Bill was there she could wake up—not for long, not altogether,
but just whilst he was there. Solid, darling old Bill. It was just as if
he came crashing into the very middle of the bad dream and broke it
round her. She took a long breath and said,

“Oh, Bill! Lovely to see you! And you’re going to stay—you’re not going
out again?”

“No—I’m going to be here. My uncle’s retiring, and I’m getting his
place on the board.”

“Oh Bill—how nice! And you’re looking splendid. Did you like it out
there?”

“Hated it like poison.”

“Why?”

“I just did. England’s good enough.”

Meg laughed, her own old laugh. It made him love her terribly.

“Bill—how insular! I’d love to travel.”

Bill put that away for future reference. He had an orderly mind. If Meg
wanted to travel, she should. It was going to be his business to see
that she got what she wanted. Always. He looked at her with a frown and
said,

“You didn’t answer my question. What have you been doing to yourself?”

It wasn’t only his question. It is every man’s question, and Meg gave
him every woman’s answer.

“Nothing.”

She thought, quickly and bitterly, “Why do people always say that? You
don’t do these things to yourself.”

Bill was frowning at her.

“You’re pale.”

“It’s been very hot.”

“You’ve got thin.”

“It’s the fashion to be thin.”

Bill went on frowning.

“I don’t like it.”

Meg leaned back in the corner of the sofa. Her dark blue eyes held a
sudden sparkle and there was a little colour in the cheeks that had been
too pale for Bill’s taste. What, after all, had it got to do with Bill?
She said in her sweetest voice—and Meg’s voice could be very sweet—

“I know, darling, I’m looking hideous. But need you rub it in?”

Bill relaxed into a grin.

“Now you’re angry.”

“Well, you _were_ rubbing it in—weren’t you?”

He was grave again, but not frowning now.

“Meg—won’t you tell me what’s the matter?”

Her colour died. The sparkle left her eyes.

“It’s hot—I’m hard up—I’ve had to stay in town. I’m all right, Bill.”

“You don’t look all right. Why are you so hard up?”

“Nothing coming in. I had a job for a bit, but it petered out in July.”

“I thought you’d come in for some money—you wrote and told me you had.”

Meg laughed a little.

“Bill, that was really funny. It was old Cousin Felicia, and she left
quite a lot to be divided up amongst her female cousins, but when they
came to hunt them up, how many do you suppose there were? Fifty-six. So
what I got wasn’t worth writing out to you about, and anyhow I haven’t
got it yet.” (And now he’ll want to lend me money, and if I don’t take
it he’ll be miserable, and if I do—)

The sparkle came back into Meg’s eyes. You can borrow money when you’ve
got it yourself, but if you haven’t any—and no one but Meg knew just
how little she had—why then you begin to lose things that money can’t
buy—pride, courage, and self-respect. Before Bill’s tentative “Meg—”
was well across his lips, she had shaken her head.

“Nothing doing, darling. But I’ll lap up a job if you can find me one. I
can type. I suppose your firm does have typists?”

Mr Coverdale was sharply revolted.

“But look here, Meg, what about the Professor? He can’t know. Have you
told him?”

“Darling Uncle Henry? Have you ever tried to talk to him about money?
Robin did when we were first married. He said it was perfectly
ridiculous Uncle Henry having no relations but me and a flourishing
banking account, and the two things being so to speak insulated. He
thought it would be an awfully good idea for Uncle Henry to give me an
allowance, and when I said I couldn’t ask him he said he’d do it
himself. Well, he did it quite beautifully. We were having tea in the
garden, and honestly, Bill, I thought he was going to pull it off. He
led up to it in his most charming manner, and Uncle Henry sat there
beaming and drinking his tea. He liked Robin when he noticed him, and he
is fond of me—he really is. But just when Robin thought it was all over
except the ‘Henry Postlethwaite’ on the banker’s order, Uncle Henry put
his cup down three inches off the edge of the table and said, still with
that pleased sort of smile and without noticing the crash, ‘Yes, yes, my
dear—and I think if you don’t mind I will leave you to make a note of
it. These trains of thought are very elusive, but Hoppenglocker will be
bound to admit the force of this.’ I took hold of his arm and I said,
‘What are you doing to make a note of, darling?’ He looked over the edge
of his spectacles at me and said, ‘My reply to Hoppenglocker,—but I’m
afraid you wouldn’t understand it, my dear.’ So then I said, ‘Did you
hear what Robin was saying just now?’ and he shook his head and said,
‘No—no—I’m afraid not. Some other time, Margaret,’ and off he went.
And Robin said he did it on purpose, but he didn’t, you know—he’s like
that.”

Bill sat large and immovable. Meg was trying to put him off, but it
wasn’t any use, he wasn’t going to be put off. He would much rather help
Meg himself, but the Professor was the proper person to do it. He was
glad she had mentioned Robin, because Robin had got to be mentioned, but
he wanted to straighten out this business about the Professor first. He
just waited till she had finished and then asked what he had planned to
ask.

“Have you written and told him you’re hard up?”

Meg nodded.

“Yes, I did. He didn’t answer the letter. Bill darling, what’s the good
of looking like that? He doesn’t answer letters—he just doesn’t—and
he’s in the middle of another book.”

“Have you seen him?”

She shook her head.

“No. He’s on his island. I told you he’d bought an island to write this
book on, so that he could get right away and be quiet—no dogs, no motor
horns, no nieces, no anything except a bird or two. You can’t get away
from birds.”

The Professor appeared to be a wash-out, for the moment at any rate. But
Bill was not prepared just to leave it at that. Even the most
absent-minded professor on the most secluded island can be made to
realize his responsibilities. Perseverance would probably be necessary,
but perseverance was one of Bill’s strong suits. The snag was that
perseverance takes time, and meanwhile here was Meg looking as if she
was living on buns and or whatever it was that women did live on when
they were hard up. Something had got to be done about that here and now.
He said abruptly,

“Meg, how much money have you got? Didn’t Robin leave anything? His
affairs must be settled up by now.”

He thought Meg looked at him oddly. Then she looked away. Then she said,

“No—they’re not settled.”

“But the lawyers would advance you something.”

She got up and went to the window. When she moved you could see how thin
she was. The blue dress that had lost most of its colour made her look
like a ghost. Meg used to look so pretty in blue. It wasn’t only the
dress that had lost its colour. She stood with her back to him, and the
sun touched the ends of her dark hair with gold. She looked at the ugly
houses opposite and felt her heart knock against her side. It would be
better if Bill went away, but she couldn’t make him go. She said with an
effort,

“Bill—who told you about Robin?”

Bill Coverdale had turned in his chair and was watching her. He was
wondering if she was broken-hearted about Robin O’Hara. It didn’t seem
possible, but you never could tell. She had married the fellow. He
answered her with a puzzled note in his voice.

“Garratt wrote and told me.”

“What did Colonel Garratt say?”

Quite impossible to tell Meg what Garratt had really said. Garratt
didn’t mince his words, and he didn’t like O’Hara. A free translation
was necessary.

“He said Robin had taken on a dangerous job, and when he didn’t turn up,
they were afraid something had happened. And then—”

“Go on.”

Bill didn’t go on.

“Please, Bill—I want to know what he said.”

“Well, he said that a body had been found in the river, and that there
wasn’t any doubt—”

“And then you wrote to me. It was a very nice letter.”

“You didn’t answer it,” said Bill Coverdale.

“And so you wrote again!”

“And you didn’t answer that.”

“I don’t think Robin’s dead,” said Meg O’Hara.




                                   II


As soon as she had spoken, Meg turned round. She had said it, and saying
it had broken something. It had been terribly hard to say. It had taken
every bit of her strength, and now that it was said she felt weak and
shaken. She came back to the sofa and sat down on it, leaning forward
with her elbows on her knees and her chin in her hands.

Bill was looking at her in a shocked, incredulous manner.

“Meg, what do you mean? Garratt said there wasn’t the slightest doubt.”

Her mouth twitched a little. She made no reply.

“Garratt said his wallet was found in the river.”

She said, “Yes—”

Bill got up and began to walk about the room.

“But what makes you think—Garratt said—”

Meg lifted her lids as if they were heavy, looked at him for a moment,
and then looked down again. It was a hurting, wounding look. It set Bill
a long way off, beside Garratt who talked about things of which he had
no knowledge. Colonel Garratt, the efficient head of the Foreign Office
Intelligence, might have been grimly amused. Bill Coverdale was sharply
hurt, and, being hurt he was angry. He said, with the warmth of that
anger in his voice,

“I’d better go—you don’t want me!”

And with that Meg lifted her eyes again. The wounding look had gone.
They were the eyes of a child afraid in the night. The blue of the iris
was almost swamped. They were black with fear. If Bill went away and
didn’t come back, the nightmare would close down again. She put out her
hand as if she would hold him. But there was no need for that. The fear
in her eyes wiped his anger away. He took her hand and kissed it gently.

“Meg—what’s the matter?” And his voice was gentle too.

Meg O’Hara drew a long breath.

“I thought he was dead—”

“And why don’t you think so now?”

She said, “I’ll tell you, but you must sit down. I want to tell you,
Bill.”

He had been holding her hand, and now he let it go and came back to the
shabby armchair which faced the sofa. The pattern on the chintz had been
a winding stem entwined with peonies and pomegranates. There had been
little blue birds amongst the branching fruits, but the peonies were
drab and the birds were grey, and all the colour and the bloom was gone.
Meg sat there as colourless. The hand which he had kissed was in her
lap. The other hand covered it in a straining grip. She said,

“I did write to you.”

“I never got it.”

“No—I tore it up. I wrote three letters. I tore them all up.”

“Why?”

“I’m going to tell you. It isn’t easy, but I can’t go on—I must tell
someone.” She looked at him for a moment, a quick frightened look that
glanced from his and was veiled by the down-dropped lids. She said,
“It’s so difficult,” and her voice had an exhausted sound.

Bill held himself where he was. What had been happening whilst he was
away? Whatever it was, he had got to know. He said,

“Meg, do tell me. What is there that’s so difficult? if you mean you
weren’t happy with Robin, I knew that all along.”

She took this with a kind of shock of relief. Then she drew a long
breath and said,

“_Happy?_”

So it had been as bad as that.... His little Meg—his darling little
Meg.... He was physically incapable of speaking for the moment, and Meg
went on:

“I _can’t_ talk about it—but if I don’t, you won’t understand; besides,
some of it must have been my fault. If I knew whether he was dead or
not, it would be easier.”

Bill sat there big and solid. He said in a rough, commonsense voice,

“I don’t see what that’s got to do with it. If he didn’t treat you
properly, he didn’t.”

Meg looked up for a moment.

“He didn’t beat me—it wasn’t anything like that. It was partly my
fault. I’m stupid—it’s easy to hurt me—” She stopped suddenly because
she couldn’t go on. By some horrible illusion it wasn’t Bill sitting
there, with his big frame, fair hair, and rugged features, but Robin
O’Hara, dark and slim, with the air of charm which had stolen her heart
and the bright cruelty which had broken it. The eyes smiled behind their
black lashes—beautiful grey Irish eyes, looking at her as if he loved
her, whilst he stabbed with bitter words. He had known just how to strip
her of her defences and strike suddenly and deep. He had known how to
betray her lightly with a kiss. But how could she tell Bill these
things? She couldn’t. With an effort she controlled the trembling of her
body, but her mind shrank and all her thoughts were quivering with pain.
She said in a small quiet voice,

“No, we weren’t happy. Just at first—” Just at first she had been in a
fool’s paradise and had taken it for the truth. Just at first Robin had
been the dream lover of the most beautiful dream in the world—just at
first.... She went on as soon as she could. “It’s difficult. He thought
Uncle Henry would give me an allowance. I can see his point of view. I
was living in the house—like a daughter—there was lots of money. He
thought it would come to me—some of it at once, the rest later. I
suppose it was natural if you didn’t know Uncle Henry. When I told him,
Uncle Henry would leave all his money for research work, and that that
was all money meant to him, research, it—I think it was a most awful
shock. I’d got so used to Uncle Henry’s point of view that I never
thought about it. I’ve tried awfully hard to be fair, and I think some
of it was my fault because I didn’t explain, and some of it was his
because he took too much for granted.”

Bill clenched his hands. Meg wouldn’t talk if he let fly. If she didn’t
talk, he couldn’t help her. But to sit there and hear her blame herself
because that swine O’Hara had been a disappointed fortune-hunter took
every bit of his self-control. He said,

“Go on.”

If Meg looked at him—But she didn’t. She looked down at her own clasped
hands.

“It got worse and worse. I was stupid—I minded—too much. I hadn’t
anyone to talk to. Uncle Henry went off to his island. You went to South
America. Then I told Robin I couldn’t go on. I said I would divorce
him—” Her voice just left off.

“When was that?” said Bill.

“This time last year, just before—Bill, it was the day before—”

“How did he take it?”

“I don’t know.”

He laughed.

She stopped, because Robin’s laughter rang in her ears. He had seemed
amused, and then there had been a sudden flare of anger—“You’ll do
nothing of the sort! Do you hear? When I want a divorce I’ll let you
know!” And then he had laughed again, and tipped up her chin and kissed
her with a sort of hard mockery. Then, just at the door, he had turned
and flung her his farewell. “Perhaps you’ll be saved the trouble,” he
had said, and was gone. And that was the last touch and the last word
she had had from Robin O’Hara.

She left the touch alone, but she told Bill about the words, her voice
halting on the syllables and ceasing when she had said “trouble.” It was
trouble he had brought her, and it was the last of all the words that he
had had for her.

After a time she said suddenly, “Letters kept coming for him. Then
Colonel Garratt rang up. I said I didn’t know where he was, and he said
they didn’t know either. I went to see him, and he asked me if Robin had
told me what he was doing. I said no, he never talked about his work.
Then Colonel Garratt said Robin’s job wasn’t a dangerous one, but he
thought he’d been working a line of his own, and that it might have
taken him up against very dangerous people. He said they would make
inquiries. A week later they found his wallet in the river. It was quite
empty. Colonel Garratt said I ought to be prepared—they thought
something had happened to Robin. In December—there was a body—they
thought—was his. I thought he was dead.”

“Garratt wrote to me in December.”

Grim details about an unrecognizable corpse had been Garratt’s idea of a
Christmas letter.

“I thought he was dead,” said Meg again.

“And what made you think he wasn’t?”

She lifted her hand to her cheek and leaned on it. The worst part was
over.

“Colonel Garratt said I ought to see a lawyer and get leave to presume
death. There wasn’t any will. There was a little money in the bank, but
there was a packet of some sort labelled ‘To be opened by my wife in
case of my death.’”

Bill exclaimed.

“I think it’s only papers. They wouldn’t let me see it or anything. He
had only brought it in the week before. The manager said he must have
legal proof that Robin was dead before he could hand it over. I don’t
suppose it’s anything that matters. It can’t be money, because he was
always saying how hard up he was.”

It sounded off to Bill. But then O’Hara was just the sort of fellow to
do an odd thing like that. He said with a frown,

“Did you see a lawyer?”

Meg’s hand went down again. She said,

“No.”

“Why didn’t you?”

“Because that’s when I began to think Robin wasn’t dead.”

“Why?”

“Things began to happen.”

“What things?”

“Little things—they frightened me. It’s so dreadful not to be sure.
It’s so dreadful to think that there’s someone who wants to keep you
like that—not sure—never knowing.”

Her hands were twisting in her lap, fingers interlocked and knuckles
white. Bill leaned forward and put his own hand over them, a big, warm
hand.

“Steady, Meg. Just go on telling me what happened.”

She didn’t speak at once. A minute dragged by. He wondered what she was
going to say. He took his hand away and leaned back, and as if that had
been a signal, Meg said,

“The first thing was a newspaper. Someone must have put it in the
letter-box. I found it on the floor when I got up.”

The bitter cold of that January morning came back as she spoke. Her feet
were as cold as they had been bare on the linoleum and she had stopped
to pick the paper up. It wasn’t a paper she had ever taken. She told
Bill that, and was glad to have something that was easy to say.

“It wasn’t a paper I’d ever had before. It hadn’t come through the post.
I thought it had been left by mistake. It was folded inside out. I
thought that was funny. Then I saw some of the letters were underlined.
No, that’s wrong—they weren’t underlined—they had lines drawn round
them. I couldn’t help putting the marked letters together. The first one
was an I. After that an A and an M, and then A L I V E.”

The giddiness that had come over her then just touched her now. She
heard Bill say:

“What paper was it?”

“The _Daily Sketch_.”

“What did you do?”

“I went to Colonel Garratt. He said he thought it was a hoax. He said he
was quite sure Robin was dead. He looked—odd. Afterwards I
thought—Bill, it was rather horrid, but I thought he believed I’d done
it myself.”

“Why?”

“I don’t know. He said he’d go into it, but I believe that’s what he
thought. I didn’t know what to think. I couldn’t believe anyone would do
a thing like that—as a joke, but if it was really Robin there didn’t
seem to be any point in it. I mean he could have written or telephoned.
Someone must have put the paper in at my letter-box. The person who did
that could have put in a note. Colonel Garratt said all those things,
and they were true—” She stopped suddenly. Impossible to say what had
been in her mind all through, but it might have been Robin, for Robin
was cruel enough to play a trick like that. She didn’t know anyone else
who would be so cruel. But she couldn’t say that to Bill.

“Did you keep the paper?”

She nodded.

“Yes—but—” She looked at him suddenly with a steady mournful look.
“That was the first thing that happened. I didn’t tell Colonel Garratt
about the other things—I didn’t tell anyone—I couldn’t. I was afraid
they would think I was mad.”

“You had better tell me,” said Bill Coverdale.

“In February I wrote to Uncle Henry. His secretary wrote back and said
he wouldn’t be attending to any personal letters until he had finished
his book.”

“Has he got the same secretary? She was a Miss Wallace, wasn’t she?”

“No—she got ill. It was before you went, I think. It’s a new
woman—sandy hair and spectacles, and a sort of fussy white mouse
manner. I shouldn’t have thought he’d have stood her for a month, but
she seems to have dug herself in. I expect she’s efficient. Her name’s
Cannock. Well, after that I knew Uncle Henry was a wash-out, so I
thought I’d better go and see the lawyer. He was Uncle Henry’s lawyer,
Mr Pincott. I rang up to make an appointment. I’d got a job then, so I
was out all day. When I got home someone had been in the flat. Nothing
was missing, and everything was quite tidy, but—Bill, you won’t think
me mad, will you?—someone had taken my scissors and a sheet of
writing-paper, and they’d cut the paper in strips and laid them out on
the floor to make letters. They were all across the
hearth-rug—A—L—I—V—E, in capital letters about two inches high.”

“You ought to have told Garratt.”

“I couldn’t—I was frightened. It frightened me in a queer sort of way,
because how could anyone have got into the flat? It frightened me
dreadfully. You see, Robin had a key and I had a key. Someone had put
those letters out like that. If it wasn’t Robin, it was I.”

“Don’t talk nonsense,” said Bill Coverdale.

She looked down and said in a quick fluttering voice,

“It mightn’t be—nonsense. People do things—like that—and forget. I
might have done it.”

“I’m quite sure you didn’t.”

“Then it was Robin.”

Bill shook his head.

“That doesn’t follow. Someone might have pinched his key.”

Meg looked up for a moment. He had a glimpse of her fear.

“It wouldn’t matter to anyone except Robin whether I thought he was
alive or not.”

Bill shook his head again.

“It might. You don’t know what’s behind all this. Until you do you can’t
say what matters and what doesn’t. Well, that was in February. You
said—other things. What else happened?”

“There wasn’t anything else for a long time. Then I lost my job, and—I
thought I had better go and see Mr Pincott after all.”

“You hadn’t been?”

“No.”

“Not at all? You said you had an appointment.”

She was very pale. She shook her head.

“No—I didn’t go. I wrote and said my plans were changed.”

“Why? You ought to have gone.”

“I thought Robin was alive,” said Meg.

“If he was alive, what was he living on?”

“I don’t know. He had money. I don’t know where it came from.”

Bill groaned.

“Go on.”

“I lost my job in July. I wrote to Uncle Henry again. Miss Cannock wrote
back and said he sent me his love, and he was very busy and he hoped to
finish the book within the year, and that then he would look forward to
seeing me. I felt desperate, so I screwed myself up to go and see Mr
Pincott. I didn’t make an appointment—I just thought I’d go. And then
something happened. When I took the post in—the first morning
delivery—there was an envelope without any address on it. It was in the
letter-box with the other letters. There was a letter from you, and two
bills, and this envelope. It was Hieratica Bond, like I use myself, and
there wasn’t anything on it, but it was stuck down. I opened it, and at
first I thought it was empty, and then I saw it wasn’t. There was a leaf
inside, a maple leaf, and there was something pricked on it—little
holes pricked right through in a pattern. I held it up to the light, and
it wasn’t a pattern, it was letters—the same letters as before,
A—L—I—V—E.”

Bill sat forward with a jerk.

“_A leaf?_”

Meg struck her hands together sharply. A faint flush came into her face.
Her eyes were afraid.

“There—you don’t believe me! And you want to know why I didn’t go to
Colonel Garratt!”

“Meg, I didn’t say—”

“No, you didn’t _say_ I was making it up!” She was angry for a moment,
but she couldn’t go on being angry. She had been unhappy too long.

“Oh, Bill darling, I don’t blame you a bit. I couldn’t believe it myself
if it hadn’t happened. I don’t always believe it now. It’s too like the
horrid sort of thing that happens in a dream, and sometimes I think I
must have dreamt it all.”

Bill hesitated and then plunged.

“Are you quite sure you didn’t?”

She turned her head away.

“I—don’t—know.” Then all at once she turned back again. “No, Bill,
that’s not true. When it’s really _me_ thinking, I do know. I know that
these things happened. Someone put that marked paper in at the door, and
someone came in here and put those letters on the hearth-rug, and
someone slipped that blank envelope in among my letters. But when I’m
tired, or I’ve been looking for a job all day, or when I wake up at
about four in the morning, it’s like other people talking in my head,
and then I’m not sure about anything.”

Bill had been wanting to put his arms round her for ten years. At this
moment the longing to comfort her became almost unendurable. Yet if he
was to help Meg, he had got to endure it. If he failed her, she would
have no one to help her at all.

It was a pity that feelings of such a chivalrous nature should have made
him look so cross. Instead of kissing Meg he frowned at her and said in
a very abrupt voice,

“Have you got the envelope?”

It appeared that she hadn’t.

“I didn’t keep it. There wasn’t anything to keep it for. It might have
been one of my own envelopes—I use that sort. It might have been
anybody’s envelope. It didn’t prove a thing.”

“And the leaf?” said Bill.

Meg threw out a hand.

“It shrivelled right up. What was the good of keeping it?”

“You didn’t?”

“No.”

It made it easier—to feel really exasperated with Meg. Bill felt
genuinely exasperated. Ten thousand to one she’d got drawers full of
hoarded rubbish. But she hadn’t kept the envelope with what might or
might not have been a message from Robin O’Hara!

He said in a patient voice, “I’d like to look at that _Daily
Sketch_—the one with the first message, the marked letters.”

Meg grew a shade paler.

“You can’t. I was going to tell you—it’s gone.”

“You said you kept it.”

“Yes, I kept it. I put it in my writing-table drawer. It’s gone.”

“Where did it go?”

“The day I found the letters on the hearth-rug. I opened the drawer, and
it was gone.”

“You’re sure?”

“Quite sure.”

“Do you mind if I have a look? Papers get caught up at the back of a
drawer sometimes.”

“This one didn’t. But look if you like.”

Bill looked very thoroughly. He took the drawer out of the table and
examined the grooves in which it ran, and then he took everything out of
the drawer itself. The dozen letters he had written to Meg from Chile
were there. She had kept them, even if she hadn’t answered them.

There were a great many other things, like stray ends of string, old
theatre programmes, bills, notes, and half sheets of paper. There were
three fountain-pen fillers. There was about an inch of yellow pencil
which looked as if it had been gnawed by a mouse. Meg always bit her
pencils to the bone.

Bill dropped the horrid little end into the waste-paper basket, from
which she at once rescued it.

“Bill, I’m not a millionaire—I can’t afford to throw away perfectly
good pencils!”

“I’ll give you another.” He produced one from his pocket as he spoke,
brand new, with a shining tin protector and an india-rubber cap. “Chuck
that beastly gnawed thing away! And what about these bills?”

Meg smiled a little bitterly.

“You might as well chuck them away too.”

“They’re not paid?”

“Darling Bill!”

He put them in a neat pile. Most of the notes got torn up. He put
everything in neat piles. Just before he pushed the drawer home he
picked up one of the half sheets of paper.

“Was this what was used for the letters?”

Meg nodded.

“Then whoever did it opened this drawer, and when it was open he saw the
_Daily Sketch_ and pinched it.”

“Or he might have been looking for it. If it was Robin, he would know
where to look.”

Bill shut the drawer with a bang.

“If it was Robin, what was he playing at?”

Meg winced. She said,

“I don’t know. Thanks for tidying my drawer. I just wait till it bulges,
and then have an awful clearance, and generally find I’ve thrown away my
stamps, or a letter that has simply got to be answered, or a postal
order or something.”

“Why should anyone take that paper?” said Bill.

“Perhaps someone thought it was safer not to leave it here. Perhaps
Robin thought so.”

“It can’t be Robin!” said Bill violently.

“It might be,” said Meg O’Hara.




                                  III


Bill Coverdale stretched his long legs and laid his head back against
the shabby back of a large and shapeless chair. A spring bulged under
the splayed seat and the stuffing was coming through on the arms. There
was a loose spiral of horsehair quite close to the large left hand which
lay spread out, mahogany brown, on what had once been crimson leather.
Bill had rather an out-size in hands, not a bad shape, but large and
decidedly battered. He looked at the window and saw a narrow strip of
blue sky—a good colour English blue sky—and then all the rest of the
pane a glare of new concrete patched with innumerable blank even
windows, all very modern, light, and airy, and a great improvement on
the low dingy houses which this great block of flats had replaced since
last Bill Coverdale had stretched himself out in Colonel Garratt’s
shabby chair and stared out of that window.

Garratt jerked into the picture with an arm thrust between him and the
concrete.

“Admiring my view?” he said, and laughed his short barking laugh.

“Very soothing,” said Mr William Coverdale. “You can put yourself to
sleep counting windows instead of sheep.”

Garratt walked to the window and stood looking out. His little steely
eyes dwelt upon the block of flats with malignant dislike. His short
grizzled hair stood up all over his head like a ten days’ beard. He
wore, as usual, the sort of clothes that make you wonder why any tailor
capable of perpetrating them should have escaped being lynched. No one
knew the man’s name. He remained anonymous, and under the shelter of
this anonymity he had for twenty-five years abetted Garratt in every
kind of sartorial outrage. A mustard tweed and a pink-checked suiting
are still remembered at the Foreign Office. This afternoon the crime was
a purplish West of England tweed with a green line in it. The pockets
bulged—Garratt’s pockets always bulged. The invariable red bandanna
trailed a flaming four inches or so from the most crowded pocket of all,
which had to accommodate, beside the handkerchief, matches and a pipe, a
tobacco-pouch, and a bunch of keys. The colour scheme thus brightening
the view was completed by a school or club tie of unknown origin
combining a cheerful royal blue with orange zigzags and a device
suggestive of squashed earwigs.

Bill Coverdale looked, wondered, and averted his eyes.

Garratt turned back to the room with a jerk.

“First you pull everything down. Then you build it up. Then you pull it
down again.” He grimaced. “Makes a bit of mess. Dangerous when the
bricks begin to fall.”

Bill did not say anything for about half a minute. What he said then
might or might not have been irrelevant. He was twisting the spiral of
horsehair between the finger with the white slashed scar across the
knuckle and the thumb which still wore a strip of sticking-plaster. He
said, looking at the black stubborn twist of the horsehair,

“What about O’Hara? Did you ever find out what happened?”

Garratt frowned. When he frowned, he was quite hideous.

“O’Hara? They got him. Dead. A year ago.”

Bill wound the horsehair slowly round the finger with the scar. When the
black had crossed the white three times, he said,

“Is he dead? Are you sure?”

“Sure? Of course I’m sure! Why? What’s eating you?”

“Mrs O’Hara doesn’t seem sure,” said Bill slowly.

Garratt’s voice became furious.

“You been seeing her? What does she say?”

Bill pulled the horsehair tight over the scar. By pulling it very tight
he could make it go round a fourth time. He said,

“Yes, I’ve seen her. We’ve known each other a long time. She isn’t
sure.” The horsehair broke and he shook it off on to the floor. “Look
here, Garratt—what happened?”

Garratt shrugged—not the neat French lift of the shoulders, but a
sideways jerk which was all his own.

“Knife in the back. Sandbag.” He shrugged again. “I wasn’t there. They
got him somehow.”

“He was on a job?”

Garratt nodded.

“What job? Where?”

“What’s the good of digging it up?”

“I want to know. I _want_ to know, Garratt.”

Garratt sat down on the arm of a chair, thrust his hands into his
pockets, and swung a restless leg.

“Some people want to know everything!”

Bill nodded. Except for the play of finger and thumb he had not moved
till now. His attitude was one of repose, but to those steel-pointed
eyes of Garratt’s the stillness of the long frame was the immobility of
control and not of relaxation. He wasn’t moving, because he wasn’t
letting himself move. He was holding his muscles from movement, and he
was holding his voice from expression. Only when he had said, “I _want_
to know,” there was a sudden heavy weight upon the word.

Garratt stared at him and said, “Why?”

“Because I do.”

There was a short pause. Then Garratt laughed.

“All right, you can have it! It’s damn little. You know what O’Hara was
like. Brilliant in spots. Erratic all the time. Close as a clam.” He
shrugged. “You can’t run intelligence work by rule of thumb, but
O’Hara—” He shrugged again with that jerking movement of the shoulder.
“I can do with a man being a law to himself, but O’Hara wasn’t that. He
was a series of revolutionary outbreaks. Bound to come to grief sooner
or later.”

“What was he doing when he came to grief? How did he come to grief? And
how do you know he came to grief?” There was a little break between each
of the three questions, but there was no break in the pertinacity of
Bill Coverdale’s manner.

“I told you he was on a job,” growled Garratt. “And if you want to know
what the job was, you’ll have to want, because I don’t know myself.
Here’s the whole bag of tricks, and you can make what you like of it.
The Foreign Office Intelligence don’t touch crime _qua_ crime, but when
crime slops over into politics, or politics slops over into crime, it’s
our job. International crime is always on the look-out for a chance to
exploit international politics. That was the Vulture’s[1] stunt. We got
him, but we didn’t get the people who worked the show under him. One of
them’s a damned clever woman, and she slipped through our hands. We got
one of the men the other day, but the show’s still running. O’Hara
picked up the trail of the people who are running it in this country. At
least that’s what I think. Officially he was doing something else, but
last time I saw him he dropped a hint and then shut up. Nothing more out
of him but ‘Wait and see.’ But he was on to something. Something big.
Bit too big. It smashed him. If he’d had the sense to tell me what he’d
got on to, we might have made a haul. As it was, they got him, and they
got away with it.”

“Mrs O’Hara doesn’t think he’s dead.”

Garratt kicked the leg of his chair.

“She doesn’t, doesn’t she?”

“She came to see you?”

“She came to see me,” said Garratt. “And she told me a cock and bull
story about someone having put a marked newspaper in at her
letter-box—letters with ink circles round them, spelling ‘I am alive’
or some flapdoodle of that sort!”

“Why should it be flapdoodle?”

“The answer to why is because,” said Garratt. He laughed rudely. “My
good Bill, what would be the point of O’Hara sending his wife that sort
of tripe?”

Bill kept his temper. Garratt was an offensive brute, but he was used to
him. He was a cousin in some seventeenth or eighteenth degree. He was an
old friend and a good friend, but he had never had any manners.

“She says that herself,” he remarked.

“Then it’s the first sensible thing I’ve ever heard her say. There
couldn’t possibly be any point about it. It was either a hoax, or she’d
had a go of hysterics and done it herself.”

Bill shook his head.

“I don’t think so. I’ve known Meg a long time—she’s not like that. Now
look here, Garratt, you won’t believe what I’m going to tell you, but
I’m going to say it all the same. You shan’t say afterwards that you
were kept in the dark.”

“All right, go ahead.” Colonel Garratt’s little eyes were intent.

Bill told him about the letters on Meg’s hearth-rug—chopped up pieces
of writing-paper to make the word “Alive.”

Garratt said nothing. He jingled the contents of his pocket and lifted
his eyebrows, but he said nothing.

Bill told him about the blank envelope which had contained a maple leaf
with the word “Alive” pricked out on it.

Garratt’s eyebrows came down and he stopped jingling. He said,

“The girl’s batty!”

Bill wasn’t angry. It wasn’t any good being angry with Garratt. He said,

“No, she isn’t,” and left it at that.

“All right,” said Garratt, “trot out the exhibits—_Daily Sketch_, bits
of notepaper, blank envelope, dead leaf. I suppose the leaf’s dead if
O’Hara isn’t.”

Bill smiled quite cheerfully. There had been a certain amount of thin
ice about. Now that Garratt had smashed it, things felt more
comfortable.

“There aren’t any exhibits. Meg put the _Daily Sketch_ in a drawer—her
writing-table drawer—but it went missing the day she found the letters
on the hearth-rug. The paper that had been used for them was in the same
drawer.”

“And someone broke in and burgled the leaf, I suppose!” Garratt made a
face. “This what you call evidence? It’s sheer lunacy!”

“O’Hara was an odd chap,” said Bill slowly.

Garratt got there in a flash.

“You mean he might be playing cat-and-mouse with her. What terms were
they on?”

Bill didn’t answer that at once. Then he said,

“You’d better know just where we are. I’ve cared for Meg for ten years.
She’s never cared for me. She married O’Hara. He made her damned
unhappy. Now she doesn’t know whether she’s free or not. He was a cruel
devil—it would be like him to keep her like that, not knowing.”

Garratt jingled his keys. “It might be.... O’Hara was like that.”

Bill went on speaking.

“It’s an abominable position. She can’t even get probate.”

There was something sticking in his mind about those papers in the bank.
No, it was a packet of some sort. Meg didn’t know if there were papers
in it, she only thought there might be. He didn’t know why they stuck in
his mind, but they did.

Garratt grinned.

“Do you expect me to believe that O’Hara had anything to leave? I
suppose she wants to be sure she’s a widow. She was a fool to marry
him—but women are fools, especially girls. Now look here,
Bill—O’Hara’s dead. I told her so when she came to see me. He’s dead,
and he’ll stay dead. The body they got out of the river in December was
his all right. Stripped—and ordinary identification impossible, but
there had been an old break of the right leg. I happen to know O’Hara
broke that leg about five years ago. We didn’t identify him at the
inquest because it didn’t suit our book. We were still hoping to pick up
the trail he was on. We most particularly didn’t want any headlines in
the papers. What Mrs O’Hara wants to do is to go and see her lawyer and
get leave to presume death. We’ll back her up—now. There needn’t be any
publicity. Tell her to see her lawyer at once. All this about letters,
and leaves, and snips of paper is either a hoax, or it’s hysterics.
O’Hara’s as dead as Julius Caesar—she needn’t worry.”

He got up, went over to the other side of the room, clattered at a
drawer, and came back with an untidy note-book in his hand. He sat down
again on the arm of the chair and flicked at the crumpled pages.

“Here you are—October ’33. First entry about O’Hara on the 3rd. He was
due to report, and he didn’t report.... October 4th—rang up Mrs O’Hara.
O’Hara missing. She wanted to know where he was. So did we. We gave it
another forty-eight hours, and then we began to make enquiries. Nobody
had seen O’Hara since eight o’clock on the evening of the 1st, when he
walked out of his flat. Nobody’d seen him. Nobody’d heard from him. He
never turned up, and he never will.” He shut the note-book with a snap.
“You tell Mrs O’Hara to see her lawyer and get on with it!”

Bill Coverdale was sitting up.

“You say nobody saw O’Hara after the first of October?”

“One Oct: thirty-three,” said Garratt laconically.

“Well—I saw him.”

“You?”

“I. And I can fix the date, because I sailed for South America next day,
and I sailed on the fifth.”

“You’re sure of that?”

“Dead sure. But you can verify it if you want to.”

Garratt fished a pencil out of his pocket and sucked the end of it.

“All right, if you’re sure. You saw O’Hara on the fourth. That’s four
days after anyone else did. Where did you see him? What was he doing?
Who was he with?”

“He was in a taxi,” said Bill Coverdale. “It was somewhere short of
midnight, because my train was a bit late, and it was due at eleven.”

“Where were you coming from?”

“King’s Cross. I’d been up north, and I’d run it fine, so I was in a
hurry. I was sailing the next day. I was held up at a crossing, and I
saw O’Hara go by in a taxi. I didn’t think anything about it at the
time, and barring that it was somewhere between King’s Cross and
Piccadilly Circus I can’t say where the hold-up was. I just didn’t think
anything about it.”

Garratt scribbled in his note-book.

“You’re sure it was O’Hara?”

Bill nodded.

“Oh, yes, it was O’Hara.”

“And it was a taxi, not a private car?”

Bill shut his eyes for a moment.

“Yes, it was a taxi—one of those green ones.”

Garratt scribbled again.

“You’re twelve months after the fair. We might have got on to the taxi
if we’d known at the time. Was he alone?”

Bill Coverdale got up and walked to the window. Like Garratt he frowned
at the hygienic flats, but unlike Garratt he did not see the bright
blank windows or the staring concrete. He saw O’Hara in a taxi at
midnight—O’Hara with every feature clear and distinct, and beyond him,
close at his shoulder, a woman. The anger which he had felt then swept
over him again. To have Meg for his wife, and to go chasing off with
that sort of girl! He tried to visualize her and failed.... Yet he had
had the impression that she was that sort of girl. There must have been
something to give him that impression.

Garratt repeated his question impatiently.

“Was he alone?”

And with that Bill turned back to the room again.

“No, he wasn’t. There was a girl with him.”

“See her face?”

“I suppose I did. I can’t describe her.”

“You’re being damn useful!” said Garratt with a growl in his voice. “All
this is about as much use as a sick headache. You’re sure there was a
girl?”

“Yes, I’m sure of that.”

“You wouldn’t know her again, or anything like that?”

Bill was half turned away. He was frowning deeply. Behind that
impression of his there must be something if he could only get hold of
it. He said without knowing what he was going to say,

“I never said I wouldn’t know her again.”

-----

[1] See _Danger Calling_.




                                   IV


Bill Coverdale walked back to his hotel. It seemed pretty fairly certain
that O’Hara had been dead for the best part of a year. That being the
case, the next thing to do was to follow Garratt’s advice and take any
steps that were necessary to get O’Hara pronounced dead legally. Garratt
seemed to think there wouldn’t be any trouble about it.

He began to wonder how soon he could ask Meg to marry him. He wanted to
take care of her. He wanted to give her things. He wanted to take her
out of London. He had a picture in his mind of an open car, and himself
and Meg, and the luggage in behind, and nothing to stop them going
anywhere they chose. October could do some pretty good weather for
touring when it gave its mind to it, and the weather this year seemed to
have got into the habit of being fine. They could go to Scotland. They
could go to Wales. They could go to Cornwall. They could go anywhere
they chose.

Bill indulged this dream for a little, and then woke coldly. He hadn’t
had the faintest reason to suppose that Meg would marry him. Why should
she? “She wants looking after. She’s never wanted you to look after her.
If she had, she wouldn’t have married O’Hara. If she had, she’d have
married you five years ago.” That was when he had first asked her—on
her twentieth birthday. He hadn’t asked her before because she was so
young and it didn’t seem fair, but lots of girls married at twenty. Meg
had just laughed at him.

“Bill darling—how silly! I know you much, much, _much_ too well, and
I’m much, much, _much_ too fond of you. I don’t want to marry for ages
and ages, but when I do, I expect it’ll be someone I don’t know a bit,
so that I’ll have all the thrill of being an explorer—you know, the ‘I
was the first that ever burst into that silent sea’ sort of feeling.”

“You wouldn’t be,” Bill had said with sturdy common sense.

“I don’t suppose anyone ever is, but it’s a most thrilling romantic
feeling.”

“And I’m not romantic.”

“Darling angel, how could you be? I’ve known you since I was fifteen.”

That had always been the burden of it—she knew him too well, and she
liked him too much. And she married Robin O’Hara whom she did not know
at all.

Bill walked, frowning, into a telephone-box and dialled in. Presently
Meg’s voice came along the wire.

“Yes—who is it?”

“Bill,” said Bill Coverdale.

“Oh—hullo, Bill!” Her voice, which had been a little breathless,
sounded pleased.

“I want you to dine with me.”

“I don’t think—”

“You don’t need to think—I’m doing the thinking. Where would you like
to go? I thought about the Luxe.”

“Bill, I _really_ don’t think—”

“I thought we might do a theatre. What have you seen?”

“Nothing.”

“All right, I’ll call for you at a quarter to seven.”

“Bill, I haven’t got any clothes.”

“Well, the best people don’t seem to be wearing them much.”

“You don’t mind if I’m terribly out of date?”

“I’ll bear up, I expect. Quarter to seven, Meg.” He rang off.

He was rather pleased with himself because he had resisted the
temptation to tell her that it didn’t matter what she wore, because she
always looked nicer than anyone else anyhow. It didn’t do to say that
sort of thing if you could help it. You might feel like a door-mat, but
so sure as you let a girl know it, she started walking all over you. Meg
would be much more likely to marry him if he kept his end up. From which
it will be perceived that that devout lover Mr William Coverdale was not
without a spice of the serpent’s wisdom.

Meg hung up the receiver. She ought to have said no, but it was such
ages since she had been out anywhere—such ages, and ages, and ages. It
would be nice to dine with Bill, nice to get out of the flat, and very,
very nice not to have bread and margarine for supper. Last week there
had been cheese, but now there was so little money left that it was
bread and margarine, and scraps at that, with the tea-leaves saved from
breakfast to make something you could pretend was a cup of tea. Of
course she ought to have given up her telephone the minute she lost her
job, but it seemed like the last link with her friends. Only everyone
had been away holiday making, so it hadn’t really been much good after
all, and now that people were coming back again, the telephone would
have to go, and she would have to sell something to pay the quarter’s
rent and the calls she had had.

She pushed all that away. She was going to dine at the Luxe and go to a
theatre. The question was, what was she going to wear? She hadn’t
anything that was less than two years old. It was two years and a month
since she had married Robin O’Hara, and it hadn’t run to any new clothes
since then.

She went into her bedroom, opened the wardrobe door, and stood there
considering.... Not her wedding dress. She had worn it many times since,
but looking at it now, all those other times faded away....

For better, for worse—for richer, for poorer....

The better and the richer had faded out in the first month, leaving her
only the worse and the poorer part.

No, not her wedding dress.

There wasn’t much choice really. She had never liked the pink lace. Pink
wasn’t her colour, but Robin had said he thought he would like her in
pink. And then when she wore it, he had stared at her coldly and told
her she was losing her looks. No, she certainly wasn’t going to wear the
pink.

It would have to be the black georgette. She put it on, and thought it
didn’t look so bad. Uncle Henry had given her a cheque, and it had cost
a lot two years ago. Meg looked at herself in the glass, and thought she
was too thin for black, and too pale. She could put on some colour, but
the little knobs on her spine showed all the way down the open back. She
shifted the hand-mirror this way and that, and thought what ugly things
bones were, and what a pity the dress was cut so low, and then slid off
into thinking what a lot it had cost, and how out of sight was out of
mind. There was Uncle Henry with lots of money, and she’d lived with him
from the time she was fifteen to the time she married, and he had paid
all her bills without a murmur and given her nice fat cheques for her
birthday and Christmas, and things like that, and then the very minute
she married Robin he didn’t seem to mind what happened to her any
more—just vague and affectionate when they met, but no more cheques. It
was a whole year since she had seen him now, and he hadn’t even bothered
to answer her letters. He had just faded out, and Bill might say what he
liked, she wasn’t going to write again and have that Cannock woman
sending one of her white mouse letters and saying how busy Mr
Postlethwaite was, and how important it was that he shouldn’t be
disturbed.

Meg was quite ready at a quarter to seven. She wore the black georgette,
and she had fastened one of the long scarf-ends on the left shoulder
with the brooch which Bill had given her for her twenty-first
birthday—two diamond daisies and a leaf. She had been in two minds
whether to wear it or not, but in the end she put it on. Other people
faded, but Bill didn’t—Robin, Uncle Henry, people you thought were your
friends, but never Bill. So why shouldn’t she wear his brooch? She
didn’t look pale any longer. She had tinted her cheeks and brightened
her lips, and to Bill she was the old pretty Margaret of two years ago,
only she was too thin. It went to his heart to see her so thin.

They dined at the Luxe and then went on to the theatre. The two years
might never have been at all. It was just like one of their old times
together. Meg was young. She had been unhappy for a long time, and now
quite suddenly the burden of that unhappiness seemed to have lifted. She
felt as if she had had an illness and it was over, and the tides of
health were flowing in again. She felt a consciousness of strength and
of renewing. The flat had been full of tired, sick, frightened thoughts,
and she had come away from it and left them behind her. The music
pleased her, and the lights—the laughing voices, and the new queer
frocks. Hers must be frightfully out of date, but it didn’t matter—Bill
had always had a way of making you feel better dressed and better
looking that you really were. Darling old Bill—she was very glad she
was wearing his brooch.

They talked about the old times down at Way’s End—Meg’s procession of
governesses—the one who thought her such a tomboy and wanted her to
wear gloves in the village—the one who used cheap scent—the one who
tried so hard to marry the Professor that even he became aware of it in
the end and ran away to Vienna to a congress—

“I ought to have gone to school,” said Meg. “If you’re an only child you
ought always to go to school, because otherwise you don’t make any
friends. Of course I should have screamed with rage if Uncle Henry had
tried to send me, because there were you and Jerry Holland, and I didn’t
want anyone else. But when Jerry went to India and you went to Chile,
there didn’t seem to be anyone at all.”

“Well, I’ve come back,” said Bill cheerfully. “Meg, why did the
Professor leave Way’s End? I thought he was dug in there for life.”

Meg nodded.

“So did I. I was most awfully surprised. I—I hadn’t been seeing him
much, and then in September—September last year—I wrote and said could
I go down for a bit. I felt as if I must get away, but he wrote back to
say he was going to move. Of course I wanted to know why, and all about
it. This time Miss Cannock wrote, and she said the village was getting
so noisy with motor horns and dogs, and Uncle Henry felt he must have
perfect quiet because he was going to start the book he’d been
collecting notes for ever since I was born. I can’t remember what it was
going to be called, because I never can remember the names of any of
Uncle Henry’s things, but it was ‘Meta—something-or-other’—or perhaps
I’m mixing it up with something else. Is there such a word as
metabolism?”

“I believe so.”

“Do you know what it means?”

“Not an idea.”

Meg sighed.

“I haven’t either, but it doesn’t really matter. Anyway the Cannock said
Uncle Henry had bought an island, and he was going there so that he
could write his book without being disturbed. Well, I was feeling
awfully desperate, so I went down to Way’s End without saying I was
coming.”

“Good for you!” said Bill. “Did you see the Professor?”

“Why did you say that?” said Meg. And then, “Yes, I did. But it didn’t
look as if I was going to—not at first. I saw the Cannock, and she was
in the most awful fuss about the move, and Uncle Henry not being
disturbed, and the precious book, and everything. I don’t know how he
stands her. She gives me the pip.”

“But you did see him?”

“Only because I sat there, and every time she stopped to take breath I
just said, ‘I’m afraid I can’t go away without seeing my uncle.’ I just
kept on saying it, and after about the hundred-and-first time she got
all pink about the eyes and the tip of the nose—she really is exactly
like a white mouse—and she flapped her hands and said, ‘Oh dear, oh
dear!’ and went away, and after about ten minutes Uncle Henry came
drifting in, awfully vague, but quite pleased to see me, so I was glad I
had stuck it out.”

Bill was frowning over something in his own mind. What the Professor
wanted was a good sharp jolt, and it wasn’t going to be Bill’s fault if
he didn’t get one.

“Where’s this island of his?” he said shortly.

“Well, it’s not a proper island—not a sea one, you know. He told me all
about it. It’s just an island in a lake.”

“Where’s the lake?”

“Seven miles from Ledlington—a place called Ledstow. There’s a lake,
and a house, and an island. Uncle Henry was as pleased as Punch about
the island. The house is on the bank, but there’s a sort of covered
bridge that goes over to the island. It was built by an eccentric old
lady who thought people were trying to murder her, so she had her own
rooms on the island. She used to sleep there and just come over to the
house in the daytime. Uncle Henry was most frightfully bucked. The
bridge had a door at each end, and once he’d locked those doors behind
him it was going to be as good as being on a desert island—nobody could
get at him, nobody could disturb him. He was so full of it that after
all I didn’t tell him the things I’d gone down there to tell him.”

“Oh, my dear!” said Bill involuntarily.

Meg looked at him, half rueful, half smiling.

“Darling Bill, I couldn’t. He was all pleased and happy. What was the
good of upsetting him? It wasn’t as if he could do anything about it
really. So I came away, and after that he just faded out.”

“Well, he’s got to fade in again,” said Bill grimly. He was having some
tolerably harsh thoughts about Henry Postlethwaite. You can’t stand in
the place of a girl’s parents for years and then go off casually to an
island and leave her with a disappearing husband and no money. The
Professor was a vague old boy, but Bill felt perfectly competent to get
through the vagueness and make him sit up and take notice. He restrained
the feelings with which he was seething and said,

“I’m going down to see him—probably tomorrow.”

“Oh, you mustn’t!” said Meg quickly.

“I’m going to.”

Meg sighed. Bill was most dreadfully obstinate. If he had made up his
mind to go, he would go. And quite suddenly she didn’t want to go on
talking about Uncle Henry. She said so before she knew that she was
going to say anything at all.

“Oh, Bill, don’t let’s talk about it any more. I—oh, Bill, _please_—”

She didn’t finish her sentence—she didn’t need to finish it. Her sudden
flush and the distressed look in her eyes spoke for her. She wanted to
leave all those things which had hurt her. She wanted to get away from
them, to forget for an hour, to stop thinking, to take this evening as a
respite from endurance, and in that respite to give herself up to all
the gay and pleasant surface impressions with which she was
surrounded—lights, flowers, music; the sort of food she hadn’t tasted
for months; Bill looking at her as if he found her good to look at....
She wanted to draw a charmed circle round this hour and keep it happy.
She had been unhappy for two whole years. She wanted her hour.

They had their coffee and rose to go. It was just then that an odd thing
happened. A couple who were sitting at the table behind them got up, the
man of a flushed amplitude with a hanging jowl and bright greedy eyes,
the woman a platinum blonde in a backless dress of silver gauze, hair,
dress and skin all pale, all shimmering under the many lights. Bill, at
a cursory glance, took her for the next thing to an albino and felt
vaguely repelled. Before he got any farther than that, Meg, a pace in
front of him, checked suddenly. She turned, and as she turned, he saw
her hand go up to the neck of her dress and come down again with a
little crumpled handkerchief just showing between her fingers. The
handkerchief fell to the floor. Bill picked it up, but when Meg had
thanked him and moved on again the couple were still beside their table.
The woman was lighting a cigarette. Her eyes were a pale, hard grey. She
used an odd shade of lipstick, the colour of—now what in mischief’s
name was it the colour of?

Meg went past without a glance, and Bill followed her. Then, when they
had almost reached the door, he looked round again.

The woman was holding her cigarette between the first and second fingers
of her left hand. The very pointed nails matched the lipstick to a hair.
She was looking at Meg, her lips wide in a smile, and all at once Bill
knew what her lipstick reminded him of. He knew that, and he knew
something else. The two things collided violently in his mind. The
lipstick was exactly the colour of a pink zinnia, of all flowers and of
all colours the most artificial, and it was those zinnia-coloured lips
which he had seen in a taxi beyond Robin O’Hara on that October midnight
more than a year ago.




                                   V


Bill did not speak until they were clear of the dining-room. The voices,
the laughter, the music seemed suddenly to have become unnaturally loud.
The whole big echoing room throbbed and vibrated with sound. He and Meg
walked through it silently. They came to an archway lined with mirrors,
and as he drew abreast of her, each threw a quick involuntary glance at
the other. Their eyes met. Bill’s sense of shock was intensified. They
came out into the wide corridor, and he said quickly,

“Do you know who she is?”

Meg drew a little away from his. Her eyebrows made a faint, fine arch
over the deep blue of her eyes. She said in a small, cool voice,

“Who?”

What was the sense of pretending like that? Whether she liked it or not,
he was bound to get at what she knew. And she did know something. There
wasn’t a shadow of doubt about that.

“Meg, I’m sorry, but it’s important. That woman at the table behind
ours—I’ve seen her before, and so have you. Tell me who she is.”

“I don’t know her.”

“Do you know who she is?”

“It’s quite obvious, I should think.”

“Meg!” Bill could have shaken her. “I’m asking if you know her name.”

“I believe she calls herself Della Delorne.”

There was a most curious sense of strain between them—anger,
resentment, pride. Meg’s voice was low and hard. Her hour’s respite was
over. Couldn’t Bill let her have just this one evening, that he must
question her about Della Delorne? Did he admire her so much that he had
to know her name—now, all in a hurry, in the middle of this one hour?

Bill, on his part, was astonished and a little angry. She was the
beloved woman, but Lord—the fundamental unreasonableness of women! She
had known him for ten years, and she could use that tone to him! It was
as if she accused him. His anger rose. Meg of all women in the world to
think that he would be caught at a glance by a simpering platinum blonde
with a gold-digging eye! He said stiffly,

“Do you happen to know where she lives?”

Meg said “Yes,” in a stiffer tone than his own. Her colour had ebbed
right away, leaving the clear, faint artificial tint in pathetic relief.
She turned from him and moved quickly in the direction of the
cloak-room. The evening was spoiled, but they would have to see it
through. She must get her coat, and then she and Bill would sit side by
side for a couple of hours hating one another and thinking about Della
Delorne.

When they were in the taxi, Bill put his hand on hers.

“Meg—don’t be angry.”

Meg looked away from him at a whirling sky-sign all scarlet and blue.

“I’m not in the least angry.”

Bill’s hand pressed hers. He said,

“Liar!” And then, “Why does Della Delorne make you angry?”

“I’m not angry—I told you I wasn’t.”

Bill pulled her round to face him.

“Look here, Meg, come off it! I want the woman’s name and address for
Garratt, not for myself. You’re behaving as if I’d insulted you. If you
hadn’t known who she was, I should have had to find out some other way.”

“Let me go!” said Meg. And then all of a sudden she melted. “Bill, you
don’t know—”

“No, but you can tell me, my dear.”

It was she who was holding him now, one hand on his arm, the other on
his wrist. Where her fingers touched his skin he could feel how cold
they were.

“Bill, I’m sorry—I was a beast—but it came over me. That woman—I saw
her—with Robin—twice. He wouldn’t tell me who she was, but other
people did. She calls herself an actress. I believe she’s sometimes been
in the chorus of a revue—I don’t know. I told you I was going to
divorce Robin. That was what I wanted to see Uncle Henry about. Why do
you want to know about her?”

He hesitated. The hand on his wrist tightened.

“Was it because you’d seen her with Robin too?” Her eyes implored him.
In the half light of the taxi they looked larger and darker than they
were. “Did you see her with Robin, Bill—_did_ you?”

Bill nodded, and at once her grasp relaxed. There was a feeling of
relief from strain. It was only the old trouble, not a new one. She
leaned back in her corner with a sigh. The taxi had come to a stop.
There was a block of cars in front of them. Neither spoke until the
block broke up. Then Meg said,

“When did you see them?”

“_Please_, Meg.”

“I want to know.”

Well, it was better to tell her. No good letting her imagine things. He
said,

“Well, that’s the whole point, my dear—I saw Robin in a taxi with a
woman at midnight on the fourth of October last year.”

“The fourth!” said Meg in a startled voice. And then, “But, Bill—that
was after—he disappeared—”

“Yes, I know.”

“He was with Della Delorne?”

“Well, that’s what I don’t know, but I think so. When I told Garratt—”

“You told Colonel Garratt?”

“Yes, of course I did. Well, when I told him, I said I wouldn’t know her
again, but just now in the dining-room as soon as I saw that woman,
something went click in my brain. I couldn’t have sworn to her features,
or her face, or anything. I only just had an impression of her beyond
Robin in the taxi, but there was something that made me put her down
for—well, for the sort of woman she is. I couldn’t get hold of it when
I was talking to Garratt, and I told him I wouldn’t know her again, but
when I saw her at the Luxe it came back and I remembered what it was.”

They were held up again at a cross road. The traffic streamed by in a
blur of sound. Against this blur Meg said clearly,

“What was it?”

“Her lipstick. Did you notice it? A beastly sort of unnatural pink.”

“Yes, it is, isn’t it?” Her voice was warm and eager.

“Well, that was what did the trick. So I had to find out who it was,
because of course I must let Garratt know.”

The traffic ceased to flow past them. They moved again.

“You saw her with Robin four days after he—disappeared!” Meg leaned
forward suddenly. There was a note of terror in her voice.
“_Bill—where—is—Robin?_”

The taxi drew up smoothly at the kerb. Bill put his hand on her shoulder
for a moment.

“Robin’s dead,” he said. “Garratt is quite sure he’s dead.”

The driver got down from his seat and opened the door.




                                   VI


The play flowed by very much as the traffic had flowed by, in a blur of
sound. The people who went about the stage and spoke their words made as
little impression on Meg O’Hara; the inner current of her thoughts moved
in too full and bitter a tide. Once she looked at a woman who wept on
the stage, and wondered what it was all about, and once it came to her
that the play must have been going on for hours, and then she found that
it was only nine o’clock. She had thought that she and Bill would have
to sit there side by side in a hating, angry silence, but it wasn’t like
that at all. Bill didn’t hate her. She had been horrid to him, and he
had been kind and patient. But it all felt a long way off—the play, and
Bill, and everything. It was a horrid, strange feeling, and it
frightened her.

She made a great effort in the first interval, and Bill helped her. They
talked about safe, comfortable things like the weather, and the new
pedestrians’ crossings, and Chile. Meg found Chile a most reassuring
place to talk about. It was such a long way off, so remote from the
closing circle of her fears.

After that she was able to follow the play—a little vaguely, a little
hazily, rather as if she were watching it through an unfocussed glass,
but still to follow it.

When it was over, Bill took her home. They went up to the third floor
together in the little lift that you worked yourself. They had been
rather silent in the taxi, and they were quite silent now.

When Meg took out her key and fitted it into the lock and the door
opened upon the small dark hall, she felt a momentary chill. She had
been coming back to this empty flat for a year, but tonight it seemed
emptier than usual. A thought looked into her mind like a stranger
looking in through the window. If Bill and she were coming home
together, the flat would not be cold and empty, but welcoming and warm.
That was the thought; but it wasn’t her own thought, it was a stranger
looking in. She stepped over the threshold and switched on the light—a
bright light in the little closed-in space which was the hall. To her
surprise and consternation she felt the colour come burning to her face.
She said good-night quickly and shut the door.

Bill took himself down in the lift. He had seen that sudden startled
colour, and it had sent his spirits soaring. He hadn’t the slightest
idea why she should have blushed, but he did know that she had never
blushed for him before. It seemed to him that it was a very encouraging
sign. But he did wonder what it was that had made her fly that scarlet
flag. It wasn’t as if she could possibly have known what he was
thinking, or how hard it was to leave her and come away. Well, perhaps
some day they would come home together and he wouldn’t have to leave
her. That was what he had been thinking, but of course she couldn’t have
known.

He came out on to the pavement and turned to the right. It was a dark
night with a feel of rain in the air. He meant to walk to the hotel, and
presently he crossed over and took a shortcut down a narrow side street.
It was when he was about half way down this street that it occurred to
him that there had been someone behind him ever since he had left the
flat. It would be a good deal of a coincidence if someone else should at
this hour be taking just his way through these unfrequented streets.

He turned at right angles into a paved alley with a row of posts across
the mouth of it. When he came out at the other end, he knew beyond a
doubt that someone was following him. It interested him a good deal. Did
he look sufficiently opulent to tempt a thief to follow him on the
chance of getting away with his wallet? But he was sure that the
footsteps had been behind him all the way from the flat. Why should a
thief have picked him up at the flat? It didn’t seem very likely.
O’Hara’s name flared through his mind like a squib. O’Hara, tormenting
Meg, spying on her.... No, it wasn’t reasonable. There wasn’t any
motive. O’Hara was either dead or alive. Garratt said he was dead, and
Garratt didn’t say things unless he meant them. O’Hara was dead. But,
for the sake of argument, if O’Hara was alive, he had deserted his wife.
And then why should he spy on her. She had been his, and he had chucked
her away. He had left her for a year without help, or comfort, or money.
All this supposing him to be alive. But he wasn’t alive—he couldn’t be.
Garratt said that he was dead. All the same, Bill turned out of the
alley and made two quick strides of it to the nearest doorway, where he
stood pressed up against the door to see who would come out after him.

There were posts at this end of the alley too. It was very dark. He
could only just see them, but he thought if O’Hara came out, that he
would recognize him. There was a way he had of walking, an impudent
confidence, a turn of the head.

The place into which he had come was a narrow street of poor houses,
crowding one upon another. He had come up three steps to the doorway
where he was sheltering. There was no light in this house, nor in the
half dozen houses that were nearest, whether on his own side of the
street or on the other. There was nobody afoot the whole length of the
street. He began to wonder whether he had been mistaken. If someone were
really following him, where was he, and why didn’t he emerge? And then
he heard the footstep again, quite near, in a faint stumble as if the
foot had slipped on a worn place or stubbed itself against one of the
posts. Another moment and someone came cautiously out into the street.

Bill had said that he would know O’Hara, but here there wasn’t anything
to know—a shadow standing motionless just clear of the black alley-way,
with the darkness confusing height, shape, and outline. There wasn’t any
outline. The shadow was one with the other shadows. When he stared at
it, he was no longer sure that he could see it at all, but when he
looked away and looked back again, it was there, quite motionless, just
not merged in the blackness out of which it had come.

He made one step of it to the street level and spoke.

“Who are you—and what do you want?”

The shadow receded a little. There was no answer.

Bill Coverdale came on, but even as he came, there was a flash in the
dark, and a report that was deafeningly loud in the narrow place. The
wind of the explosion came against his face, acrid with the smell of
burnt powder. The top of his left ear stung, and as he clapped his hand
to it, the blood ran hot between his fingers. The shadow was gone, and
Bill went pelting down the alley after it in a fury of anger. The fellow
had tried to kill him. He had the blanketing dark and a sideways stumble
over a pot-hole to thank for his life. The pistol had been fired from
not more than a yard away.

He came to the posts at the far end, and saw by the light of a distant
lamp that the street was empty. He had enough sense not to emerge upon
the pavement, faintly though it was lit. Instead he flattened himself
against the wall of the right-hand house and looked back, listening.
There was nothing either to see or hear. Nobody moved, threw up a
window, or concerned himself with the shot which had come within half an
inch of achieving a murder.

Bill began to feel that he was uncommonly lucky to be alive. He also
began to wonder whether he was going to be able to stay alive, or
whether the shadow would have a second shot at him as soon as he came
out into the light. He didn’t think the fellow had got away in front of
him. No—most likely he had stood against the wall, let Bill charge past
him, and then made his get-away up at the other end. Of course he might
not have been bothering about getting away. A really persevering
assassin would be all out for that second shot. On the other hand, he
couldn’t have banked on the neighbourhood having absolutely no reactions
to midnight murder. Personally he thought the swab would have cleared
out.

He waited five minutes, heard nothing, saw nothing, slipped out of the
alley between the end post and the wall, and walked home to his hotel
without further incident.




                                  VII


When Meg had shut the door on Bill Coverdale she went into the
sitting-room and put on the light there. That is to say, she pulled down
the switch, and the light _should_ have come in, but it didn’t. She
remained standing just inside the door, frowning at the dark room, with
the one bright shaft slanting in from the hall to a spot about a yard in
front of her. She pushed the switch up, and then down again. There were
two little clicks, but nothing happened.

She went back into the hall, opened her bedroom door, and tried the
switch there. Again nothing happened except the click. Her frown
deepened. It seemed odd that both these lights would go wrong together,
when the hall light was all right. She tried the bathroom and the
kitchen and found both lights were gone. Well, she hadn’t got a spare
bulb, and she hadn’t got any candles, so she would just have to make the
best of it and feel her way to bed in the dark. Of course she might take
the hall bulb and see if it would work in her room, but if she did that,
she would have to make the change in the dark. A little cold shiver ran
over her. She didn’t like the idea. If there was anything wrong with the
fuse, it might spoil the new bulb and leave her without any light at
all. That was a definitely unpleasant thought.

She left her door open, and found that she could see well enough.
Besides she didn’t want to see. She wanted to undress as quickly as she
could and get to bed and sleep, a long, long, dreamless sleep. She
didn’t need a light for that.

She kept all her thoughts on the surface as she undressed. Her dress
hadn’t looked too bad—she must find the right hanger—she could do that
by feeling for it—it was a little colder tonight—the wind was this
way—she couldn’t be bothered to fill her hot water bottle—nice to slip
into bed and lie down—nice to feel sleep waiting for you—Nice to stop
thinking and go down into forgetfulness....

But after all she dreamed. Sleep betrayed her and she dreamed. At first
it was pleasant enough—a mere hazy sense of being amongst trees, and
the sound of a stream flowing somewhere out of sight. She was walking on
pine-needles. That was her first really clear impression—thick, soft
pine-needles which gave out an aromatic smell when her feet bruised
them. She must be walking under pine-trees, but she couldn’t see them,
only the smooth drifted needles at her feet. And then she knew that she
wasn’t alone in the wood. There was someone walking behind her with a
step that kept pace with her own, so that she could not hear when it
fell. She began to run, and the thing that followed her ran too, faster
and faster, faster and faster, until with a little click the dream broke
off short and she was awake in the dark. Her heart was racing, her mouth
was dry. She pushed the bed-clothes away from her shoulders and got up
on her elbow to listen. The click which she had heard—had it been in
her dream, or here? It had broken the dream, but had it broken it from
within or from without? She stared into the even darkness. It was
everywhere.

But she had left her door open. She had left the hall light burning, a
piece of the most shocking extravagance and one for which she was now
being punished, because if she hadn’t left it burning it would have been
just natural and ordinary to wake up in the dark instead of most
unnatural and alarming. She had left the light on, and she had left the
door open about a foot. There should have been a lighted patch on the
floor, and a long bright panel between the door edge and the jamb. The
click that had waked her might very easily have been the click of the
closing door....

The draught from the open window stirred her hair. She drew a long
breath of relief. The door had blown to, and that was what had broken
her dream.

But she ought to have been able to see a bright gleam from under the
door. There was always that line of light at the sill when this room was
dark and the hall was lit.

The bulb in the hall must have gone wrong. Stupid of her not to have
thought of that before—very stupid. Well, there wasn’t anything she
could do about it now. She had better turn over and go to sleep
again—much better—much, much better.

She remained leaning on her elbow—listening. If you listen in the
night, there are always things to hear—faint almost inaudible rustling,
creaking sounds. If you listen long enough, you can hear your own
pulses, the beating of your heart. If you listen longer still, you can
hear your own thoughts, your own sick fears. Meg heard all these things.

She said to herself, “Get up and go to the door. Open it and strike a
match. Go into the sitting-room and see for yourself that there isn’t
anybody there.” _See?_ When the minute you struck a match it went out
again? Meg said, “I _won’t_!” and went on listening. The arm on which
she was leaning had gone to sleep. She sat right up and began to move it
to and fro to get the feeling back into it again. This was better than
listening.

And then all at once there was a sound she did not have to listen for.
It came from the sitting-room, and it was a sound which she knew as well
as the sound of her own voice. The second drawer of her writing-table
squeaked when it was drawn fully out. The sound went right away back
into her childhood, because the writing-table was her mother’s and that
drawer had always squeaked it if was pulled more than half way. Someone
must be in the sitting-room at this moment pulling out the drawer. She
threw off the bed-clothes and jumped out of bed. The spurt of anger
which had taken her as far as this took her for the moment no farther.
She stood bare-foot on the linoleum and felt her anger die down into a
sort of cold horror.

It was then that the stranger thought looked in again at one of the
defenceless windows of her mind—if Bill were here, she wouldn’t be
frightened and alone like this. This time she was much too cold and
afraid to blush. The thought would even have been company if it hadn’t
been for the sharp realization that Bill was at least three miles away,
and that somebody else was in the next room.

With a most frightful effort Meg lifted first one cold foot and then the
other, and so took herself to the door. She leaned against it for a
moment and then turned the handle and pulled it a bare half inch towards
her.

There wasn’t any light in the hall. She knew that already, so it was
perfectly idiotic for her heart to bang like this. She had known there
was no light in the hall from the moment she had looked at the door and
seen only even gloom, with no prick of light at the key-hole, no line of
light at the sill.

There wasn’t any light in the hall, but there was a light in the
sitting-room.... Was there? She thought so. The door stood half-way open
now, and she was sure she had left it wide. It stood half-way open, and
the room beyond was not as dark as the hall. There was some light there,
and as she stared, one hand on the door and one on the jamb, a sudden
shifting ray told her what that light was. Only an electric torch casts
a narrow ray like that. The anger that had got her out of bed flared up
again. It was very heartening, but it didn’t last. If she had been sure
it was a burglar in there pulling out the drawers of her writing-table,
nothing would have been easier than to run out on to the stair and
scream for help. The burglar would be certain to run away, and with any
luck he might run into trouble and be caught before he could reach the
street. Meg had a very good scream, and she thought she could bank on
rousing the block. But she wasn’t sure it was a burglar. Suppose it was
Robin. Horrible to feel that you would be more frightened if it was your
husband than if it was a burglar. Impossible to risk screaming the house
down if it was Robin in there with the torch.

_Robin was dead._

She stared into the darkness. How could it be Robin, if Robin was dead?
A faintness that was not physical came over her. It was her will, her
courage, that was near to fainting. If it was Robin who was there and
Robin was alive, what was he doing? What darkness and cruelty was this
in which he hid himself? What darkness and suspicion was there in her
that she should think him capable of such a thing? She felt an agony of
self-abasement. Robin was dead. Whatever had been wrong between them
should be blotted out. How vile, _how vile_, to accuse a dead man in her
thought—to bring him back from the grave in order to accuse him.

She straightened herself suddenly and stood clear of the door. It was no
good. If it was vile to think Robin capable of this, then she was vile.
But it was he who had taught her to believe the unbelievable. There was
no cruelty and no betrayal which she could not believe of Robin O’Hara.

A calmness came over her. She would rather know whatever there was to be
known. She caught the edge of the door and pulled it wide. The two open
doorways faced one another now with the hall between. She had only to
cross the hall and she would know whether it was Robin who was there in
the sitting-room. She took a step forward, and all at once that small
bright ray leapt out of the darkness and struck her in the face. It
dazzled and went out. She shut her eyes involuntarily, and she made some
sound that was not quite a scream. Then, before she could move or open
her eyes, someone went past within a yard of her and the outer door
swung in without a sound and closed again with no more than the click of
the latch.

Meg went and stood against it. It was shut. She was alone in the flat.
The outer door was shut. No one could come in without a key. No one
could have come in without a key. Her own key was in her bag. She had
used it to let herself in when she came home with Bill. It seemed as if
it was hours, and hours, and hours ago. No one else had a key except
Robin. No one could get in without a key. Tomorrow, she thought, she
would have a bolt put on the door. No, it was today—today, as soon as
the shops were open. She would go to the ironmonger round the corner and
get a really efficient bolt.

She left the door and went to the sitting-room. She wasn’t afraid any
longer. The flat was empty of anyone but herself. But there had been
someone here, and she couldn’t wait for daylight to know what he had
been doing. There ought to be matches on the mantelpiece. She found them
and struck one.

The first thing she saw, quite close to her beside the matchbox, was an
electric bulb. She wondered if it were the one from the hall. She
wondered if the bulb in her bedroom had been taken out too. If it had,
then he must have been in the flat before she came home. The match burnt
her fingers and she dropped it into the fireplace. A second one showed
her the drawer of her writing-table pulled out. She came nearer, but the
match went out before she could see whether the papers had been
disturbed or not.

She was just going to light a third match, when her mind suddenly woke
up. There she was, striking matches like a dazed idiot, with a perfectly
good electric bulb only waiting to be put in.

She had to climb on a chair and feel for the socket inside the cloudy
bowl which hung from the ceiling. When she moved the chair it knocked
against something, and when she put out her hand she found that a small
walnut table had been moved out of its place. She wondered why it had
been moved.

She went back to the door, but with her hand on the switch, she felt an
acute stab of fear. If it didn’t work, if the light didn’t come—She had
the feeling that she wouldn’t be able to bear it. Stupid, because you
always have to bear things, whether you feel as if you can or not. Her
fingers moved with a jerk and the light came on. With a most blessed
sense of relief she looked about the familiar room. There was the
writing-table with the drawer pulled out, but she had seen that already
and her glance went past it. The writing-chair had been moved to one
side. She passed that too.

It was the small walnut table which arrested her. As a rule it held
books and papers, but they were all gone, cleared off it and thrown upon
the couch. The light came from the bowl in the ceiling, and the table
stood under the light. It had been moved so that it might stand there.
Its surface was broken by a small rectangular card, white against the
warm polished brown.

Meg came slowly to the table and looked down at it. The card lay there
right in the middle, an ordinary calling card. It had neatly printed
across it in the conventional manner:

                           _Mr Robin O’Hara._




                                  VIII


“It sounds to me like a pack of nonsense!” said Garratt. He glared
resentfully at Bill Coverdale and went on cramming tobacco into his
pipe.

Bill leaned against the mantelpiece and waited. It wasn’t the slightest
use arguing with Garratt, but when he had told you what a damned fool
you were he would as a rule give you a fair innings. He waited therefore
quite amiably until the pipe was alight.

Garratt tossed the match in the direction of the fireplace and missed
it.

“A pack of twaddle-bosh!” he said rudely. “First you say you wouldn’t
recognize the woman you saw with O’Hara, and then you come here and tell
me you’ve recognized her.” Bill nodded.

“I recognized her all right.”

“Then why did you tell me you wouldn’t be able to?”

“I never said I wouldn’t know her. And when I saw this Delorne girl at
the Luxe last night I recognized her at once—that is to say I
recognized her lipstick.”

“You recognized her _what_?”

“Lipstick,” said Bill. “You know—the stuff girls put on their mouths.”

He got a baleful glance.

“How do you mean you recognized it? Every woman in London plasters
herself with the stuff!”

“Oh—you’ve noticed that? Then perhaps you’ve noticed that the stuff
isn’t all the same colour. This particular brand wasn’t. It was pink, a
sort of flannelette pink, and the minute I saw it I knew that I’d seen
it before. And I knew when—and where.”

“Well?”

“The night before I sailed last year—that’s when. And just beyond Robin
O’Hara in a taxi—that’s where.”

Garratt pulled at his pipe.

“You’re sure?”

“Yes, I am.”

“You can’t be!”

Bill picked up the spent match and dropped it amongst the wood and coal
of the unlighted fire.

“Well, there’s some corroborative evidence—”

“Why didn’t you say so?” snapped Garratt.

Bill laughed a little.

“Just waiting for you to say your piece,” he said.

“Well, what is it? I suppose you know I’ve got a job to get on with.
What’s your evidence? Trot it out!”

“Well, Meg O’Hara obviously recognized the girl—saw her, and didn’t
want to see her—dropped her handkerchief and turned away to pick it up
just as we were passing Miss Delorne. Then when I pressed her she said
she knew who she was. She gave me her name—Della Delorne—and when I
went on pressing her she told me she’d seen her with Robin O’Hara.” He
hesitated, and then went on with some change of voice. “It’s no good
trying to keep things back in an affair of this kind, so you’d better
know that she was going to sue for a divorce. O’Hara was a rotten
husband. He was a cruel devil, you know, and she’d have been well quit
of him. I gathered that Della Delorne would have been the
co-respondent.”

Garratt blew out another cloud of smoke. He looked through it sharply at
Bill Coverdale and said,

“How much did you know of this when you—recognized her?”

“I didn’t know any of it.”

“Sure of that?”

“Oh, quite sure.”

“And after you recognized this girl’s lipstick Mrs O’Hara gave you to
understand that she was going to have cited her as co-respondent—if
O’Hara hadn’t disappeared?”

“That’s what it amounted to.”

“All right,” said Garratt, “we’ll get on to her. You’ve probably made a
mistake, and we shan’t get anything out of it, but we’ll try a cast or
two. Good-bye—I’m going out.”

Bill laughed again.

“I’d hate to keep you, but it might interest you to know that I was shot
at last night.”

On his way to the door Garratt stopped and came about with a jerk.

“You were _what_?”

“Oh, just shot at—on my way home—in a nice convenient backwater where
the local inhabitant is warranted to sleep through anything from an air
raid to the day of judgment.”

Garratt came back with a scowl on his face.

“Are you fooling?”

Bill looked mildly innocent.

“Certainly not.”

“Then tell me in plain English what happened.”

Bill told him. Before he got very far Garratt produced a map, and he had
to start again and trace the way he had taken step by step.

“Minnett’s Row—” Garratt jabbed with his thumbnail at the thin black
line which represented the lane of crowding houses where Bill had stood
to see who would come out of the darkness of the alley-way. “Morton’s
Alley, and Minnett’s Row.” Garratt jabbed again.

“It hadn’t anything to do with the street,” said Bill. “I cut up the
alley because I thought I was being followed, and I wanted to know who
was after me. As a matter of fact, I’m pretty sure I’d been followed all
the way from the flat.”

Garratt snapped out a single word—“Why?”

“Well, I was about here”—it was Bill’s turn to put a finger on the
map—“when I began to think someone was trailing me, and the minute I
began to think about it I felt pretty sure I’d been hearing him behind
me all the time.”

“And the footstep came after you through the alley into the row, and
then fired a pistol at you point blank and missed you clean? You weren’t
drunk, I suppose?” Garratt’s tone was in the last degree offensive.

“I was not—I hadn’t even taken a drink. And you’ve got it all wrong. He
didn’t miss me clean—he took the skin of the top of my ear, and I
walked home bleeding like a pig.”

Garratt cast an unsympathetic eye upon the wound.

“The fellow must be a damn bad shot. Sure you didn’t cut yourself
shaving?”

Bill Coverdale straightened up and went back to the hearth.

“Have it your own way,” he said. “I thought I’d just tell you—that’s
all.”

Garratt glared at the map for a moment, and then gave it a shove which
sent it off on to the floor.

“Any idea who it could have been?” he said.

“None.”

“No one with a grudge against you?”

Bill shook his head.

“Not that sort of grudge.”

“You didn’t get into a mess in Chile?”

Bill laughed.

“No good trying to drag Chile in.”

Garratt walked round the table, picked up the map, folded it with a
ruthless disregard for the way in which it was meant to be folded, and
banged it down upon his blotting-pad. Then he came over to Bill and
prodded him in the chest with a nubbly forefinger which felt exactly
like a piece of an iron gas-pipe.

“Who was it? Who do you think it was? You were thinking of someone when
you were telling me. Who was it?”

Bill made a slight movement of the shoulders which could not have been
called a shrug.

“I thought about O’Hara, but it couldn’t have been O’Hara.”

“_O’Hara?_” said Garratt explosively. “Damned nonsense!” He went over to
where he had left the map, took it across to a book-case at the far side
of the room, and jammed it in between a _Who’s Who_ and a _Burke’s
Peerage_. Then he looked over his shoulder with a scowl and said
sharply, “_Damned_ nonsense! O’Hara’s dead!”




                                   IX


Bill had a day before him. When he had interviewed Garratt he walked
round to the dealer from whom he was getting a car, paid for it,
collected it, and drove away. He drove to Ledlington, and having in mind
that the car was not yet run in, he did not allow himself to exceed
thirty-five miles an hour, though he would have liked to have gone a
great deal faster. He wanted to see Henry Postlethwaite with the least
possible delay, and he wanted to see him before he saw Meg again. Owing
to the rather emotional turn which the evening had taken, the Professor
had faded into the background. Meg had been too much startled by her
encounter with Della Delorne, and too much upset by his questions, to
remember that he was going down to see her uncle today. If she had
remembered, she would have tried to cramp his style. He knew his Meg,
and she would certainly have tried to make him promise not to worry
Uncle Henry, not to tell him that she hadn’t got any money, and above
all things not to suggest that it was his business to provide her with
some—all of which things Bill had every intention of doing. He was fond
of the Professor, and he meant to be kind, but he also meant to be firm,
and he was quite definitely of the opinion that his immediate job in
life was to see that the Professor did worry about Meg. It was therefore
going to save a lot of wear and tear if he kept out of her way until
after he had seen her uncle.

It was a very nice morning for a drive—blue sky, rippled over with
small fleecy clouds, some wind, and a sun so warm as to seem more like
June than October. There had been rain overnight, and bright drops still
beaded the brambles on the shady side of the hedgerow here and there—a
wonderful blackberry crop, and the thorn trees loaded down with crimson
haws.

He lunched in Ledlington, parking his car in the Square watched over by
the statue of Sir Albert Dawnish, whose Quick Cash Stores, now so
beneficently universal, had their origin in a humble establishment not
twenty yards from this very spot. Ledlington is justly proud of her
great man. She has set him aloft in the rigid trousers and all the other
distressing garments peculiar to statuary in these islands.

After lunch Bill drove out to Ledstow. The road first crossed an open
heath and then, coming on to a lower level, wound amongst trees. Ledstow
village consists of a church, a public house, a row of petrol-pumps, and
a single street of cottages varying from the timbered Elizabethan hovel
to the converted railway-carriage of the post-war period. They all
appeared to be equally unsanitary, but alas not equally picturesque. The
village pond, thickly blanketed with green slime, gave out an archaic
odour which seemed to be holding its own against the twentieth-century
smell of petrol. The church, ancient and beautiful, was surrounded by a
very large, damp graveyard set about with yews.

On inquiry Bill discovered that Ledstow Place, the property recently
bought by Henry Postlethwaite, was known locally as The Place without
any further qualification. It was about a quarter of a mile from the
village, and was approached by a dark lane which turned at right angles
by the pond and skirted the churchyard, the farther end of which marched
with its boundary wall. There was a wall all round it—a very sizeable
wall.

Bill came to a locked gate, with a lodge beyond it crouching amongst
evergreens. He had to sound his horn half a dozen times before anyone
came, and then it was an old woman, very slow and deaf, who looked
through the gate and asked him his business. He began to think he ought
to have wired to say he was coming. He produced a card, passed it
through the bars, and shouted,

“I want to see Mr Postlethwaite! I’m an old friend!”

“He don’t live here,” said the old woman, shaking her head.

“Who doesn’t?” said Bill at the top of his voice.

“There’s never been any Smiths here that I know of,” said the old woman.

“Postlethwaite,” said Bill—“not Smith! Professor Postlethwaite!”

“Not that I ever heard tell about,” said the old woman dolefully.

It occurred to Bill bitterly that from the point of view of complete
security from interruption the Professor had certainly found an ideal
retreat, but if anyone thought he, Bill, had come down here just for the
pleasure of going away again, they were badly mistaken. He printed the
name Postlethwaite on the back of another card, and was rewarded by a
fleeting gleam of intelligence.

“Then why did you go asking after Smiths?” said the old woman crossly.
“Never none here so far as I know of, and you can’t get from it.”

“_Post_lethwaite,” said Bill with fearful intensity.

The old woman shook her head.

“He don’t see no one except by appointment. Very busy gentleman, Mr
Postlethwaite.”

He certainly ought to have wired, but he had had the oddest, most
insistent desire to arrive without warning.

He produced a third card, and wrote on it under his name—“Just back
from Chile. Very anxious to see you. Bill.”

Five shillings accompanied this through the bars.

“I want to see Mr Postlethwaite. Can you send this up to the house?”

The old woman pocketed the money, read the card with interest, and
lifted up her voice in an eldritch scream.

“John-_ee_!”

Round the corner of the lodge there came a slouching lout of eighteen or
so. From the state of his boots and hands, he had been digging. He took
the card between a grimy thumb and forefinger and set off up the drive
at a very leisurely pace. The old woman went back into the lodge.

Bill looked about him. He thought the Professor had taken on a white
elephant. The place seemed very large, overgrown, and neglected. The
drive had certainly not been gravelled since the war, and there was
twenty years of unpruned growth on the shrubs and evergreens which
darkened it. The property had probably gone for a song, but it would
cost a lot to put it in order. Of course the Professor wouldn’t bother.
Very likely the lout was all the gardener there was. He was very glad
that he had not brought Meg down with him. He had thought of it, but he
had wanted a free hand with Henry Postlethwaite. He would have hated it
for Meg to sit and wait at her uncle’s gate as he was waiting now. It
didn’t matter for him, but he would have hated it for Meg. There was
something depressing about this mouldering old place.

The best of the day was over, though it was not much after half past
two. The small fleecy clouds of the morning had spread into an even
grey. There was a palpable damp in the air, and a chilly wind which
rustled the yellowing leaves of the horse-chestnuts on the other side of
the wall. The fruit was falling early because of the drought. Lord—what
a melancholy place for old Postlethwaite to bury himself in! He thought
of Way’s End with its beautiful Georgian front looking, at a dignified
distance, upon the village street.... Oh well, the Professor had wanted
quiet, and he had got it with a vengeance.

The lout came down the drive, and disappeared round the lodge without
taking the slightest notice of Bill.

Bill sounded his horn.

Nothing happened. No one came. Three chestnuts dropped.

He sounded it again, and went on sounding it.

Presently the old woman came slowly out with a key. She fitted it into
the lock, and then stood back and said with sudden loudness, “You can go
along up to the house.” After which she took two hands to turn the key
and opened the gate only just far enough to let him through.

Garratt by this time would have been gibbering, but Bill was the
fortunate possessor of a very equable temperament. He meant to see the
Professor, and in pursuit of that aim he was prepared to exercise any
amount of patience, perseverance, and push.

He walked up the untidy drive at a good swinging pace. It turned almost
at once, so that he was out of sight of the lodge. There were weeds
everywhere. The shrubbery on either side was choked with untended
growth. Beech and chestnut sent out their branches so low across the
drive that it would have been dangerous to come up it at night.

There was a second turn, and he came suddenly in sight of the lake. It
was quite a considerable body of water, with a belt of woodland coming
right to the edge on this side of it, whilst beyond on the farther side,
flat down by the water, stood a square barrack of a house with the
rough, unkempt grass-land of the park right up to the very walls. The
water might have been beautiful, but the house was frankly hideous.
There wasn’t a tree anywhere near it. There was no attempt at a garden.
There wasn’t a creeper on its blank grey walls. It had rows of windows
looking upon the lake. But its most noticeable feature was, of course,
the bridge which ran out to the island.

Bill stood and looked at it. The island was perhaps fifty yards out—a
medium-sized island, with a high stone wall all round it. The bridge
pierced the wall, and at the shore end entered the house on the
ground-floor level at the extreme right of the building. It was a
covered bridge on wooden piles, solid, clumsy, and altogether a blot on
the landscape.

He began to walk round the lake. The drive skirted it, rising a little
and then dipping again, until in the end it landed him upon what had
been a large gravel sweep with the front of the house looking down upon
it. The gravel had disappeared under weeds and a sort of scumlike moss
which was very slippery to walk on.

The house itself was not quite so ugly on this side, but it seemed
desolate and uncared for. Some half dozen steps led up to the front
door, and they looked as if they had not been cleaned for years. The
bell was of the old-fashioned hanging type with a wrought-iron handle
like a stirrup. Bill pulled it, and heard the wire squeak faintly in its
slot. He had no means of knowing whether the bell had rung or not. In a
place like this anything that could get out of order was almost certain
to be out of order. Or if it rang, it would ring in some remote
sepulchral kitchen where no one would hear it. The house had an
extremely uninhabited look.

After a decent interval he rang again. Almost at once footsteps
approached and the door was opened. An elderly man-servant stood there
looking up at him from under bushy grey eyebrows. He looked up because
he was of medium stature and Bill was on the large side. He had the
harassed air that any servant might have had in a house so large and so
unkempt. Bill looked past him and saw in the hall the familiar
furnishings which he had known at Way’s End—the carved and twisted
Victorian chairs which went so oddly with the panelled oak chest and the
great Flemish cupboard with its polished bosses in high relief. He
wondered what had happened to Evans. He must have buttled for the
Professor for at least twenty years, and it seemed odd that the
cupboard, and the chairs, and the chest should be here and not old
Evans. All this was in his mind as he said,

“I’m Mr Coverdale. I think Mr Postlethwaite is expecting me. I sent my
card up.”

Without answering, the man held the door wide open, and when Bill had
passed through and he had shut it again, he led the way to the back of
the hall. A door stood open there, and Bill came into a small room which
was familiar in everything except the outlook from its windows, which
gave upon the lake. There were two of them, and they were framed in blue
curtains which had hung in Meg’s own little room at Way’s End. Her old
blue carpet was under his feet. Her mother’s picture looked down at him
with the eyes that were so like Meg’s. The chairs in their faded chintz
covers were the chairs in which he and Meg had been sitting when he
asked her to marry him and she said no. The only things missing were her
writing-table and herself.

He wondered why she had left her mother’s picture behind her when she
went to the flat. He was looking at it, when the door opened and a woman
came in. He recognized her at once from Meg’s description as Miss
Wallace’s successor—the white mouse—Miss Cannock. The description was
apt enough—the forward stoop of the shoulders and poke of the head, the
light greying hair done in some archaic fashion of a fringe frizzed low
on the forehead under a hair-net, and fastened up behind in a knob from
which faint clinging strands came down upon a bright blue collar and a
batik scarf patterned in heliotrope, purple, and grey. It was not only
the collar that was blue. The whole dress was of that eye-splitting
shade known as royal. It made the sallow face about it a good deal more
sallow than it need have been. The scarf, which was long and wide, kept
slipping off and sliding down. Bill felt an extraordinary irritation.
The woman couldn’t help being plain, but she could help wearing clothes
like this—and in Meg’s room too, where that horrible blue shrieked at
the curtains.

Miss Cannock advanced with a timid hand outstretched. She wore large
horn-rimmed spectacles with smoky-coloured lenses, behind which her eyes
had a vague and peering look. She wore black Cashmere stockings, and
shoes with beaded toes. She smiled, showing yellowish teeth, and said in
a very high-pitched lisping voice,

“Oh, how do you _do_, Mr Coverdale!”

“Miss Cannock?” said Bill.




                                   X


Miss Cannock smiled again.

“Oh yes!” she said, and Bill found himself holding a limp hand which
weighed heavily in his for the briefest possible moment and then
withdrew.

He was astonished at his own relief when she moved away from him and,
going over to the window, sat down in a small hard chair with her back
to the light. Some ridiculous vein of sentiment made him feel glad that
she had chosen this chair which was a stranger, and not one of the blue
chairs which belonged to his memories of Meg.

She said, “Won’t you please sit down?” and Bill had actually taken his
seat before it occurred to him that this was rather ominous. The feeling
added a touch of firmness to his manner as he said,

“I’m hoping to see Mr Postlethwaite. I don’t know if he has spoken of
me, but I am an old friend. Does he know that I am here?”

Miss Cannock was pleating one end of her old-maidish scarf. She didn’t
look old, but she looked like an old maid. She said,

“Ah yes—that is just the point, Mr Coverdale—that is just the question
I was going to raise with you.” She smiled in a deprecating manner, and
as she did so, he noticed with distaste what seemed to be a slight
distortion on the left side of her face. Her smile ran up crookedly and
emphasized this twist or whatever it was. He wished she wouldn’t smile.

He said, “Yes—but I am very anxious to see him, Miss Cannock.”

She continued to smile. Now that she had her back to the light, he
couldn’t see her eyes at all, only the solemn smoky circles behind which
they were looking at him.

“Oh yes, Mr Coverdale—and I’m sure it would give him great pleasure,
but if you are an old friend, you will know how difficult it is to
interrupt him when he is working—very, very difficult indeed—and I
don’t know—”

Bill interrupted _her_ rather brusquely.

“Does he know I’m here?” he asked.

She fidgeted with her scarf.

“That was the point I was going to raise, Mr Coverdale. It is most
natural that you should want to see him—such an old friend, I’m sure,
though he doesn’t talk about people, at least not when he’s working. But
just at the moment he is so very much taken up with the book—I should
perhaps say _immersed_. He hardly seems to notice the outside world at
all. You see, this is his answer to Professor Hoppenglocker, and he
expects it to dispose once and for all of Ottorini’s theory, which he
has always considered to be unsound in principle and—er—fundamentally
unscientific.”

Bill had not the slightest interest in Ottorini’s theory, which he now
heard of for the first time, but he intended to see the Professor. He
said,

“Yes, I know—but he can’t work all day and all night, and I shan’t keep
him very long. Has he been told that I’m here?”

“Well, as a matter of fact, Mr Coverdale—”

“He hasn’t?” He got up. “I wonder if you would kindly let him know, Miss
Cannock. I am afraid I must see him.”

Miss Cannock got up too. Her scarf slipped from her shoulders and she
made an awkward flustered movement to pick it up.

“So very difficult, Mr Coverdale—such strict orders—I hope you
realize. I’ll see what I can do, but he is, as I said before, so
_immersed_.”

Bill went to the door and opened it.

“Will you tell him that I want to speak to him about his niece—about
Mrs O’Hara,” he said.

Miss Cannock clutched at her scarf.

“Oh certainly, Mr Coverdale. You may rely on me to do my best, but these
very clever men are all alike—a world of their own—no
interruptions—and, I am afraid, sadly vague about family affairs. I
have had to urge, positively to urge him to answer Mrs O’Hara’s letters,
and very often without success, but you may rely on me to do my best—oh
yes.”

She went out, smiling her crooked smile. As if half unconsciously, she
turned to shut the door, but more because of some inward antagonism than
for any real reason Bill kept his hold of it and watched her, after a
moment’s hesitation, cross the hall and pass out of sight down a passage
of which he could see only the nearer end. He thought he would keep the
door open. If there were to be any comings and goings, he might as well
be aware of them. He disliked that Cannock woman a good deal, and
remembered stout, placid Miss Wallace with regret.

Time went by. A clock struck three. That would be the old wall-clock
which had faced the barometer across the hall at Way’s End. It wheezed a
little between the strokes, and unless it had set up new habits in the
last year, the time was now half past three. The hands would be all
right, but for some reason which no one had ever fathomed, the strike
was always half an hour behind. It must be nearly twenty minutes since
Miss Cannock had gone away. He wondered what she was doing and whether
she wouldn’t just come back presently and say, with that smiling lisp,
that the Professor was too “_immersed_” to see him.

He walked to the left-hand window and stood looking out upon the lake.
It was dark and leaden with the reflection of the low cloud overhead. A
slight drizzle had begun, and already there was a suggestion of mist on
the ground beyond the water’s edge. He was prepared to bet that there
would be fog here five nights out of seven in the winter. He could see
the bridge going over to the island—all of it, that is, except the bit
nearest the house, which was hidden by what he guessed to be the
drawing-room bay. The island looked like some ridiculous toy, with its
high walls and two chimney-pots sticking up like ears from the sloping
roof of the house inside. He remembered that the bridge had a door at
either end, and he wondered whether the Professor had locked himself in
on his island and was refusing to answer Miss Cannock’s not very
insistent knock. He had the feeling that she would not try unduly hard
to make him hear.

He turned back to the room and went over to the hearth. There was no
fire. He wondered how long it was since there had been one. Everything
smelt damp—and that after the driest summer on record. What the place
would be like in a wet winter beggared imagination. What a mutt Henry
Postlethwaite was!

He stood frowning at the mantelpiece, a depressing piece of work
executed in a marble which looked exactly like jellied brawn. The little
blue and gold enamelled clock which had belonged to Meg’s grandmother
ticked softly between the blue candlesticks which she had been so fond
of. These three things had been at Way’s End, but not the horrible
family of wooden bears, or the olive-wood box, or the really dreadful
photograph frame—silver filagree upon red plush. These bespoke Miss
Cannock, and he found himself most savagely resenting them. The frame
contained a photograph of the Professor, a badly taken snapshot several
times enlarged. From the resulting blur he gathered that Henry
Postlethwaite had taken to a beard.

His frown deepened. What was Miss Cannock doing taking snapshots of the
Professor, having them enlarged, and framing them? It seemed to him that
the old man wanted looking after. True, he had managed to remain a
bachelor for seventy years or so, but he was so vague that a determined
woman might almost marry him before he woke up sufficiently to resist.
He thought Meg had better take the matter in hand. The prospect of
having the Cannock as an aunt was most unnerving.

He had another look at the hall, and found it dark and empty. Even
considering the afternoon, no house ought to be as dark as this.

He emerged and looked about him. The door immediately opposite would
lead into the drawing-room. The staircase went up on the right between
him and the front door, and rose to a gallery which ran round three
sides of the hall. The passage down which Miss Cannock had disappeared
divided the rooms at the front of the house from those at the back. He
strolled across to have a look at it, and found it even darker than the
hall. It had no window of any kind, and when the doors which gave upon
it were shut, as they were at present, it resembled one of those gloomy
corridors in an old-fashioned country hotel. Bill wondered whether it
was all one level, or whether, after the manner of such passages, it
concealed an unexpected step or two in its shadows.

He was just thinking that he had never been in any house that he liked
so little, when a door at the far end of the passage opened, letting in
a grey light, and against that light he saw Henry Postlethwaite.

With the cheerful feeling that at last something was going to happen,
Bill advanced along the passage. There was a sudden step down which
nearly cost him his balance, and as he recovered himself he heard behind
him the voice of the man-servant saying,

“This way, sir, if you please.”

This presumably meant the way he was going, so he held on with a “Hullo,
Professor!”

The door at the end of the passage remained open and afforded enough
light for him to see that Henry Postlethwaite was coming to meet him.
There was another step, up this time. He stubbed his toe, and then they
were shaking hands and he was saying,

“Very nice to see you again, Professor.”

“Yes—yes—” said Henry Postlethwaite vaguely. He stood where he was, a
stooping shadow with the leonine head and shaggy mane of hair which were
so effective in a photograph. The new beard showed as a grey blur
against his dark coat.

Bill came straight to the point. You always had to if you wanted to talk
to the Professor.

“I know you’re most awfully busy, sir, so I won’t keep you, but I want
to speak to you about Meg.”

“Ah—yes—Meg—” said Henry Postlethwaite in his gentle voice. “Ah
yes—Meg—how is she? It’s a long time since I’ve seen her.”

“If there is somewhere we can talk, sir—”

The Professor patted his shoulder.

“Yes—yes. Are you in London—are you making any stay?”

“I’m home for good, sir. The firm is giving me my uncle’s place on the
board. But I wanted to talk to you about Meg.”

It was exactly like the Professor to prop the wall, and to remain
impervious to any attempts to shift him. Well, if he had got to talk
about Meg’s affairs in a passage, he had got to, and that was all about
it. He wasn’t going away without talking about them, and at least Miss
Cannock had made herself scarce.

“Yes—yes—” said Henry Postlethwaite—“in town, you say. Then I wonder
if you would find it troublesome to go to Malverey’s in the Strand and
ask them whether they have been able to trace that early pamphlet of
Hoppenglocker’s that I have been inquiring about. If I could show over
his own signature—”

Bill repressed a groan.

“All right,” he said. “But about Meg, Professor—I wonder if you’ve had
all her letters. She’s in a very difficult position, and I think she’s
more than hard up—I believe she’s starving herself. I don’t know what
O’Hara had to leave, but she can’t touch any of it until his death has
been proved. I’m trying to make her see her solicitor—she ought to have
done it long ago, but—”

The Professor laid a hand upon his arm.

“Yes, yes, my dear boy—but just now I haven’t time. Of course if Meg
wants money—she’d better write to me and tell me how she stands. Did
you say she had written? These country post offices are not always very
efficient, which is why I should be grateful if you would look in at
Malverey’s for me about that pamphlet. The early Hoppenglockers are
scarce—very scarce—and before I’ve done with him Hoppenglocker will be
wishing they were scarcer still, because if my memory serves me
right—and I think it does—in fact I’m sure it does—he has committed
himself to a statement—I believe it is on page four—which I can use
with really pulverising effect. Hoppenglocker may have forgotten what he
wrote in 1903, but I have not.” He finished on a triumphant note, patted
Bill on the shoulder, and said, “You won’t forget—Malverey’s in the
Strand,” and, turning, began to walk back along the passage.

Bill hurried after him.

“But, sir—one moment—” Then, in desperation, “I don’t know the name of
the pamphlet you want.”

Henry Postlethwaite checked that drifting walk of his. He half turned
and spoke over his shoulder.

“Number three in the first series—_Wesensgleichheit der Wissenschaft_.
I have the other two. At least—” he put his hand to his head and
dragged at his hair—“at least I should have—but this move—I must ask
Miss Cannock—an invaluable secretary—invaluable.”

“I don’t think I got that name, Professor. You’ll have to write it down
for me. Perhaps if we could come somewhere where there’s a bit more
light—”

“Yes, yes,” said Henry Postlethwaite—“number three in the first series.
And I’m pretty sure the passage I want is on the fourth page—rather
near the top—a right-hand page.” He produced a note-book and tore out a
leaf, which he handed to Bill. “Write it down—write it down. I’ll give
you a pencil. Ah, here you are! Now write it down carefully, so that
there’s no mistake—_Wesensgleichheit der Wissenschaft_.” He spelt the
words out letter by letter.

Bill put the paper in his pocket.

“Professor, I really do want to have a talk with you.”

Henry Postlethwaite began to walk away from him again.

“Another day, my dear boy, another day.”

“But Meg, Professor—her affairs won’t wait. I wouldn’t be worrying you
like this if they weren’t urgent. She won’t take money from me, and—”

The Professor stopped by the half open door through which he had come.

“No, no—of course not,” he said—“naturally not—she wouldn’t care to
do that. She had better come down here. Yes, yes, she had better come
down here on a visit. Tell her to write to Miss Cannock. I am very
busy—very busy indeed. And you won’t forget to go to Malverey’s, my
dear boy, because that is important. And now if you will excuse me.” He
went through the doorway and shut the door behind him.

Bill turned with an exasperated shrug of the shoulders and made his way
back to the gloomy hall. There was no one in sight, and there seemed to
be nothing to wait for.

He found his hat, let himself out, and proceeded once again to skirt the
lake. Quite definitely a mist was now rising off the water. There was a
smell of rotting leaves. He looked back at the house and thought of Meg
going to stay there, and hoped with all his heart that she wouldn’t go.

He walked on, and just where the drive rose he halted again for a last
look at the island. He supposed that the Professor had gone back to it
by now. Very bad for him shutting himself up like that. Meg ought to try
and shake him out of it. The old woman who had built the house on the
island and then walled it all round like a prison must have been as mad
as a hatter. You could just see one window over the top of the wall, and
no more. The house had a gable, and the window showed—a bare foot of
it. He was just going to turn away, when this small square of glass
broke suddenly. Something came through it with violence—something with
an edge to it that showed for a moment and then was gone, with the
effect of having been snatched away.

Bill stared, but could see no more than a dark star-shaped splintering
of the glass behind which nothing moved. No sound came from it. Only a
very loud sound would have carried that distance. There was no sound at
all.

Bill walked on. Someone had broken a window. It was odd, but it wasn’t
his business.




                                   XI


“I don’t want you to go,” said Bill Coverdale.

“Beggars can’t be choosers,” said Meg O’Hara.

They were in Meg’s sitting-room. The time was about eleven o’clock in
the morning, and Bill had been giving an account of his visit to Ledstow
the day before. With a good deal of reluctance he passed on Henry
Postlethwaite’s invitation. Meg might have felt reluctant too if she had
either seen Ledstow Place—or not been so hungry. Everything is
comparative, and the comparison between dry bread and milkless tea for
breakfast, lunch, and supper in London, with three if not four meals a
day in even the dreariest of country places, is all in favour of the
latter. Also, the tea was running out, and by the end of the week the
money would have run out too and there wouldn’t be any more bread. So
Meg O’Hara said, “Beggars can’t be choosers,” and managed a smile as she
said it.

“Come out and lunch with me,” said Bill abruptly.

Meg brightened a little.

“It’s too early for lunch,” she said.

Bill had another timely recollection.

“Come and have an elevens. We can have lunch afterwards.”

Meg hesitated for a moment. Was she going to tell him that there had
been someone in the flat the night he had brought her home? She wasn’t
sure. If it wasn’t Robin, she could tell him, but if it was—if it was—

“No good bottling things up.” Bill’s voice was very quiet. “You’d better
tell me what’s been happening.”

It was no good—she must tell him. She couldn’t bear it alone. If you
hadn’t anyone to talk to, you stopped seeing things as they really were.
They got bigger and bigger until you felt as if something was going to
burst.

She told Bill about the lights having gone wrong, and about waking up in
the night and hearing someone in the sitting-room.

“Pity you didn’t see who it was,” said Bill when she had finished.

A light shudder ran over Meg. Suppose she had had a match. Suppose she
had struck it and seen Robin—looking at her. He had looked at her in so
many ways—lightly, appraisingly, coldly, tauntingly, cruelly, and with
what she had taken for love. That hurt most to remember now. The shudder
threatened to become uncontrollable. Whoever had been in her
sitting-room that night has passed her so near that they might with any
unreckoned movement have touched. If he had touched her, she would have
known whether it was Robin O’Hara.

Bill’s voice broke in upon her thought.

“Why wouldn’t the lights go on?”

This at least was easily answered.

“Because the bulbs had been taken out.”

“The hall light was all right when you went in.”

“Yes, I know, Bill—that was clever, because if the hall light hadn’t
gone on, you would have come in to see what was the matter. But I didn’t
find out there was anything wrong till you had gone, and of course I
hadn’t got a candle, so I just left the hall light on and my door open.
Then, after I was asleep, my door was shut and the hall bulb taken
away.” The shiver went over her again.

“Where were the bulbs?”

“One on the sitting-room mantelpiece—that was the one I found and put
in—and the others on the kitchen table.”

“What was he looking for?” said Bill.

“Do you think he as looking for something?”

“Must have been, otherwise the whole show is pointless.”

Meg shook her head. She was very white. Her eyes avoided his.

“It might have been—to frighten me.”

“Why should anyone want to frighten you? Who would want to frighten
you?”

Her silence said the name she would not speak. If she had had any other
name in her mind she would have spoken it aloud.

“It’s the most preposterous nonsense!” said Bill violently.

Meg nodded. She was thinking of other preposterous things which Robin
O’Hara had done.

“My dear girl, be practical!” said Bill. “Nobody took all that trouble
and risk for nothing. Oh yes, it was a risk all right—I might have come
in with you and caught him on the premises.”

She shook her head.

“No—he wasn’t here then.”

“How do you know?” His voice was quick and angry.

“I don’t know how I know, but I do know. There wasn’t anyone here when I
came in.”

“You mean he came and took out the bulbs and went away again, and then
came back when you were asleep?”

She nodded.

“Yes, that’s how it was. I’m quite sure there wasn’t anyone here when I
came home.”

Bill was frowning heavily.

“Have you been through the drawer? Is anything missing?”

She made a little helpless gesture.

“I don’t know. You see, the things in that drawer weren’t mine—at least
most of them weren’t. It was Robin’s drawer, and I’ve never really been
through it. I suppose I ought to have, but—” Her voice died away on the
word.

“So you’ve no means of knowing whether anything was taken?”

She shook her head in a hesitating way. Then she said rather
breathlessly,

“The card might have come from there.”

“What card?”

She got up, went over to the writing-table, and came back again. There
was a small white card in her hand. She laid it on Bill’s outstretched
palm and went and sat down again. She was glad to sit down again,
because her knees were shaking.

Bill looked at Robin O’Hara’s card and said sharply,

“Where was this?”

Meg pointed at the little walnut table, now heaped with books and
papers.

“_That_ was out in the middle of the room. All the books and papers had
been cleared off it. They were on the sofa. There wasn’t anything on the
table except that card.”

Bill stared at the printed name—_Mr Robin O’Hara_. Then he turned the
card over and sat up straight.

“Why do you think this card came out of the drawer?”

“Because there’s about half a packet of Robin’s cards there.”

“Get them, will you? I’d like to have a look a them.”

She brought him the narrow yellow box, still loosely folded in its white
wrapping-paper. The lid came off and the cards ran out upon the wide arm
of the chair. A single glance was enough. He said sharply,

“I thought not. That card never came out of this box—at least not this
year, Meg.”

“What do you mean?”

He held up the card which she had given him.

“Look! This isn’t a new card out of a box—it’s a card that’s been
knocking about in somebody’s wallet. Look at the colour beside one of
these. And look at the corners—worn—you see?”

Meg saw. It was impossible to help seeing what was so evident once it
had been pointed out. But it didn’t seem to her to make any difference,
except that this worn card was more of a witness to Robin’s presence
than a brand new one would have been. It had been with him through these
months of absence. He had touched it and handled it. She knew just where
it had lain in his wallet. And with that she had a sudden stab of
terror, because Robin’s wallet had come empty out of the river a year
ago.

The telephone bell rang, and went on ringing. Even after she had put the
receiver to her ear, it went on upon a ghostly thrumming note. She shook
the instrument and said, “Hullo!” She shook it, and the note went on
buzzing in her ear. Then all of a sudden it stopped, and a man was
speaking.

“Is that Mrs O’Hara?”

Bill heard her say “Yes,” and then “Oh yes, I am.” And after that, “What
is it?... Oh yes, I could.... Yes, I think I’d rather.... Yes, twelve
o’clock would be all right for me.” She rang off and turned round to
Bill.

“That was the bank manager—Robin’s bank. He wants to see me. He won’t
say why.” She spoke in a slow, troubled voice.

Bill laughed a little.

“I should say at a guess you’re overdrawn.”

She shook her head.

“I haven’t got anything to overdraw. It’s not my bank—it’s Robin’s.
I’ve never had an account there.”

“Then it can’t be anything to bother you.”

She said, “I don’t know,” letting the words fall slowly. And then, “Will
you come with me, Bill? I don’t want to go alone. You see, the only
think I can think of—the only reason he might want to see me—is
something to do with that packet I told you about. I was to open it in
the manager’s presence if Robin was dead. It might be something to do
with that, and it if is, I would like you to be there.”

Bill shook his head.

“It won’t be that, Meg—he’d want legal proof before he’d let you open
it. But of course I’ll come.”

He made her have a cup of coffee and something to eat on the way. His
relief at seeing how much better she looked after the food and the hot
drink was off-set by exasperation and distress. If she wasn’t starving
herself, a cup of coffee and a bun wouldn’t bring her colour back like
that. He cursed the conventions with all his heart. They permitted him
to take Meg out and feed her, but forbade him to finance her so that she
could feed herself at home. At least that seemed to be Meg’s point of
view.

They were shown into the manager’s private room. He rose to greet them,
shook hands, and asked them to be seated, with an air of brisk
efficiency. Meg’s introduction of Bill as an old friend who was helping
her with her business affairs was received with a hard look which only
just fell short of being a stare. Not, Bill thought, a genial person, in
fact a good deal the reverse, but efficient, undoubtedly efficient. A
little man with black hair and a cocksure carriage of the head. He
leaned forward in his chair, facing them across the table, and rapped
upon his blotting-pad with the fingers of his left hand. It was rather
as if they were a class and he was calling it to order. He said,

“I have asked you to come here, Mrs O’Hara, because I was anxious to
know whether you can give me any information with regard to your
husband.” His eyes were sharp on Meg’s face. They saw her wince.

She said, “But, Mr Lane—” and then stopped. Her eyes went to Bill.

Bill leaned forward.

“Mrs O’Hara, on the advice of her friends, is about to ask leave to
presume her husband’s death. We believe that it will be granted. There
is—evidence which has lately become available.”

Mr Lane transferred that very direct gaze of his to Bill.

“Evidence of Mr O’Hara’s death?”

“Yes.”

“What kind of evidence?”

“I’m not at liberty to say, but the application will undoubtedly
succeed.”

Mr Lane looked down at his blotting-pad. There was for a moment a
certain effect of rigidity. It seemed to Bill as if he had just heard
something which surprised him very much, and that he did not wish to
show that he had been surprised.

The effect passed. He looked up again at Meg and asked quickly,

“Then you have not seen your husband lately?”

It was Bill who said, “Of course she hasn’t!” And after than Meg
answered in a wavering voice,

“Oh no!”

“Or heard from him?” said Mr Lane quite unabashed.

“Mr Lane,” said Bill, “Robin O’Hara disappeared over a year ago.
Evidence is now available to show that he met with his death by
misadventure at the time of that disappearance or a little later. Now
may I ask what you are driving at?”

Mr Lane said, “Certainly.” He leaned back in his chair and addressed
them both. “A week before he disappeared Mr O’Hara deposited a packet
with us for safe custody. He told me that it contained papers of
considerable importance, and that he wished to safeguard them by
imposing some very stringent and unusual conditions. He wrote those
conditions down and insisted that we should both sign them. The
conditions were as follows. During his lifetime the packet was only to
be surrendered to him in person, he himself signing for it in my
presence. In the event of his death, it was to be surrendered to his
wife, who was similarly to sign for it in my presence. The packet was
then to be opened, and she was to consult with me as to the disposal of
the contents. I have no idea what the packet contains, except that Mr
O’Hara once informed me that he was doing government work of a
confidential nature, and I concluded that the papers about which he was
taking such precautions had some connection with this work. When Mrs
O’Hara informed me that her husband was missing, and that it was feared
he was dead, I told her what I am now repeating. I added that I
considered myself bound by the conditions under which I had accepted the
packet, and that it would therefore be necessary for the death to be
proved legally before I could consider that the second of the
contingencies provided for had arisen.” He spoke with an air of being
pleased with his own lucidity.

Meg said “Yes?” in a faintly inquiring voice.

Bill said, “Well?”

Mr Lane went on speaking. He leaned forward. His delivery became less
measured, and he tapped on his blotting-pad to emphasize a salient
point.

“I will now come to my reasons for wanting to see you, Mrs O’Hara. At
ten o’clock this morning, as soon as the doors were open, I received a
letter asking me to deliver to the bearer the packet deposited by Mr
O’Hara.”

“_What?_” said Bill. Then he looked at Meg. She was very pale indeed.
Her hands clasped one another tightly. Her face had a pinched and
horrified look. He saw her try to speak, and he saw her fail. He asked
what she had not been able to ask.

“A letter? You say you had a letter. Who wrote it?”

The manager opened a drawer on his left, drew out a thin sheet of paper,
and laid it down on the blotting-pad before him.

“It was signed by Mr O’Hara,” he said drily, and once again his eyes
were on them both with that look which was not quite a stare.

Meg spoke then. She said,

“Robin—” in a small quivering voice.

“Robin O’Hara,” said Mr Lane briskly. He lifted the sheet of paper and
passed it across the table.

It was Bill who took it—an ordinary sheet of typing paper with
yesterday’s date and no heading—a brief typed note:

    “Dear Sir,

    Kindly hand over to bearer the packet which I left in your
    charge just over a year ago.

                                                 Yours faithfully
                                                     Robin O’Hara.”

The noticeable ornamental signature with its upward thrust stared from
the white paper. Bill stared back at it. When Meg put out a hand he gave
her the letter. Their fingers touched. Hers were very cold. He thought
they were too stiff and cold to shake.

She read the letter through and put it back on the table. Mr Lane picked
it up. None of them had spoken a single word.

The silence went on until Bill said bluntly,

“What did you do?”

Mr Lane tapped the blotting-pad.

“There was only one thing I could possibly do.”

“You refused?”

Mr Lane’s manner became rather more reserved.

“I wrote a line to Mr O’Hara reminding him of the conditions which he
had himself laid down, and asked him to call for the packet at his
convenience.”

Meg made a sudden movement.

“Why did you want to see me?” she said, her voice low but perfectly
controlled.

“Because,” said Mr Lane, “to be quite frank, Mrs O’Hara, I wanted to
know whether you had any knowledge of your husband’s whereabouts, and I
also wished to ask you for your opinion of this signature.”

Meg’s eyes widened. She took up the letter, looked at it for a long
time, and then gave it to Bill.

“It’s Robin’s signature,” she said.

After one quick glance at the manager’s imperturbable face Bill reversed
the sheet and studied the signature upside down. Mr Lane’s hand offered
him a magnifying glass.

“Satisfy yourself. I see you know how the ordinary forgery is done.” He
turned to Meg in explanation. “Forgers usually turn a signature upside
down and copy it stroke for stroke as if they were drawing. A magnifying
glass will show where the pen has been lifted. But if this is a forgery,
it wasn’t done that way.”

Bill had been looking through the magnifying glass. He put it down now
and said,

“No, there’s no break.”

“None at all,” said Mr Lane. “I naturally subjected it to a careful
scrutiny. May I ask whether you were familiar with Mr O’Hara’s
signature?”

“Yes—we were at school and college together.”

“And you would say that this—”

“I should have said that he had written it, if I didn’t know that it was
impossible.”

“And your reason for supposing it to be impossible?”

“I have told you—I believe O’Hara to be dead.”

“And you, Mrs O’Hara?”

“I—don’t—know,” said Meg in a faint, steady voice.

There was a pause. Then Bill said,

“The man who brought this letter—what was he like?”

“District Messenger,” said Mr Lane drily. “His instructions were to take
the answer back to the office. I asked him to describe the person who
had commissioned him, and he gave a description which might have applied
to Mr O’Hara.”

“What did he say?” said Meg quickly.

“A gentleman in a blue suit and a bowler hat—not out of the way tall,
but taller than some. He couldn’t say whether he was dark or fair, he
hadn’t noticed. He supposed he might have noticed if the gentleman had
been very much one way or the other. He couldn’t say what colour his
eyes were. The gentleman was a very pleasant gentleman. He said he’d
call back at the office for the answer.”

“Not a very useful description,” said Bill. “It would fit a good many
thousands of people.”

Mr Lane nodded.

“Exactly. I did my best to check up on it by instructing one of the
clerks to follow the messenger.”

“You did?”

“With very disappointing results,” said Mr Lane. “The clerk followed him
all the way to the office and hung about there for some time. When the
messenger came out again, he made some excuse and asked him about the
answer. Well, the boy said the gentleman had met him outside the bank,
so he had given him the answer there. It must have been just before the
clerk came out. He couldn’t add anything to his description except that
the gentleman was a real gentleman and had tipped him five shillings.”

“I see,” said Bill.




                                  XII


“What does it mean Bill?” said Meg as they walked away.

“I don’t know,” said Bill Coverdale.

“It was Robin’s signature.”

“It looked like his signature. But I’m asking why the letter should have
been typed, or why it should have been written at all. You see, Robin
evidently considered the packet very important. He laid down those very
strict conditions about its surrender, and he would know perfectly well
that the manager couldn’t go back on them. That packet wasn’t to be
handed over to anyone except Robin in person or you in person—Robin, if
he was alive, or you if he was dead. Now nobody who had made those
conditions would be likely to have forgotten them.”

“Robin might,” said Meg. “You know, Bill, he took things up for a bit
and—and dropped them.” That was what Robin had done with her, taken her
up and—dropped her. Her breath caught for a moment, but she went on.
“He ran things hard, and then—lost interest. They were everything one
minute and nothing the next. He _might_ have made those conditions and
forgotten them—I do really think he might.”

Bill frowned over that. He said,

“I doubt it. But if he’d lost interest enough to be hazy and indifferent
about the packet, why should he want it at all? And if he did want it,
why not write a holograph letter, which he must have known would carry a
great deal more weight than a bare signature? It seems to me that
there’s only one possible reason for that letter’s being typed, and that
is that the forger knew he could fake a perfect signature, but was
afraid to risk anything more. Did you ever know Robin to type a letter?”

Quite unexpectedly, Meg said, “Yes.”

“When?”

“He got a typewriter about a month before he—went. It was a new toy,
and he was typing everything.”

“He didn’t take it with him?”

“No—I sold it the other day. But you see, he might have typed this
letter. And if he didn’t, who did, Bill? That’s what I keep asking
myself. Who sent me that paper? Who has been into the flat—twice, and
each time left something to make me think Robin is alive? Who _is_ it,
if it isn’t Robin?”

She was so pale that he put his hand on her arm.

“We’re going to have lunch. We can’t talk like this in the street. It’s
early still, so we’ll get a quiet table if we come in here. Then I’ll
tell you what I think.”

She followed him into one of those small lunch-rooms which have
multiplied during the last few years. It was painted in primrose and
green—green walls, green floor, green ceiling; primrose linen, primrose
china; and waitresses in primrose smocked with green, pretty girls with
the air of amateurs at a charity bazaar. There was a table in an alcove
which promised privacy.

The prettiest waitress brought them soup in porringers and withdrew. The
soup was good and hot. Meg was very glad of it. She felt shaken and
bewildered. She waited for Bill to tell her what he thought, and Bill
waited to see her colour come back, because just now in the street he
had been afraid that she was going to faint.

When the porringers had been taken away, and a chicken and mushroom stew
had been set before them in a primrose casserole, he said,

“You’ve got to eat before we talk, and when we’ve talked I’m going to
put it across you, so you’d better brace up and have a good lunch,
because you’re going to want it. I’m feeling pretty fierce.”

He got a smile which shook him a little. Meg said aloud,

“You’re _frightfully_ good to me, Bill.”

In her heart she felt, “Why have we got to go on like this? It’s been so
long—I’m so tired. Why have we got to go on talking about Robin? I’m
too tired to go on. He was cruel. I’m young—I want to be happy. Perhaps
Bill doesn’t love me any more—perhaps he does....” The thoughts went to
and fro in her mind while she listened to Bill talking about Ledstow,
and the Professor, and Miss Cannock. She was glad that he didn’t want to
go on talking about Robin until she had eaten something and got rid of
that muzzy feeling in her head. You ought to be able to live on dry
bread, but when you are not used to it you get an uncomfortable sort of
feeling of being too light. Ever since yesterday she had felt as if
there wasn’t anything really to prevent her floating slowly up into the
air. It was difficult to think clearly when you had this sort of
feeling.

She ate her stew, and the law of gravity resumed its normal action. Bill
insisted on cheese, biscuits, and coffee. By the time they had come to
the coffee Meg had herself in hand again. It wasn’t any use being a
coward and not wanting to talk about Robin, because they’d got to. And
it wasn’t any use saying “I can’t go on,” because whatever happened you
had to go on, and if you had a scrap of decent feeling, you kept your
head up and tried not to make things hard for other people. There was no
point, for instance, in harrowing Bill. With all her professed
uncertainty as to the state of his affections, Meg was sure that it
would be terribly easy to harrow Bill. She must therefore be sensible,
practical, and a number of other things all rather difficult. What she
didn’t guess was that her strained courage tried Bill Coverdale higher
than her tears would have done. It was so obvious that she was holding
on to it with every bit of her strength, and he wanted so terribly to
take her in his arms and let her cry there.

“Perhaps we’d better talk now,” he said. “Now, Meg—we’ve got to talk
quite plainly or it’s no good talking at all. Let’s start with the
packet. I’ve got a hunch about that packet—I’ve got a feeling that it’s
very important. Just listen a minute. You say, who sent you the marked
newspaper with the letters spelling out ‘I am alive’? You say, who’s
been twice in the flat and each time left something there to make you
think that Robin is alive? The first time it was the word ‘alive’ laid
out with slips of paper on the hearth-rug. The second time it was one of
Robin’s visiting-cards. Now I want you to cast your mind back to what
was going on when those things happened. The first thing, the newspaper,
was in January, wasn’t it? And when you told me about it you said
Garratt had been urging you to see a lawyer. I asked you if you had seen
one, and you said no, because things had begun to happen, things that
made you believe that Robin was alive. Garratt had been telling you he
was dead, and then this marked newspaper came along and made you think
what the person who put it in at your letter-box wanted you to
think—that Robin wasn’t dead. _And you didn’t go to your lawyer._”

Meg looked at him with startled eyes.

“You mean—”

“Wait a minute. The next thing was someone coming into your flat and
laying out the word ‘Alive’ on your hearth-rug in slips of
writing-paper. That was in February, and it happened just after you made
up your mind to go and see Mr Pincott after all. You had written to the
Professor and been told that he wasn’t attending to his personal
letters, so you got desperate and made an appointment with Mr
Pincott—and right there you came home and found those letters on the
hearth-rug. _And you didn’t go and see the lawyer that time either._”

“I couldn’t,” said Meg. “Bill, I _couldn’t_.”

Bill put out a hand and drew it back again.

“That is exactly what you were meant to feel. Then in July you lost your
job, had another shot at the Professor, failed, and once more screwed
yourself up to seeing Mr Pincott. You didn’t get as far as making an
appointment with him that time—did you?”

“No—I hadn’t time.”

“And before you had time someone put what might have been one of your
own envelopes in at your letter-box. There was nothing inside except a
leaf—a maple leaf—and on this leaf someone had pricked out the word
‘Alive.’ _And you gave up the idea of going to see Mr Pincott._”

“Bill—”

“Wait a minute. Now we come down to the present day. I come along, and I
urge you to see Pincott. Garratt urges you to see Pincott, and says his
people will back you up in an application to presume Robin’s death.
What’s the result? Someone walks into your flat in the middle of the
night and leaves Robin’s visiting-card on a polished table which has
been carefully cleared and put bang under the light where you can’t miss
it—all very melodramatic and impressive. Now, Meg, think—think hard!
What’s at the back of all this? Someone who doesn’t want you to get
proof of Robin’s death. Why? What happens when you get your proof—what
is the first thing you do? You go to the bank with it, and you and the
manager open the packet which Robin tied up with such very strict
conditions. That’s where we get down to brass tacks. I don’t know what’s
in the packet, and you don’t know what’s in the packet—but someone
does, and that someone is prepared to go to pretty dangerous lengths to
prevent its being opened.”

Meg looked at him with tired, steady eyes.

“But don’t you see, it all points to Robin. You say it’s someone who
knows what’s in the packet. Robin knows. You say someone doesn’t want
the packet to be opened. Robin wouldn’t want anyone to know his affairs
as long as he was alive. The person who came into the flat had a
key—Robin’s key. He had Robin’s card—an old card that had been carried
about in a wallet. Don’t you see that it points to Robin all the time?”

“Wait, Meg—I haven’t finished. You’ve got to take today’s attempt to
get hold of the packet. Now it may have been a serious attempt, or it
may not. That would depend on how much was known about the conditions.
If the conditions of surrender were known, no one could have hoped to
get away with it on the strength of a signature to a typewritten letter
presented by a messenger-boy. But the conditions may not have been
known—I don’t believe this, but I feel bound to put it in as a
possibility—or there was no serious expectation of getting hold of the
papers, the real object being to strengthen your belief that Robin was
still alive, and to make the bank manager sit up and start thinking
along the same lines. In other words, it was a try-on of the same kind
as the others.”

“And doesn’t that point to Robin?” said Meg. “It does—you must see that
it does.”

“No, it doesn’t,” said Bill bluntly. “If it was Robin who was nervous
about the packet and wanted to make sure it wasn’t handed over to anyone
else while he was alive, he’d only got to walk into the manager’s office
and show himself. That’s one absolutely solid reason why I don’t believe
it was Robin.”

Meg said in a voice so low that the words only just reached him,

“He wanted me—not to be sure—”

“Meg, _why_?”

She leaned her head on her hand. It had not seemed possible that any
words could be fainter, but what she said now had so little breath
behind it that it seemed to Bill as if he were hearing her thoughts.

“He was angry—because I said—I would divorce him. He said—I wouldn’t
find it so easy—”

Bill looked at her. Because her eyes were hidden, he could just for that
space let all his passion of love and anger have free course. Was it
possible that the truth was behind Meg’s whispered words? That Robin
O’Hara was capable of a cruel revenge he had no doubt. There was a
devilish ingenuity about the man which would have fitted him into a plot
like this. Meg had threatened to divorce him, and he had told her that
she would not find it so easy—and by gum, he was right. As long as his
fate was uncertain, he had Meg tied to him. If she could prove that he
was alive, she could divorce him. If she could prove that he was dead,
she would be free. It would be most entirely like Robin O’Hara to keep
her in a torturing uncertainty. He said,

“Meg, _don’t_! We’ve got to think straight, and we’ve got to talk it
out. If it was Robin who wanted the packet, he could have gone to the
manager, and if he wanted him to keep his mouth shut he could have bound
him to secrecy. I don’t believe Robin was behind today’s attempt. There
isn’t any earthly reason why he should have typed a letter that he could
just as easily have written with his own hand. No—it was a try-on, and
it was meant to make you and the bank manager feel shaky about assuming
that Robin was dead.”

Meg dropped her hand and looked at him.

“And do you think that anyone who was playing a trick like that would
have dared come right up to the bank to meet the messenger-boy and take
the answer from him? No—it was Robin—_it was Robin_.”

How horrible to be afraid that it was Robin—to be afraid that Robin was
alive. If anyone had said to her two years ago, “You’ll be afraid to
know that he is alive,” it would have seemed the maddest lie in the
world.

Bill shook his head.

“That’s bad reasoning, Meg. Why on earth should Robin have sent a
messenger-boy at all if he could come to the bank himself? It’s arguable
that he might have sent for the packet if for some reason he couldn’t
come, but if he could come right up to the bank, he could walk in and
get the packet. As for its being a risk for anyone who was playing a
trick, I don’t see that at all. The manager took a very unusual course
in having the messenger-boy followed, and supposing this man had thought
of that possibility, why, the very safest place for him to meet the boy
and take the answer would be just as he came out of the bank, because
that’s just what nobody would be expecting, and if the boy was being
followed, it would be certain to be at some little distance—he would be
able to count on that.”

“Robin would be able to count on that,” said Meg. “It’s no use, Bill. I
think you’re right in nearly everything you say. I don’t think it was a
serious attempt to get hold of the packet. I think it was a try-on, but
I think it was Robin’s try-on. He wants to make sure that the packet
won’t be opened, and he wants to keep me from being sure whether he’s
alive or dead. It’s a trick, but it’s Robin’s trick. It’s no good going
on talking about it. You’d better start scolding me—you said you were
going to, but you didn’t say why.”

Bill’s expression changed. She was right, it was no good their going on
talking about it, and meanwhile he’d got to stop her starving herself.
He said bluntly,

“I should think you could guess why. This starving business has got to
stop. You’ve got to have some money to go on with. Call it a loan or
anything you like, and if it makes you any happier, I’ll swear to dun
the Professor for it.”

Meg smiled at him with a sudden bewildering sweetness.

“All right,” she said in rather a shaky voice. “And don’t scold me any
more, because I was going to ask you—I really was. Will you lend me
five pounds? And you shall get it out of Uncle Henry if you can, but I
warn you that it will be a tough job. I sometimes think there’s a method
about Uncle Henry’s vagueness, because it always comes on extra bad the
minute anyone starts talking about money—especially if it’s his money
and they want some of it.”

Bill frowned.

“Five pounds is all nonsense!”

She shook her head.

“Bill, you’re a lamb, and I know you’d produce fifty without a murmur
and never bother whether Uncle Henry paid you back or not. But I don’t
want more than five pounds, because I’ve made up my mind to go down to
Ledstow. I wouldn’t borrow at all, only to be quite honest, I’m down to
my last half-crown and that wouldn’t get me there, so I’ll take the five
pounds and say thank you kindly.”

“I don’t like your going to Ledstow,” said Bill.

“Nor do I,” said Meg.

“Then don’t go.”

Meg laughed a little sadly.

“Needs must when necessity drives.”




                                  XIII


“Well, that’s where we are,” said Bill Coverdale. He addressed Colonel
Garratt, who was sitting with his back to him rummaging in one of the
drawers of his writing-table.

There was a pause, during which Garratt dragged a file from the recesses
of the drawer, dumped it on the floor, and then rummaged again.

“I suppose you haven’t been listening by any chance?” said Bill
presently.

Garratt turned a grinning face over his shoulder. The grin was a
malevolent one.

“Every word. And if you want to know what I think about
it—_poppy-cock_!”

“Why?” said Bill from the depths of the least uncomfortable chair.

Garratt spun his chair round and tipped it back at a dangerous angle
against the table.

“Why? Because it _is_ poppy-cock. And if you weren’t in a besotted frame
of mind about this young woman, you’d know it was poppy-cock. Good Lord!
Marked newspapers slipped into letter-boxes and then vanishing into thin
air—visiting-cards at midnight—leaves with mysterious messages pricked
on ’em—letters on the hearth-rug! Your young woman wants a husband to
look after her, and you’d better marry her and take her away for a
change of air. I hope for your sake she’ll lay off the hysteric stunt,
because if she don’t you’ll have your work cut out.”

Bill kept his temper. He said:

“Are you suggesting that she was the gentleman in the nice blue suit and
bowler hat who sent the messenger-boy to the bank this morning? She’s
got an alibi for that, you know, because I was talking to her when the
manager rang up. Or are you going to prove that she was the thug who
followed me into Minnett’s Row and blew off the top of my ear? I’m
afraid that’s no go either, because there really wasn’t time for her to
get into trousers and pursue me—and I’m prepared to swear to the
trousers. Of course she might have had ’em on under her evening dress
all the time she was dining with me and going to the theatre—there’s
such a lot of room under the sort of skirts girls are wearing that no
one would notice a flimsy little extra like a pair of trousers!”

Garratt made the most hideous grimace.

“I thought you said it was dark?”

“So it was. But when he legged it he legged it good and proper, and I’m
prepared to swear the legs were in trousers. No one could have run like
that in a long flapping chiffon skirt and high-heeled shoes.”

“Meaning Mrs O’Hara had a long flapping skirt and high-heeled shoes?
Well, you can have all that, because I didn’t think she’d been shooting
at you. Why should she?” He shrugged his shoulders. “You may have
annoyed someone else who was keen on her, or it may have been a playful
drunk, or—” He looked maliciously at Bill, rolled his eyes, brought his
chair down with a thump, and swung round again to the table.

Bill came over and sat on the corner of it facing him.

“Meaning that I’d caught a touch of Meg’s complaint—hysteria being well
known to be catching. All right, have it your way, but I’d like to know
why it is your way. You don’t really believe that I faked the top off my
own ear, so I would like to know why you’re stunting that you do?
However, if you don’t want to tell me you won’t. I notice you haven’t
put up any theory about the bank business. To my mind that packet’s the
crux of the whole business.”

Garratt looked up suddenly and sharply, nodded, and looked down again.
After waiting for a moment to see if he would speak Bill went on.

“I don’t suppose you want to know what I think, but I’m going to tell
you. O’Hara deposited that packet a week before he disappeared.”

Garratt looked up again.

“Sure?”

“Dead sure. According to you he thought he’d got on the track of
something pretty big. He dropped hints, but he wasn’t giving anything
away—wanted to scoop all the honour and glory for himself, I should
say. _But_ I think he wrote down what he’d got hold of up to date, and I
think that packet has got his notes in it, and any bits of evidence he
may have come across. Now is there any way of getting that packet handed
over?”

Garratt shook his head.

“Only by getting leave to presume O’Hara’s death. Has she been to her
lawyer?”

“She won’t,” said Bill.

Garratt swore, not noisily, but with concentrated bitterness.

“Why won’t she?”

“She thinks O’Hara’s alive. I don’t and you don’t, but she does. Well,
if O’Hara is alive, he wouldn’t want that packet to be opened.”

“Damn nonsense!” snapped Garratt. “O’Hara’s dead!”

“You think so—Meg doesn’t. She thinks he’s lying low for his own
ends—to prevent her getting a divorce amongst other things. Suppose
that’s so, and suppose he’s got other reasons for wanting to be thought
dead—reasons connected with the Vulture’s old gang which he was
trailing—then you see he wouldn’t want to have the packet opened
prematurely, and he’d be quite likely to take steps to stop Meg’s seeing
a lawyer or doing anything to establish his death. That’s what Meg
believes, anyhow. If you don’t believe that, then I think you’ve got to
believe that there’s someone else who is interested in the packet. Well,
who would it be? The fellow O’Hara was trailing—the fellow bossing the
Vulture’s old show over here. You say O’Hara was trailing him, and that
he knocked O’Hara out. Well, then he can’t afford to have that packet
opened—can he? Say he knows that it’ll be handed over to O’Hara’s wife
as soon as O’Hara’s proved dead—what would he be likely to do? Why,
just what somebody has been doing. If he can make Meg so doubtful about
Robin’s death that she can’t bring herself to try and prove it, he’s
safe. Don’t you see, Garratt, he’s safe as long as Meg thinks Robin is
alive. And that’s my theory—I don’t believe O’Hara is alive, but I
think someone is trying to make us believe that he is.”

“Gleams of intelligence,” said Garratt drily. “What you’ve got to do is
to take that young woman of yours by the scruff of the neck and get her
into her lawyer’s office—galvanize her and galvanize the lawyer—make
yourself damn disagreeable—ring up twenty-four times a day until he’d
rather get on with it than hear your voice on the telephone again. Your
name’ll be mud, but you’ll get a move on. We want that packet—we want
it damn badly. When we’ve got it open we shall know who’s right.” He
gave a short laugh. “Amusing if it’s only his will! I don’t suppose he
had anything to leave but debts.”

Bill put the flat of his hand on the table and leaned on it.

“Look here, Garratt—”

“What?”

“What _was_ the Vulture’s game?”

“High-class blackmail,” said Garratt—“very high-class. Used it to
produce strikes. Used it to produce political situations and then played
the markets. That was his main line. Lots of ramifications going off
into ordinary crime—dope, coining, all that sort of thing. We came into
it on the political side. We broke the Vulture—he committed suicide.
But the show went on. It’s international, and when they’ve made one
country too hot to hold ’em they move on. France has been having a
round-up, so it’ll be our turn again. We’ve never been able to stop all
the earths.”

“You think—”

“I think O’Hara got on to something. He was a fool to try and work
alone. He wouldn’t have a chance against that crowd. They got him.”

“And the packet?”

“There may be something useful there—it looks like it. Get Mrs O’Hara
going, and keep her going until we can get hold of it. It’s up to you.
And don’t swallow any of that tripe about O’Hara’s being alive. If he
ran his head into that hornets’ nest he was as good as dead before he
started.”

Bill got up to go, but when he was nearly at the door Garratt called him
back.

“About that Delorne girl—”

Bill turned round.

“Yes?”

“I’ve had a report about her. Not much in it. Not so young as she was.
The sort of actress that don’t act—hangs around the theatrical agents
once in a while. Comes and goes a good bit. Said to have been abroad.
Was in a Pierrot show at Blackpool for a few days in August—had a row
and walked out. That’s the only professional engagement there’s any
evidence of. There’s always a man in tow. Small flat in Oleander
Mansions—she’s had it for about fifteen months, but more often away
than not. No maid—daily woman when she’s there—respectable person who
works for several people in the block. Someone’s been put on to sound
her about O’Hara.” Garratt made a grimace. “The char may remember
him—Della probably won’t by now. I suppose you wouldn’t like to try
your luck with her?”

Bill smiled pleasantly.

“More in your line, Garratt,” he said, and made haste to be gone before
the storm broke.




                                  XIV


Meg went down to Ledstow that same afternoon. She sent a wire and caught
a train, refusing Bill’s offer to drive her down. She was, in fact,
running away—from Bill, from the telephone to which bank managers
called you, and from the flat of which someone else had a key. If Bill
went on coming to see her and being a perfect lamb, she would end by
crying on his shoulder, and then things would become impossible. If she
had simply got to make a fool of herself and weep on anybody’s shoulder,
it would be much safer for it to be Uncle Henry’s—much, much safer. She
didn’t want to go to Ledstow, but Ledstow would be safe.

She got to Ledstow in the dusk of a windy evening, and long before she
arrived there she was regretting Bill and the proffered car. First there
was the change at Ledlington, and three quarters of an hour to wait for
the local train to Brant. At Brant there was another change, and a
twenty minutes’ wait, after which an even slower and more local train
conveyed her and two other passengers to Deeping, which was still three
and a half miles from Ledstow. There was said to be a bus, so Meg waited
for it. As Ledstow was only seven miles from Ledlington, she had begun
to wish that she had given the trains a miss and walked, only she had a
trunk and a hat-box, and you can’t walk seven miles with a trunk and a
hat-box.

When the bus came it was very doubtful indeed about the trunk, but in
the end they permitted it to be balanced precariously upon the wide
step, where Meg and the conductor had to steady it all the way to
Ledstow.

The bus stopped at the Green Man. The problem of transport had once more
to be wrestled with. The landlord’s wife, a large solidly built woman
with a high colour and a hard eye, suggested William and the
wheelbarrow, whereupon William was produced from the garden, a lanky
hobbledehoy in a bright blue pull-over which made his red hair look
exactly like a newly scraped carrot.

There was an argument about the wheelbarrow, which was full of pig
manure—William, covered with blushes and freckles, being understood to
say that when he was gardening he was gardening, and if they didn’t want
the ground dug, well, why didn’t they say so and have done with it, and
as for putting the lady’s box in a-top of the manure, that wasn’t no way
to treat a box nor a barrow neither.

Everybody in the inn had by now gathered about Meg and her luggage—the
landlord, Mr Higgins, the large square pendant to his large square wife;
Miss Yeoman from the post-office and general shop next door who had come
in for a word with Mrs Higgins, who was her sister; and an old woman
with very thin white hair and a man’s cloth cap who appeared to be
William’s grandmother. She had a high piping voice and was full of
bright ideas.

“Tip the muck out on the marrer-bed.”

“What’s the good of that, mother?” said the publican. “Marrers is over
or next door to it.”

“Not until there’s a frost they ain’t,” said the old woman. “You tip it
out like I say, William, and your mother’ll give you a nice piece of
newspaper to put in the barrer to keep the young lady’s box from the
muck.”

Miss Yeoman stood on the top step and looked refined. She wore tight
stays, a long skirt, and a carefully controlled fringe. Her thin nose
twitched with disapproval.

William disappeared sulkily, and as sulkily returned with a large wooden
barrow which reeked of pig. It was the old woman who produced the
newspaper, sheet upon sheet, mostly _News of the World_, and then
superintended its disposal in the most efficient manner. Miss Yeoman
tittered a little, the publican and William stacked the luggage, and Meg
set off, walking beside the barrow, up the lane that skirted the
churchyard.

They were stopped, as Bill had been stopped, by the locked gates. It
really did seem the last straw after that interminable journey. When it
appeared that they would have to wait whilst a message was sent up to
the house, Meg could have wept with pure rage.

“Why do they keep the gates shut?” she said to William as they waited.

William blushed scarlet.

“I couldn’t say, I’m sure.”

The waiting seemed endless. She tried to lure William into conversation.

“Are you fond of gardening?”

William flushed an even livelier scarlet and shook his head.

“Do they always keep these gates shut?”

“I couldn’t say.”

“Do you know that boy who’s gone up with the message?”

William shook his head. A tuft of his thick red hair fell over his eyes
and he pushed it back again.

“Don’t he and the old woman belong here?”

He shook his head again, and the hair once more came down into his eyes.

Meg gave it up. She had never seen a boy who blushed so easily or who
had so many freckles. Even his ears and the back of his neck were
scarlet.

It was getting darker every minute. She thought regretfully of the world
she had once inhabited. In that world you didn’t have to wait outside a
locked gate while the garden-boy went up to the house and asked if you
could come in. Neither did you arrive on foot with your luggage in a
smelly wheelbarrow which had been used for carting pig manure. No, you
drove in, and people were waiting to welcome you and give you tea. The
thought of the hot tea of which there didn’t seem to be any earthly
chance was dreadfully unnerving. The dusk continued to fall, the
gate-woman had gone back into her cottage, William blushed silently
beside her, and the barrow smelled to heaven.

Someone came into view round the turn of the drive, and Meg’s heart
leapt up. It was a soft and affectionate heart, and the fact that Uncle
Henry had taken the trouble to come down himself and let her in had an
instant and uplifting effect. She felt that it was lambish of him—but
then of course he really was a lamb, except when he completely forgot
that you existed.

“The old gentleman’s coming,” said William in an awed tone.

The figure that was advancing towards them could not even in the half
light have been anyone except Henry Postlethwaite. The stooping figure
with the slight limp, the broad black wide-awake, the ulster with its
out-of-date shoulder-cape, were all as unmistakeable as they were
characteristic.

As he came up to the gates, Meg saw the white beard straggling across
the dark muffler. She remembered with a shock that he had grown a
beard—Bill had said so. But what a horrid, untidy thing to do. She
would have to try and get it off again.

Henry Postlethwaite came up to the gates and opened them with a key
which he took out of the ulster pocket. He threw back the right-half
leaf, and in a moment Meg had run into his arms.

“Darling, why are you all locked up like this? Is it a siege? And
weren’t you expecting me? Didn’t my wire come, or did you forget to open
it? I think it’s time you had me back to look after you. Aren’t you
pleased to see me?” She kissed a small piece of cheek and a much larger
piece of muffler.

Henry Postlethwaite patted her shoulder in the vague and amiable manner
of one who feels that a demonstration of affection is expected of him
and is anxious to do the right thing.

“Yes, yes—just so, my dear.” His voice, that very soft and gentle voice
which had a trick of dying away in the middle of a sentence, now
performed that trick. He seemed about to shut the gate, but Meg hung on
his arm.

“There’s William and my luggage, darling. Even if there is a siege, I
must have my luggage. Come along in, William.”

“Yes, yes,” said the Professor.

The wheelbarrow appeared to surprise him. He stood aside to let it pass,
and he and Meg then followed it up the overhung and gloomy drive. It was
practically dark under the trees, but William seemed to know the way.
The barrow squeaked along at a good pace, and Meg reflected that even in
the pitch dark it would be possible to follow it by scent alone. She
squeezed the Professor’s arm through the folds of the ulster.

“Darling, you haven’t told me why you’re all locked up like this. Is it
so as not to be interrupted?”

“Yes—yes—that was my reason for coming here—I told you.”

“I shouldn’t think there was anyone here to interrupt. The book ought to
get on like lightning.”

“Fairly well,” said Henry Postlethwaite—“fairly well—but I mustn’t be
interrupted.”

He was telling her that she mustn’t interrupt. But he needn’t tell her
that. It hurt after all the years they had lived together. The feeling
that she had had a long journey and no tea came over her again. She said
quickly,

“Darling, you know I won’t.”

He said, “No—no,” but not as if he really meant it.

Her hand fell from his arm. He had been shutting her out ever since she
married Robin O’Hara, but somehow she had thought it was going to be
different now. He had asked her to come, and she had thought it would be
like going back into the old times. But you can’t do that—you can’t go
back.

They came out from under the trees, and she saw the black glimmer of the
lake, and the house on the far side of it with a bright shining window
uncurtained right in the middle of its dark rectangle. She could just
make out the shape of the island against the water. There was no light
upon it. And as she looked, the lighted window in the house shut like a
closing eye. Someone had pulled down a blind, and the even dark was over
all.

They skirted the lake in silence and slowly. Henry Postlethwaite had
never been active. He had been lame for years, but she thought his limp
more pronounced and dragging than it used to be. She would have liked to
say something, to ask him how he was, but she felt that he was far away
and out of reach. A wave of homesick longing for Bill came over Meg.
There was nothing new about Uncle Henry’s going off into his own
thoughts, but just now, just tonight, it did give you the most
dreadfully isolated sort of feeling. A depressing sentiment from Matthew
Arnold came into her mind:

    “Yes, in the sea of life enisled,
     We mortal millions dwell apart.”

One of the gloomier classics. It finished on a really cheery note with
the assertion that:

    “A god, a god our severance ruled
     And bade between our shores to be
     And unplumbed salt estranging sea.”

The tears stung sharply in her eyes. What a fool she was to think about
Bill. He wasn’t here, and that was an end of it. She had come here to
get away from him, so what was the good of wishing he was here? The more
she wanted him, the more it proved that she had been right to run away.
If Robin was alive, there could be nothing but that unplumbed salt
estranging sea between her and Bill. The tears stung again. What on
earth had made her think of that mouldy poem? She supposed it was the
island, and that horrid lapping water, and the new desperate feeling
that she must, must, _must_ go back to town. No, not town—Bill.... She
had retreated as far into her thoughts as Henry Postlethwaite had into
his. Neither of them spoke a single word until they reached the house.

Henry Postlethwaite walked straight in. There was a man-servant in the
hall. He spoke to him as he passed, and went on and away out of sight.

The man-servant came forward—a nondescript middle-aged person in a grey
house-coat. His manners were so correct that William and the pig-barrow
did not ruffle them in the least. He had the luggage brought in, told
William to wait, and after showing Meg into the room where Bill had
interviewed Miss Cannock he returned to see William and the barrow down
the drive and lock the gates after them.




                                   XV


Meg was left in the strange room which contained all the familiar
furnishings of her own room at Way’s End. Somehow this seemed to make it
all the stranger. One thing was a relief at any rate—the house, remote
and isolated though it might be, was fitted with electric light. She had
expected the dimmer kind of oil lamp, and was truly grateful.

She sat down in her own favourite chair and waited for something to
happen. Uncle Henry had vanished into the blue, which was, of course,
only what one might expect. He had probably already forgotten that she
was here. The man would doubtless come back when he had locked the gates
after William. But where was Evans—and Mrs Evans? She hadn’t heard a
word about their having left, and yet if either of them had been in the
house when Bill came down, they would have made a point of seeing him.
Mrs Evans had always had the softest of soft spots for Bill, and it just
wasn’t conceivable that either of them would allow _her_ to arrive and
be received by a stranger. Perhaps they were away on a holiday and the
man in the grey coat was a stopgap. It simply wasn’t conceivable that
they should have left Uncle Henry after—how long was it?—twenty
years.... Unless they had kicked at coming to this horrible gloomy
place.... “But they wouldn’t leave Uncle Henry—they wouldn’t,” said Meg
with a quick rush of conviction. “They _wouldn’t_.”

The horrible desolate thought came to her that one or both of them might
be dead. It was a very desolate thought. There never had been a world
without Evans and Mrs Evans in it. Right back in the very beginning of
what she could remember there was Evans lifting her on to a chair with a
cushion on it for dessert, peeling an orange or an apple at the
sideboard and putting it solemnly before her, or fishing in the
preserved ginger jar with a queer long spoon, whilst Uncle Henry sipped
his port, or forgot to sip it, and looked vaguely past her at his own
thoughts. And Mrs Evans, with her deep voice and her feather-light
pastry—she used to let Meg roll out her own little lump of dough and
make a doll’s tart—only Meg’s pastry always came out a funny grey
colour, besides being as heavy as lead. “And you’ll never make a cook,
Miss Meg, not from now to doomsday.”

“Not if I try _very_ hard, Mrs Evans?”

“Trying’s no manner of use, my dear. There’s born cooks, and there’s
them you might teach for h’ever and h’every mite they cook ’ull lay as
’eavy on the stomach as if it was cobblestones. You’re one of them, Miss
Meg, and there’s no getting from it. Flying in the face of providence, I
call it, and a spoiling of good food, but so long as it’s only dolls
you’re cooking for it won’t ’urt ’em and no harm done.”

No, it really was impossible that these two pillars of Uncle Henry’s
house should have removed.

The door opened and Miss Cannock came in, beaded shoes, blue dress,
batik scarf, horn-rimmed spectacles, and fuzzy fringe all as unchanged
since Meg had last seen them as if she had lived in a glass case during
the intervening thirteen months. She shook hands in an agitated manner.

“Oh, Mrs O’Hara—I’m afraid you’ve been waiting! Mr Postlethwaite is so
forgetful—I really did not know that you had come. If I had not met
Miller, I should not have known now—and you must have been thinking it
so _strange_. But you know how it is when Mr Postlethwaite is
working—he becomes completely oblivious and—_immersed_. There is
really no other word for it.”

Meg discovered that the one thing that could make her feel worse than
she had been feeling was to have Uncle Henry explained to her by his
secretary—his quite new secretary. If it had been fat old Wallace
now—but not this little fuss-pot of a Cannock. Out loud she said
politely,

“It’s quite all right. Perhaps I can go up to my room—I’d rather like
to unpack.”

Miss Cannock continued to fuss.

“Oh yes. Miller was taking your things up—that’s how I knew you had
come. Oh yes, of course.”

“Where are the Evanses?” said Meg suddenly.

Miss Cannock repeated the name.

“Uncle Henry’s old butler and cook,” said Meg.

She was being abrupt, but she didn’t feel as if she could wait and beat
about the bush. She felt a desperate impatience to hear Miss Cannock
say, “Oh, they’re having their holiday,” or, better still, “They’ve gone
into Ledlington for the afternoon.”

Miss Cannock didn’t say either of these things. She produced a thick
crumpled linen handkerchief and used it to chafe the end of her nose as
she said in rather a flustered voice,

“Didn’t Mr Postlethwaite tell you? It was most terribly
inconvenient—just before the move too—most, most disturbing. But we
are very fortunate in Miller and his wife—a really admirable couple.”

“But, Miss Cannock—what happened—why did the Evanses leave? Was it
because they wouldn’t come here?”

Miss Cannock put away the handkerchief in an old-fashioned pocket let
into a seam of the blue skirt.

“Well, I believe it was partly that, Mrs O’Hara. But I don’t think they
were well either—I know they complained of illness. And they both left
together, which was very disturbing for Mr Postlethwaite—very
disturbing indeed. I don’t know when I have seen him so much put out.
But he was able to engage the Millers at once, and they have been most
satisfactory.”

“Did Rose go too?” said Meg.

“Oh yes,” said Miss Cannock brightly. “With her home in the village, she
didn’t wish to come away. Indeed I think she was engaged to Colonel
Johnson’s chauffeur, or thinking about it, which comes to very much the
same thing.” She opened the door and led the way into the hall. “Your
room is the one over this, and the furniture is what you used to have at
Way’s End, so I hope it will make you feel at home. Oh no—Rose wouldn’t
have cared to come away at all, and indeed we do very well without her.
The Millers are both very active, and they manage the work between them
very well.”

The hall had been dark when they emerged upon it. Still talking, Miss
Cannock found a switch, when a small amber-shaded light came on at the
head of the stairs. These ran up one side of the hall to meet a gallery
upon which the bedrooms opened. Miss Cannock threw open the first door
on the left, and they came into a bedroom of the same size and shape as
the study below. The light in the ceiling showed Meg a replica of her
bedroom at Way’s End. With the curtains drawn it might have been the
very room. Yet it was a feeling of strangeness which took hold of Meg as
she looked about her and saw the bed in which she had slept until her
marriage, the looking-glass which had reflected her as a bride, the
curtains and the carpet which she had chosen for herself—all her own
things in a place to which neither they nor she belonged. It made her
feel rather giddy, and for a moment she missed what Miss Cannock was
saying.

Her luggage was here, unstrapped by the efficient Miller. She noted
vaguely that old Mrs Higgins’ layers of newspaper must have been
efficient too, since the smell of pig appeared to have been left outside
with William and the barrow.

She woke up with a start to find that Miss Cannock was explaining about
the meals—“So he has a tray in his study and doesn’t join us.” _He_
must be Uncle Henry. But how terribly bad for him. She said this aloud,

“But, Miss Cannock, that’s dreadfully bad for him! You mustn’t let him
do that!”

Miss Cannock fidgetted with the ends of her batik scarf.

“Oh, but I couldn’t, Mrs O’Hara! I’m sure you will understand the deep
reverence which I feel for his work, and I couldn’t—I really
_couldn’t_—risk upsetting him in any way. The book is at a most
critical stage.” The handkerchief came out again, and the end of the
nose was rubbed until it was quite pink.

“Do you mean to say that he has _all_ his meals in his study?”

“Well, yes, Mrs O’Hara. I do hope you don’t think I’ve been wrong, but
it was so _difficult_ to get him to come to meals, and he wasn’t really
eating enough. But I found that a nice little tray carried in and put
down beside him would often tempt him when it was quite useless for me
to beg him to come over from the island.”

“He has his meals on the island?” said Meg. Her voice was louder than
she had meant it to be.

“Oh yes, Mrs O’Hara. His study is on the island.”

Meg thought of so many things to say that in the end she said nothing.
What really stopped her was the sudden realization that it wasn’t for
her to say anything. She wasn’t Uncle Henry’s home niece any longer. She
was just a visiting relation. Like David, she held her tongue, and, like
David, it was pain and grief to her.

There was a little empty pause. Miss Cannock put away her handkerchief
in a deprecating manner.

“I am afraid it will be a very _dull_ visit for you, Mrs O’Hara. I am
very much occupied, and Mr Postlethwaite is, if I may say so,
immersed—really _immersed_. I am afraid that you will find it very dull
indeed.”

Meg was afraid so too. When she had been left alone to unpack, she
wondered how long she would have to stay, and what on earth she was
going to do with herself. She would have to go for long walks. Perhaps
they would give her a key, so that she could get in and out without such
a prodigious fuss. And she could read, and write letters, and mend her
stockings. And she might knit herself a jumper. She hadn’t had a new
garment of any sort for a year. She could go into Ledlington and get the
wool—there simply must be a bus into Ledlington some time in the day.
It wouldn’t cost much, and she could pay for it out of Bill’s five
pounds, which Uncle Henry must be made to pay back. He’d do it like a
shot of course if she could only get hold of him in a lucid interval.

When she had unpacked, she thought she would explore so as to be able to
find her way about the house, but first of all she went to the nearer of
the two curtained windows and looked out. There was a blind inside the
curtain. She slipped between it and the glass and waited for her eyes to
get used to the darkness. It was quite dark now—the sky, veiled and
heavy, the woods dense blackness, and the lake like ink. The window
looked right down upon the lake. She could just see the island and the
bridge which crossed to it, or rather she thought that she could see
them. Yet when she strained her eyes to see more she began to doubt
whether she had seen anything at all. It was as dark as that. She left
the window, and the light of the room dazzled her.

She came out of her room, and considered which way she should go. Her
door opened by the head of the stairs. A short length of gallery ran to
the right towards the front of the house, a second crossed the back of
the hall, and a third followed the opposite wall. No wonder the house
looked a great barrack from the outside, with this big hall taking up so
much of the inside space. It was miserably lighted—just the one small
light at the head of the stairs—but she could see that doors opened
upon the gallery on all three sides.

She turned to the right and came to a door which wasn’t quite shut.
Pushed open, it disclosed a dark passage. She went along it, feeling
with her hand on the wall. Almost at once she came to a door on the left
and, opening it, found the switch. It clicked, but no light came. The
windows showed uncurtained and the room felt empty.

She took a few steps forward upon naked boards and retreated into the
passage.

Another door on the right. This time the light went on and showed a
bathroom. She went back thankfully for her towel, and washed her face
and hands. The water was tepid, and she had the horrid conviction that
the kitchen was about a mile away, and that the water would probably
never be any hotter than this. It was a very depressing thought.

She left the bathroom light on and continued to explore the passage.

The next door showed, not a room, but an uncarpeted wooden stair going
steeply down. A gleam of hope penetrated the gloom. Perhaps the kitchen
was on this side of the house after all. Perhaps a hot bath was not so
definitely off the map as she had feared. If Mrs Miller had a human
heart under the efficiency commended by Miss Cannock, it might be
possible to achieve one. She left the door ajar and went softly down to
the turn of the stair and a step or two beyond it, and there stopped
because she could hear voices. Perhaps it wouldn’t be tactful to descend
on Mrs Miller by way of the back stairs. Meg had an impulsive nature,
but being married to Robin O’Hara had most painfully taught her to be
afraid of acting upon her impulses. She therefore halted and was in
doubt. “Better go back,” said the Meg who had learnt her lesson. But
before she could obey her own order a chink of light showed below her in
the darkness, as if a door at the foot of the stairs had moved in a
sudden draught. She could see the shape of the door, and the light
beyond it—a faint, diffused light—the light perhaps of a passage dimly
lit, not the light of a room. She could feel the draught blowing towards
her now. The line of light narrowed and then widened again. Of
course—the door at the top of the stairs was open and the draught was
moving this other door.

She had just settled this in her own mind, when a man’s voice said, not
loud, but angrily,

“There’s no sense in taking risks! You ought to have put her in one of
the front rooms!”

Meg tingled from head to foot as if she had received an electric shock.
It was the voice of the invaluable Miller. What an _extraordinary_ thing
to say!

A woman answered. If it was Mrs Miller—and it must be Mrs Miller—she
spoke like an educated woman. It was not exactly a pleasant voice, but
it had a certain charm, a certain attraction. It said with light
sarcasm,

“Not at all. I wanted her to feel at home—with her own furniture. Old
memories—childhood’s days, etc.”

Meg tingled again, this time with rage. If this was Mrs Miller, then Mrs
Miller had a stupendous nerve.

There was no time for more than a flash of thought before the man said,

“You could have moved the furniture into one of the front rooms,
couldn’t you? It’s asking for trouble to let her look out on the lake!”

Bewilderment succeeded anger—a cold bewilderment that was somehow
touched with fear.

And then the woman laughed, a light rippling laugh which was not in the
least in keeping with the back stairs, and the voice said lightly,

“What a fuss about nothing!”

“_Nothing!_” Miller was still angry.

There was another laugh.

“What does it matter when it’s for such a very little time?”

The draught banged the door, and the sound gave Meg a startled impetus.
She was at the top of the stair before she had formulated any definite
thought of flight.

She ran back to her own room, switching out the bathroom light as she
passed.




                                  XVI


She wrote to Bill the next day:

    “Bill darling,

    This is the most mouldy show. I don’t think I am going to be
    able to stick it for very long. You’ve seen the house, but
    you’ve no idea what it’s like to live in. Uncle Henry met me,
    and I haven’t seen him since. His study is over on the island.
    He has his meals there and everything. I think it’s terribly bad
    for him, and the Cannock obviously hasn’t the slightest control.
    You know what he’s like when he’s working, and if he isn’t
    treated with firmness he just wanders off into a world of his
    own and forgets that you exist. Old Wallace used to be awfully
    good at rousing him—she used to insist on his going out for
    walks—but the Cannock just comes over helpless and wrings her
    hands.

    I’m writing this so as to have something to do. If you write me
    a nice long letter I shall read it gratefully for the same
    reason.

                                                             “Meg.”

    P.S. The water is cold.

    P.P.S. There is mould on my mattress, which is wringing wet.

    P.P.P.S. Some time in the next twenty-four hours there’ll be
    mould on me.”

Bill got this letter at breakfast—not the day after it was written, but
the day after that. He looked at the heading and the postmark, and
frowned. He would like to feel that Meg’s letter would reach him quicker
than that.

As he turned the envelope over, something arrested his attention. It was
a very little thing—a very little smear beside the flap. He slanted the
envelope to get the light on it, and found the smear again, just a mere
track of it on the other side of the flap. His frown deepened. Meg might
have opened the envelope and then stuck it down again, or she might not.
Somebody had.

After Bill had frowned at the envelope for about a minute and a half he
made up his mind that Meg had written something which she had afterwards
thought better of. She had therefore opened the envelope, torn up her
original letter, and written another one. He wanted very badly to know
what she had said in the first letter. There was no means of finding
out.

He put the letter away in his wallet and went out and looked at the flat
which he was taking over from the Hewletts. Jack Hewlett was just
leaving the War Office and having two months’ leave before rejoining his
regiment in the north. Bill was therefore taking on the flat furnished
for the first two months, which suited the Hewletts because they didn’t
want to store their furniture, and suited him because he hadn’t got any.
Before the two months were up he hoped that Meg would have been brought
to believe that she was a widow, and that there was no reason why she
should remain one. They could then buy furniture together, and he
wouldn’t risk putting his foot in it by getting things that she wasn’t
going to like. He felt sure she would like the flat, because there was a
really topping view and all the rooms were light and airy. He wanted to
move in as soon as possible, because he loathed living in an hotel, but
he would have to fish round for a reliable couple. Mrs Hewlett gave him
the address of three registry offices, and he started off with the quite
irrational feeling that to engage a suitable couple was the first step
towards marrying Meg.

All the offices promised him couples of unexampled integrity and
efficiency. It was almost bewildering to realize that there were so many
worthy people all passionately anxious to cook his dinners and serve
them.

He was leaving the third office, when a man who had stood aside to let
him pass looked up suddenly and exclaimed,

“Mr Bill!”

Bill received a shock of pleasant surprise.

“Good Lord—_Evans!_”

Evans took the hand which he extended and shook it respectfully.

“I beg your pardon, sir, but I was took—taken—entirely by surprise,
thinking you was—you were—still abroad.”

“I’m home for good,” said Bill. “And what are you and Mrs Evans doing?
I’d no idea you had left the Professor.”

Evans’ face, lofty of brow and benign of aspect, assumed an expression
of settled melancholy.

“Ah, sir, and well you might say that. If anyone had told me or Mrs
Evans that we should be looking for a job, and Mr Postlethwaite still
above ground, well, we wouldn’t have believe it, sir.”

“Good Lord, Evans! _Are_ you looking for a job?”

“Mrs Evans and me is—are—so obligated, sir.”

“Walk along with me!” said Bill abruptly. Visions of Mrs Evans making
pancakes for him and Meg—making omelettes—making those game pies which
were like a beautiful dream—floated rosily into his mind. He wanted a
couple—the Evanses wanted a job. Oh, frabjous day, calloo, callay! “Now
tell me all about it. Why did you leave the Professor? Get it off the
chest!”

Evans’ melancholy became a shade more marked. Bill discerned a trace of
hauteur, a trace of feelings too badly hurt to be revealed, a tinge of
the “I could an’ I would, but nothing will induce me too.”

He patted Evans on the shoulder and said encouragingly, “You’d much
better tell me.”

“Mr Bill, sir,” said Evans, “I couldn’t have believed it—no, nor Mrs
Evans neither. Twenty-five years we been with Mr Postlethwaite, and give
every satisfaction.”

“He didn’t give you notice!”—Anyone who sacked the Evanses must be
completely batty.

Evans coughed.

“I won’t deny that we were took—taken—ill. And a very remarkable
indisposition, if I may say so, sir. Mushrooms it were attributed to,
but to ask me to believe as Mrs Evans, with her experience, could be
deceived in a mushroom is just beyond the bounds of possibility. She has
expressed herself very forcible on the subject, Mr Bill, and very
constant. ‘Snakes in the grass that wants you out of the way is one
thing,’ she says, ‘and toadstools is another, and I know which of them
I’m going to believe in,’ she says. And put like that, I won’t deny
as—that—her words made an impression on me.”

Bill turned and looked at him. It was rather a curious look.

“You mean you think someone wanted you out of the way?”

“That undoubtedly was Mrs Evans’ meaning, sir.” Evans’ tone was one of
dignified detachment.

“But good Lord—who?”

The detachment became more marked.

“That, sir, is hardly for me to say.”

Bill looked at him sharply for a moment. Then he said,

“Well, you were both ill. What happened after that?”

“Mr Postlethwaite, sir, who was always the soul of kindness, suggested
that we should take a holiday. It was a very inconvenient time for
illness to occur, being within a week of the move to Ledstow Place, and
it was put to me and Mrs Evans that it would be best if the move was put
through with a temporary staff while Mrs Evans and me recuperated. The
indisposition was very severe, and there was no denying that we should
have been more of a hindrance than a help, so we come away to my married
brother in London, and when the fortnight was up and I had
wrote—written—to say that being now recovered we were ready and
wishful to take up our duties again, there come back a letter to say
that Mr Postlethwaite was keeping the temporary staff on permanent, and
enclosing a month’s wages in lieu of notice.”

“A letter? From whom?”

Evans turned a mutely understanding eye upon him.

“From Mr Postlethwaite.”

“You’re sure?”

“It was in his hand, Mr Bill.”

“Poor old boy—he must have gone off his head.”

“It’s very kind of you to say so, sir, I’m sure. I won’t say as—that—I
hadn’t a similar thought, but Mrs Evans, sir—”

“Yes, Evans. Go on.”

“Perhaps I’d better not, Mr Bill.”

“No, I think you’d better.”

“Well, sir, what Mrs Evans says is that Mr Postlethwaite never wrote the
letter, or if he did he was drove to it. But that’s a bit farfetched to
my mind, and I put it down to her being upset, though I don’t deny that
there’s those that might have worked on him for their own ends.”

“Why didn’t you go to Mrs O’Hara?” said Bill.

“Well, sir, there’s no denying we were hurt—with the whole family as
you might say—and by all accounts Miss Meg had troubles of her own.
Then just when we were thinking what we’d better do, Lady Latimer writes
and says will we go to Scotland to her mother, Mrs Campbell, and Mrs
Evans says ‘The further the better, William,’ so we went.”

“But I thought—”

“Mrs Campbell deceased a month ago, sir. She was ninety-seven years of
age. And Mrs Evans and me, not being wishful to stay in Scotland, we
come to my brother again with a view to looking around.”

Bill heaved a sigh of relief. He plunged into an offer of his flat and
himself with something of the trepidation which accompanies a proposal
of matrimony. In some odd way the Evanses and Meg were associated in his
mind. Meg might refuse him, but would she—could she refuse them?

Evans received the offer with a dignity which only thinly disguised a
very real gratification. There was a touch of emotion instantly and
sternly controlled. It was with an air of benign loftiness that he
intimated his own favourable consideration of the offer, coupled with
the necessity for talking things over with Mrs Evans.

They parted.

Bill had lunch, and after lunch went round to see Garratt.

“Has that young woman of yours seen her lawyer yet?”

Bill grinned maliciously.

“No, but I have just engaged the cook—_la cuisinière_, feminine—of her
uncle—_oncle_, masculine—and the butler of her uncle—still masculine
but probably batty, and I haven’t the slightest idea what butler is in
French. And do you know why, my friend—_ami_, masculine?... You don’t?
Then I’ll tell you—_je te dirais_. It’s because only England can
produce an Evans.”

“Sounds more like Wales,” said Garratt. “What are you talking about
anyway?”

“_My_ butler and _my_ cook—once Henry Postlethwaite’s butler and Henry
Postlethwaite’s cook, but now, owing to the Satanic activities of
an—unnamed—snake in the grass, my cook and my butler. In fact, my
married couple.”

“Are you drunk?” said Garratt rudely.

“You’re always asking me that. I’m only exhilarated, and if you knew
all, you would be exhilarated too, because when Mrs Evans is my cook you
shall come and dine with me and have the meal of your life. She always
was wasted on the Professor, but how even he could have been balmy
enough to let her go—”

“Have you come here to talk to me about cooks and butlers?” said Garratt
dangerously.

“Not entirely. I want to know if you’ve dug up anything more about the
Delorne woman”—his tone was now entirely serious—“and I want to see
anything you’ve got in the way of proof—documentary proof of O’Hara’s
death. You’ve got to give me something that will convince Meg. She won’t
go a step till she’s sure.”

Garratt fixed him with a hard stare.

“Why didn’t you bring her along?”

“She’s gone out of town—to her uncle’s.”

“Run away?”

“Run away,” said Bill. Oddly enough, it had not occurred to him before,
but it did now. The thrill of the chase was added to the other feelings
which he had about Meg.

Garratt went over to a nest of drawers at the far side of the room.

“Damn all women!” he said, after which he jerked a drawer open and came
back with a file in his hand. He threw it on the table in Bill’s
direction and said, “You can look at that there, but you can’t take it
away. We’ll put everything that’s necessary at the disposal of Mrs
O’Hara’s lawyers. The really conclusive thing is the break in the leg.
We dug up the X-ray of O’Hara’s break. There were some peculiar
features. It’s there—you can compare it with the X-ray we had done of
the unnamed corpse. It’s the same break—there’s not the slightest
doubt. Look for yourself. There’s the surgeon’s affidavit. It’s
unpleasant evidence to put before Mrs O’Hara, but if she won’t take your
word for it, you’ll have to bring her along and let her see for herself.
I want that packet, and I want it p.d.q., before the clever swab who is
after it thinks out some new dodge for stopping me and getting it
himself.”

“What do you think is in it?” said Bill.

Garratt grimaced.

“Dunno. Perhaps t’other fellow don’t either.” His eyebrows went up and
his scalp twitched. “Might be anything—nothing—finger-prints—complete
dossiers, present whereabouts, and machinations of some of the leading
shrinking violets of international crime. T’other fellow’s got the jumps
about it whatever it is, or he wouldn’t be trying to put the wind up Mrs
O’Hara or—taking pot shots at you in the dark.”

Bill looked at him steadily.

“Why at me?”

“Well,” said Garratt in a drawl unnaturally removed from his ordinary
staccato speech, “well, you might be considered in the light of an
incentive, you know. Mrs O’Hara can’t very well marry you unless she
proves O’Hara’s death, and if you were out of the way, they might think
that she wouldn’t be so keen about proving it.”

An angry colour ran up to the very roots of Bill Coverdale’s hair.
Garratt jerked a shoulder impatiently.

“You needn’t bother to murder me—I’m not saying it. But t’other fellow
may be.”

Bill mastered himself with a furious effort. It was no good raging at
Garratt, it would merely gratify him. He said drily,

“I thought the official theory was that I’d invented the shot or
imagined it, or that I’d done it myself, or that Meg had done it in a
pair of trousers she’d been wearing under her evening dress. You’ll
remember that I dug in my toes about the trousers.”

“There isn’t an official theory,” said Garratt gloomily. “But the people
who killed O’Hara certainly wouldn’t stick at doing you in if they
thought you were in their way. Now about this Della Delorne woman—”

“What about her?”

“Next door to nothing. She’s away—it seems to be a more or less chronic
state. The char-lady hasn’t produced anything worth having up to date.
She’s been away too, visiting her sister in the country. Oh Lord—what a
life!” He grinned suddenly at Bill. “Get along out of here and bring
that young woman of yours up to the scratch! I’m supposed to be doing
some work.”

Bill went back to his hotel and sat down to write a difficult letter to
Meg O’Hara. It was difficult because he had to convince her that Robin
was dead, and to do this it was necessary to put before her with
plainness the evidence which Garratt had shown him. He wrote this part
of the letter two or three times, because whenever he had been really
plain and convincing it sounded bald and brutal, and whenever he tried
to present the evidence tactfully it didn’t sound in the least
convincing, and Meg had simply got to be convinced. He made a pencil
draft, read it through, thought he had done it very badly, and
proceeded, still in pencil, to the second part of the letter. It was
even more difficult, because his thoughts were quite full of the flat,
and the Evanses, and wanting to marry Meg with as little delay as
possible, and it wouldn’t be decent to let these things escape into a
letter which contained the proofs of Robin O’Hara’s death. He could, of
course, tell her that he had taken the Hewletts’ flat. There was nothing
_ipso facto_ indecent about his telling her that he had taken a flat. It
looked a little bald as he added it to the pencil draft—“I have taken
the Hewletts’ flat.” Perhaps it would be better if he didn’t add
anything to the first part of his letter....

It would be better. But the picture of Meg in that mouldy house, getting
a mouldy letter from him full of mortuary details and without so much as
a friendly word at the end, was too much. He had stroked out the
sentence about the flat. He now indicated that it was to be restored by
making a series of dots underneath the stroke-out line. Very well, he
had taken the Hewletts’ flat. What about it now? Could he tell Meg how
many rooms there were? Could he describe the rooms without becoming
tendencious? He wrote a horrible sentence exactly like an excerpt from a
house-agent’s list. “There is a dining-room, a drawing-room, four
bedrooms, a kitchen, and a bathroom.”

He looked gloomily at this statement. It was horrible, but no one could
say that it was tendencious. It was bald, blameless, and blatantly
boring. If he made the flat sound boring, Meg wouldn’t want to come and
live in it. He broke hastily into a panegyric on the view from the
drawing-room windows—tree-tops, and a bit of the river, and if you
leaned out you could see the sunset and reflections in the water.

He frowned at his panegyric after he had written it, poised his pencil
to cross it out, and then let it alone and went quickly on to the
Evanses. The Evanses were safe ground as long as he remembered not to
say anything that would look as if Meg was going to have a share in
them. At this point something primitive got up and kicked. Hang it all,
Meg knew he loved her. O’Hara had been a damned bad husband, and he’d
been dead for a year. What was the good of all this beating about the
bush?

Bill wrestled with these feelings more or less successfully, and
continued his letter. He told Meg all about the Evanses, and how angry
Mrs Evans had been at the suggestion that she might have cooked a
toadstool by mistake. When he had finished all that, he sat considering
how he should end the letter. After a bit he wrote:

    “How long are you going to stay at Ledstow? I think you ought to
    come back as soon as you can and see your lawyer. I should like
    to drive down and fetch you. Please let me.

                                                            “Bill.”

    P.S. I can come tomorrow if you wire. I think that tomorrow
    would be a good day, really.”

He read the whole thing through, copied it out with a few verbal
alterations, put it in an envelope, addressed it, and posted it in the
hotel letter-box. When he had done this, he felt rather as if he had
been assisting at Robin O’Hara’s funeral. There was the sense of an
unpleasant duty accomplished, a restrained gloom consented to, and the
feeling that the blinds could now be pulled up and more cheerful things
considered. He proceeded to consider them, and found them pleasant. His
mind might have been less at ease if he had known that his letter would
never reach Meg, and that when he posted it he had been posting a death
warrant.




                                  XVII


Meg went into Ledlington next day and bought her wool. It wasn’t a very
satisfactory expedition, because Miss Cannock, kind, fussy and
thick-skinned, insisted on coming too—“And your uncle would wish you to
take the car, I know. He is so entirely immersed at present that I
couldn’t mention it, but he would, I know, be greatly distressed if you
did not take the car. The buses are most inconvenient”—this Meg could
well believe—“and such a horrid smell of petrol. In fact, Mrs O’Hara,
it sometimes seems to me that this so-called mechanical age has some
very grave disadvantages, and that life in the country must really have
been pleasanter when you could drive comfortably along the lanes in a
governess-cart or a pony-trap. Going into Ledlington would have been a
very agreeable expedition. But I couldn’t attempt to drive even a very
quiet pony, with so many cars on the road, and coming round corners at
the rate they do.”

Meg wasn’t attending to this very much. She was puzzled.

“I didn’t know Uncle Henry had started a car. He always said he wouldn’t
have one. What has he got—and who drives it? Don’t tell me _he_ does!”

“Oh _no_!” Miss Cannock was quite shocked. “Oh _no_, Mrs O’Hara—of
course not! But I see you are joking.” She smiled, a polite little
twisted smile. “But about the car—I’m afraid I’m very ignorant, but I
really don’t know what sort it is. He got it second-hand in a very good
condition, and the colour is a pleasing shade of grey—or perhaps you
would call it drab. I don’t really think we could have lived here
without some kind of conveyance—it’s so very remote and the buses not
at all convenient—in fact, I may say, most inconvenient.”

“Who drives it?” said Meg again, and not idly, because if it was the
Cannock, she could drive herself, but she wouldn’t get the chance of
driving Meg. Life mightn’t be very sweet at the moment, but it had
possibilities, and anyhow she didn’t want to die in a messy motor smash
with a twittering female who probably didn’t know a brake from an
accelerator.

“Oh, the gardener,” said Miss Cannock. “Such a nice man, and such an
excellent driver. I am a little inclined to be nervous in a motor car,
but Henderson is so very reliable that I don’t feel a _twinge_, not the
least twinge of anxiety, when he is driving.”

Meg pricked up her ears. So there was a gardener called Henderson who
drove the car. Not, oh surely not, the loutish boy who lived at the
lodge. She said quickly,

“Not that boy at the lodge!”

Miss Cannock looked quite shocked again.

“Oh no—oh dear, no! I’m afraid I should be very nervous about trusting
myself to John. He is a good boy, but he naturally has not his father’s
experience.”

The family at the lodge fell into place in Meg’s mind. Henderson was
probably a widower, the old woman was his mother, and the loutish boy
his son. Not local people, according to William. She wondered how long
you had to live here before you were local. At any other time—or
perhaps it would be more correct to say in any other place—she wouldn’t
have given the Hendersons a second thought, but at Ledstow you extracted
all you possibly could from its scant and arid themes. She therefore
pursued the subject.

“Have they been here long?”

“I beg your pardon, Mrs O’Hara?”

What an irritating way the Cannock had of peering through those horrible
tinted glasses. She poked her head, she peered, she wore beaded
slippers, and her hands were never still—“Darling Uncle Henry—how
_could_ you?”

“The Hendersons. They live at the lodge, don’t they? William said they
weren’t local.”

“Excellent people,” said Miss Cannock. “No, not local. Mr Postlethwaite
engaged them when we came here.”

The excellent Henderson drove them into Ledlington in what proved to be
a Bentley saloon. He certainly drove very well, but Meg did not care
about his looks. She thought the whole family singularly
unprepossessing. The man was powerfully built, he handled the car like
an expert, and he had a manner that would have got him dismissed at
sight by most private employers. His eyes were bold and his air
familiar. Meg thought the Cannock even more of a fool than she had taken
her for, since she praised him continually and was obviously quite
unaware that his manners needed mending.

They parked the car in the Market Square and shopped. Miss Cannock had a
dozen fiddley errands—a scrap of ribbon to match, a winter hat to
consider, and a long list of household commissions for Mrs Miller—“And
I really think I ought to have brought her with us, for it’s so easy to
get the wrong thing, and she’s very particular. An invaluable person,
Mrs O’Hara, but not very even-tempered, and I so very much dislike
anything that savours of friction. But if you will give me your advice,
I shall not be so afraid of going wrong. Two heads are better than one,
as they say.”

Meg had to abandon any hope of freeing herself. The Cannock was the
worst shopper she had ever seen. Confronted with a choice of any kind,
she became a prey to indecision. It was bad enough when she was buying
dusters, furniture-polish, clothes-pegs, sausages, and tinned fruit, but
in the hat department of Ashley’s she rapidly approached complete mental
disintegration. She tried on everything, and looked lingeringly at her
profile in a hand mirror. Meg gazed in fascinated horror at Miss Cannock
in a bright orange beret, Miss Cannock in a viridian velvet tam, Miss
Cannock in a succession of fly-away shepherdess hats in a variety of
unsuitable shades. In the end she came away without buying anything,
extending to two exhausted ministrants a consolatory hope that she might
call again next week to look through their new stock.

It was perhaps because she was rather dazed that Meg so nearly had an
accident when they came out. The High Street is very narrow just above
Ashley’s, and the trams come round the corner and down a short incline.
Miss Cannock began to cross the street at this point. Meg was beside
her, certainly as far as the middle of the road, but just what happened
after that she was never quite sure. It was market day and there were a
great many people about. The tram came round the corner, and there was a
car coming up the other way, and Miss Cannock got nervous and stopped.
Then she ran back, or ran forward, or both—that was the part Meg
couldn’t get clear. There was a screech of brakes from the car, a
warning bell from the tram, and somehow or other Meg found herself
face-downwards on the track with the metal of the tram-line cold against
her mouth and the most sickening sensation of terror almost stopping her
heart. She didn’t quite faint, but she came very near it. The next thing
she knew she was being pulled up, and a woman was saying in a sobbing,
gasping voice, “Right under the tram she was—right under the tram!”

It wasn’t a woman who was holding her—much too large, much too strong.
It was a man, and a man’s voice said, “Are you hurt, miss?”

Meg opened her eyes. The tram was most terrifyingly near. The lights
were on inside. They gave it the air of some fiery instrument of doom.
She said to herself, “That’s nonsense!” but she looked away from the
tram. There was a crowd which filled the narrow street, and everyone was
looking at her. “Right under the tram she was—right under the tram!”
said the sobbing woman. And then the man again, close at her ear, “Are
you hurt?”

Meg straightened herself up, and with the movement her head was clear
again. She saw the driver of the tram, his face like a bit of wet linen,
and she managed a smile and a husky sentence. “I’m all right—really.”
And then she was aware of Miss Cannock clutching at her arm and shaking
like a person with the ague.

“Oh, Mrs O’Hara—it was all my fault! I’m so bad at crossings, and I got
nervous, and I don’t know what happened. You were right under the tram!”

Meg looked over Miss Cannock’s heaving shoulder and saw the head and
shoulders of Henderson a couple of yards away in the crowd. She hadn’t
realized that he was so tall until she saw him standing like that in the
crowd. He wasn’t doing anything, he was just standing there and looking.
He was looking at her.

All of a sudden the one thing she wanted was to get away from those
staring eyes. She made a great effort and pulled herself together. When
you’ve just made the most complete fool of yourself, you feel the need
of a specially high horse to ride. Meg made her effort, and found
herself in the saddle. She thanked the man who had picked her up, spoke
to the driver of the tram, smiled upon the assembled crowd, and took
Miss Cannock firmly by the arm.

“I’m very sorry to have given everyone such a fright. I don’t know how
it happened, but I’m quite all right.” Then, to the still shaking Miss
Cannock, “We’d better go back to Ashley’s, hadn’t we? I want to tidy
up.”

Miss Cannock twittered all the way across the road, and through the
shop, and up the stairs into the ladies’ room.

“So dreadful—so unnerving—so careless of me! And I have been stronger
of late—it is some time since I had one of these nervous attacks—I
quite lose my head, and afterwards I have no recollection—no
recollection at all. Are you sure you are not injured in any way? When
you fell—it was so dreadful—so nearly a terrible accident! I did not
think that the tram could have stopped in time! And _what_ should I have
said to your uncle? _Oh, Mrs O’Hara!_”

Meg put her firmly into a chair. What a woman! What a mutt Uncle Henry
was to keep her!

She went to one of the wall glasses, and saw a very pale face under a
very crooked hat, with a long dirty smear across the pallor where she
had felt the metal of the tramline cold and hard against her cheek. The
moment came back with the added chill of realization. She had been not
two inches away from the grinding death of the wheels. The room shook
for a moment. It was as if a gust of terror was shaking it.

She bent down quickly, turned the cold water tap, and began to wash her
face, using her handkerchief as a sponge. The cold water steadied her.
She took powder and lipstick out of her bag and made herself up with
care and deliberation. She wanted to postpone the moment of return to
Miss Cannock. If she could have postponed it to the other side of the
Greek kalends, it would have been a great relief, but she had got to
drive back seven miles to Ledstow with her and be prattled to all the
way.

She looked in the glass, and saw Miss Cannock at another glass, absurdly
titivating. Every now and then she stopped to gasp and clutch at her
side. Suddenly Meg could laugh at her, and felt better.

And then she saw the telephone-box.

She was standing at the end wash-basin. Immediately to her left an open
archway led into the pleasant rest-room. Ashley’s did their customers
well. Serving a large country district, they catered to women who had
driven long distances to shop and who were often left with an odd half
hour to put in before going on to lunch or tea.

The rest-room was restfully upholstered in green. There were comfortable
chairs, there were magazines and papers, and there was a telephone-box.
The sight of it filled Meg with a desire to talk to someone who didn’t
twitter. It filled her, in fact, with a desire to talk to Bill
Coverdale. It was four o’clock, and it was most unlikely that she would
be able to get on to him, but she could try. It would at any rate defer
the Cannock. And what a good thing the Cannock had had an urge to
titivate, because otherwise she would still be sitting in a chair that
faced the telephone-box—and the last thing Meg wanted was to talk to
Bill under that mild inquisitive stare.

She stepped through the archway, and felt a secret pleasure in the
realization that the telephone-box was quite out of range as far as the
Cannock was concerned. She shut the sound-proof door and was grateful
for the silence, and sorry that she had to break it by calling the
exchange. Of course it was silly to think that she had the least chance
of finding Bill in his hotel at this hour. She said that—just in
case—but all the time something very strong and insistent was telling
her that he would be there. And with miraculous quickness there he was,
speaking a half impatient “Hullo!” into the receiver at his end.

“Hullo—hullo! Who is it?”

“Me,” said Meg, and had the thrill of hearing his voice change, and
soften, and become the special sort of voice that was kept for her.

“Meg—is it you? I didn’t know you were on the telephone.”

“We’re not—no such luck.”

“Where are you speaking from?”

“A box—in a shop—in Ledlington.”

“What a bit of luck! I’d come in for some papers, and was just going out
again. Meg, how are you getting on?”

“Mouldy,” said Meg. “That’s why I’m ringing up—I just felt I must hear
a human voice. The Cannock isn’t human. I think she’s a sort of
sheep—she blethers. That does sound like a sheep—doesn’t it? Blether,
to rhyme with wether.”

It was frightfully silly, but her breath kept catching in her throat and
the words wobbled.

“What’s the matter, Meg?”

“Nothing.”

“Your voice doesn’t shake like that for nothing.”

“I’m all right, but I nearly came to a sticky end just now, and when I
heard your voice it sort of came over me.”

“Meg! What?”

“A tram,” said Meg—“a beastly juggernaut of a tram ... Bill,
_don’t_—I’m quite all right.”

“How?”

Bill’s voice had changed again. It wasn’t like anything she had ever
heard from him. Somehow that steadied her.

“I don’t know. I suppose I tripped ... Bill, I’m perfectly all right.”

Bill Coverdale said, “Thank God!” And then, “Have you had my letter?”
and Meg said, “No.” And then the door of the telephone-box was opened,
and there was Miss Cannock just behind her—blethering. There really was
no other word for it.

“The air in these boxes—so confined, so hot! I am so afraid of your
feeling faint, Mrs O’Hara—after your terrible experience!”

Meg heard this with one ear, while with the other she was aware of
Bill’s saying faintly but insistently, “You ought to have had it.”

She took her lips from the receiver to say in a voice of cold fury, “I’m
perfectly all right, Miss Cannock!” Then, into the telephone again,
“There’s only one post. I expect I’ll get it tomorrow.”

Just as she said “tomorrow” Miss Cannock gave a little gasp and clutched
at her arm. Bill was saying, a horribly long way off, “You ought to have
had it today.” But how on earth could she talk to Bill with Miss
Cannock’s choking whisper close against her uncovered ear?

“I’m afraid—I feel so—I don’t know—I think I’m going—to faint—”
Very little satisfaction to be got out of talking to Bill with a
swooning elderly spinster propped against her shoulder, and quite
possibly listening in.

Meg said, “I’m sorry—I must ring off,” and hung up the receiver. She
was so angry that it made her feel very strong. In ordinary
circumstances she might have found it difficult to transfer Miss
Cannock’s practically dead weight to a chair, but as it was, she hardly
noticed it, being entirely taken up with combating a desire to shake
her. If the Cannock felt faint, why couldn’t she stay in a chair and
faint there instead of staggering into a telephone-box which she quite
rightly described as hot and stuffy, and fainting or trying to faint on
Meg?

Meg went and fetched a glass of water with the most murderous feelings
of irritation, but when she returned with it Miss Cannock was a good
deal revived, and after taking two very small sips declared that she had
been very foolish, but she was better now and a cup of hot tea would be
much nicer than this cold water.

Over a pot of tea in the rather subfusc refreshment room she became more
conversational than Meg had yet known her. She ordered scones and cakes
as well as tea, and continually pressed Meg to eat.

“For after such a shock, Mrs O’Hara, you require sustenance—you really
do. You have so much self-control—but it is not wise to tax yourself
too far. That little round cake with the nuts is a specialty of Ashley’s
and I can recommend it. No sugar in your tea? Now I always think that is
such a pity. Everyone cannot afford expensive pleasures, but sugar in
one’s tea, if you like it, is a great pleasure, and one within the reach
of all.”

“She must be half-witted,” said Meg to herself. And then all at once she
found something rather pathetic about the Cannock. If sugar in your tea
had to do duty for a pleasure, her lines must indeed have been cast in
stale, flat, and unprofitable regions. The stiff anger went out of her
and she made polite conversation.

“It is really very pleasant here,” said Miss Cannock, stirring her tea.
There were two lumps of sugar in it, and the bubbles rose in little
clusters. “Very pleasant indeed. And I do hope, Mrs O’Hara, that I did
not interrupt you at the telephone. It was unpardonable of me—really
unpardonable, but I felt suddenly very ill, and you had been so kind. I
do _hope_—”

“It doesn’t matter at all—I had just finished.”

Miss Cannock took one of the little round cakes she had recommended. She
ate in small fussy bites, using her front teeth like a rabbit and making
a great many crumbs.

“You are so kind, Mrs O’Hara, but I shouldn’t like Mr Postlethwaite to
know that I had been so foolish. He might think I had been to blame—and
indeed I feel—”

To her horror, Meg saw the little nutty cake, no longer round because of
the rabbit bites, shake in the hand that clutched it. She said in a
soft, distressed voice,

“Oh _please_, Miss Cannock, there’s nothing to tell, but we won’t tell
him.”

“You’re so kind,” said Miss Cannock. She nibbled mournfully at a nut. “I
am very happy in my present post. Mr Postlethwaite is always so kind and
considerate, if sometimes rather _immersed_, and I should not like him
to think that my foolish nervousness—” She choked, sniffed, and
producing a very large and solid linen handkerchief, dabbed at the
corners of the eyes behind the tinted glasses.

Meg’s soft heart was touched.

“Miss Cannock, please don’t. Nothing has happened, and I shouldn’t dream
of saying anything to Uncle Henry. Have another cup of tea—and have
three lumps.”

Miss Cannock put away her handkerchief, much to Meg’s relief.

They had a lingering tea. Miss Cannock had four cups, and, in all ten
lumps of sugar. She told Meg the story of her life. It sounded bleak and
starved beyond belief. In some water-tight compartment she must keep a
brain, because she seemed always to have passed examinations with
ease—she had even taken scholarships. She had no relations, and she had
never made any friends. “I don’t know how it was, but there never seemed
to be time, if you know what I mean, Mrs O’Hara.”

At long last they drove back to Ledstow Place.




                                 XVIII


Bill Coverdale’s envelope was lying by Meg’s plate when she came down to
breakfast next morning. She and Miss Cannock had their meals in the
little back room that looked out upon the lake, the vault-like
dining-room on the other side of the hall being the gloomiest and least
inviting of apartments.

Miss Cannock poured out the tea, and Meg read her letter. It was very
short, and that was disappointing, especially after she had practically
asked Bill for a long letter. And there was really nothing in it, and
that was disappointing too, because from the way Bill had asked if she
had had his letter she had got the idea that there was something rather
special about it. Instead of which it was a short letter, and a dull
letter, and rather a cold letter.

At this point Meg’s colour rose, and she said to herself with as much
severity as she could manage, “Be quiet! I’m ashamed of you. You don’t
want him to make love to you, do you?” And at that frightful moment, and
under the Cannock’s eye, she knew that she did.

She read the letter through again slowly:

    “Dear Meg,

    I’m having a very busy time, because I have taken the Hewletts’
    flat and I want to get in as soon as possible. I have engaged a
    married couple. I hope you are getting on all right. Remember me
    to the Professor.

                                                            Yours
                                                             Bill.”

It was a beast of a letter—a horrible, cold, detached icicle of a
letter—a limp dead fish of a letter. And Bill had had the nerve to ask
in the most pressing way if she had got it! For all the friendship, or
comfort, or warmth it contained it might just as well have gone to the
dead letter office and stayed there.

She was rather fierce with her boiled egg, cutting off the top instead
of peeling it as she usually did. Miss Cannock was, fortunately, quite
engrossed with an account of the marriage of two film stars.

“It seems so—so persevering,” she said, with a little cough. “They have
each had four previous experiences of the most unhappy nature. One
cannot approve, but it seems to me it shows—courage. Do you not think
so, Mrs O’Hara?”

Meg thought it showed great courage. If Robin was dead, and she was a
widow, no power on earth would make her give any other man that power to
hurt which marriage gives—never, and never, and never again. And at the
back of her mind a small, cold voice said, “Bill hasn’t asked you to
give him anything, has he?”

About this time, or perhaps a little later, Bill Coverdale opened a
telegram. It was signed “Meg,” and it ran:

    “Your letter received. Would like to stay on here and be quiet
    for a little. I know you will understand. Please don’t come
    down.”

The sharpness of his disappointment actually took him aback. It wasn’t
reasonable to be disappointed in just this intense, undisciplined
fashion. It was the most natural thing in the world that Meg, having at
last received proof of Robin O’Hara’s death, should want a little time
to adjust herself to her freedom.

He looked at the telegram and saw that it had been sent off from Ledstow
at eight-forty-five. That meant that she had got his letter by the first
post and had managed to send this wire off immediately. Perhaps the
village post-office had an arrangement for telephoning telegrams to
Ledlington. Eight-forty-five was pretty early to have got a telegram off
in any other way.

He went on frowning at the flimsy sheet of paper. Meg had been in a
great hurry to tell him that she wanted to be alone. She could hardly
have got his letter before she was making arrangements to get this
telegram sent off. Why, she wouldn’t be out of bed at eight o’clock.
Being very deeply in love, and having for the first time for at least
three years begun to hope, it hurt him sharply to feel how quickly Meg
had decided that he must stay away. Beneath the hurt there was something
else, deep down, unformulated, a kind of dark uneasiness of which he
himself was scarcely aware. If the hurt had been less sharp, this vague
uneasiness would perhaps have come in for more of his attention.

He wrote to Meg before he went out, a short, careful letter, in which he
tried very hard not to show that he had been hurt at all. Of course he
understood, and of course he wouldn’t come till she wanted him, but he
didn’t like to feel that she was all alone in rather a mouldy place, and
she must please remember that she had only to wire at any time and he
would come at once, but he didn’t want to worry her, so he would wait
until he heard from her. All of which gave great satisfaction to the
person who had sent the telegram after reading and destroying the letter
which had been intended to convince Meg of Robin’s death. Meg was never
to see either of the two letters, and she had certainly no idea that any
telegram had been sent in her name.

When Meg had finished her breakfast, which took quite a long time
because Miss Cannock kept on reading her chatty excerpts from the _Daily
Mail_, she went for a walk in the dreary park. She then wound the wool
which she had bought at Ashley’s and began her jumper. Miss Cannock had
vanished, Uncle Henry was permanently “immersed,” and the house gave her
the creeps. The familiar furniture made it a great deal worse. Like
herself, it was in exile in a gloomy, unfamiliar place. What was the
good of having enough to eat? It would be much better to be starving in
London. What was the good of making a jumper? What was the good of
anything? She was marooned.

Bill Coverdale, on the other hand, was extremely busy. Some of the
savour had gone out of his flat-taking, but he had got to get on with it
all the same, and as the day wore on, the reasonableness of Meg’s
attitude and the unreasonableness of his own became progressively more
apparent, with the result that he cheered up a good deal and was able
once more to picture Meg choosing curtains for the drawing-room. He
wondered if she would like them flowery or plain. He inclined to plain
himself because of framing the view. He felt quite sure that Meg was
going to like the view. The Hewletts had already left, and he was moving
in in two days’ time. The Evanses were all fixed up, and Mrs Evans was
arranging with a woman to come in and do the cleaning, so everything was
well in train.

He thought he would walk back to the hotel. It was quite extraordinary
what a lot of building seemed to be going on in every direction—blocks
of flats springing up and altering once familiar streets. In another
generation, he supposed, everyone would be living in a flat, in the
towns at any rate. Quite a good plan—sensible, economical,
labour-saving. He looked at all the blocks with interest, comparing the
flats with his own. In the last twenty-four hours it had ceased to be
the Hewletts’ flat and become _his_ flat. The proprietary feeling grew
as he compared it with others, mostly to their disadvantage. He had
taken it in a hurry, but he hadn’t made any mistake. Quite definitely it
was a good flat. Now this block that he was just passing—he wouldn’t
have liked to bring Meg here. Nothing really wrong with the locality,
but not attractive—rather on the grubby side.

And then he noticed the name over the entrance—Oleander Mansions. If he
hadn’t been taking that special interest in flats, he wouldn’t have seen
it. As it was, the name did not at first mean anything to him. It wasn’t
until he had walked some dozen steps past it that it came back into his
mind, linked with Garratt’s voice, and he remembered that Oleander
Mansions was where Della Delorne lived.

He turned round to have another look at the entrance, as if it would
tell him something. But only Della Delorne could say whether Robin
O’Hara had passed through that entrance with her on the night when Bill
had seen them together—what was it—four days after Robin had
disappeared. They were together in a taxi at midnight. Where were they
bound for? He considered the position of the flat. They might easily
have been coming here—yes, they might very easily have been coming
here.

He stood there, frowning at the entrance, and became aware of a stout
middle-aged woman who was descending the steps. She wore her hair in a
bun, with a flat, discouraged-looking black hat affixed to it by a
bright blue hat-pin. Her contours were draped in a Burberry which
hitched up in front and dipped at the back. Her hands, gloveless and
red, advertised her calling. She was a scrubber of steps, a charlady, a
daily help. And what had Garratt said about the woman at Oleander
Mansions? She’d been away—they hadn’t been able to get hold of her....
Yes, that was it—she’d been away. Perhaps she was still away. Perhaps
this was her deputy—

Perhaps it wasn’t—

Bill was never quite able to decide why he should have felt such an
imperative urge to settle this question. He was not very much given to
acting on impulse, but he did its bidding now, and that without stopping
to think. If he had stopped to think, he might well have blenched, for
the lady looked as if she might be formidable. But he did not stop. He
merely found himself politely lifting his hat and saying,

“I beg your pardon, but I wonder if I might speak to you for a moment?”

The woman stopped. She had a string bag in one hand and an umbrella in
the other. She tipped her head back and stared at Bill in very much the
same way that a cow disturbed at grass lifts its head to regard a
stranger. She looked, and just as he was going to speak again she said
in a deep, hoarse voice,

“I beg your pardon?”

It was like a belated echo, and the horrible part of it was that he had
been on the point of repeating the words himself. He said instead,

“I’m afraid I don’t know your name, but I think you are employed at
Oleander Mansions, are you not?”

Her bovine expression yielded a little, and she said,

“Certingly.”

It was really horribly awkward plunging into conversation with a
respectable middle-aged worker who was obviously wondering what on earth
he wanted with her. He thanked heaven for her middle age and her solid
size. He would not at any rate be suspected of a design upon her virtue.
In desperation he plunged.

“I wonder if you would mind telling me your name?”

Her stare hardened.

“Thompson,” she said—“Mrs Thompson, and no call to be ashamed of it.
And might I make so bold as to ask what you’re wanting with me?”

It was easier now that he had her name.

“Mrs Thompson,” he said, “I want very much to have a talk with you, and
I quite realize that you are a busy woman and that I mustn’t take up
your time for nothing.”

Mrs Thompson’s red face flushed vigorously.

“If you’re from the police, you just turn right round and go back where
you come from! You did ought to be ashamed of yourself, trying to drag a
respectable working-woman who has brought up half a dozen children and
kept herself and them and never been mixed up with nothing—”

“I’m not from the police—really I’m not—nothing to do with them.”

Mrs Thompson sniffed, the loud emphatic sniff of one who has yet to be
convinced.

“Well, they’ve been coming round, so the lift-boy tells me. I’ve been
away for my ’oliday, and first thing he says to me when I come in this
morning, ‘There’s a busy been here,’ he says, meaning a plain-clothes
detective. And when I says ‘Whatever for?’ he ups and sauces me, the
young limb, which if he’d been one of mine I’d have put it across him
and he wouldn’t have done it again in a hurry.”

Bill smiled in the manner which he had always found very efficacious
with his great-aunt Annabel.

“I swear I’m not a busy. I just want to ask you a few questions about a
friend of mine. He’s gone off without leaving an address. I thought if I
might have a talk with you, and if you would accept five pounds to make
up for the loss of your time—”

Her stare became extremely penetrating. He got the impression that if
the mind behind it moved slowly it was nevertheless of a certain
calibre.

She said, “Five pounds—” and stood there puckering up her lips and
frowning. Then she said, “We can’t talk here,” and with that she began
to walk along the pavement.

Bill moved with her.

“Nor yet walking along the road,” said Mrs Thompson.

“What about a cup of tea?” said Bill.

Mrs Thompson looked sideways at him.

“You—and me?” she said. She sniffed again. This time it was a sniff of
scorn.

“Why not?”

“The kind of place where I’d have a cup would ’ardly be the kind of
place for you, and the kind of place where you’d ’ave a cup wouldn’t
’ardly be the place for me, which I’ve got my pride same as other
people.”

It took nearly five minutes to persuade Mrs Thompson that some kind of
half-way house might be discovered. In the end she supposed that
Simpson’s bakery might serve their turn, and that the hour being what it
was, three o’clock in the afternoon, the place was likely enough to be
empty.

They sat presently in the room behind the shop, at a small table covered
with green oilcloth. There were five other similar tables, but no one
else was having tea. Mrs Thompson poured out two cups, asked him if he
took milk and sugar, and, remarking that she liked hers strong and
sweet, dropped four lumps into a dark draught of tea and proceeded to
drink it in scalding sips. Bill admired her aplomb, and wished that he
could emulate it. He had an uneasy feeling that he was making a complete
fool of himself and paying five pounds for the privilege—five pounds
and the price of this repellent tea.

“Good hot tea takes a deal of beating,” said Mrs Thompson, “but it’s got
to be hot and it’s got to be sweet, or I wouldn’t give a thank you for
it.” She clasped both hands round her cup and sipped with audible
enjoyment. “And what was it you wanted to ask me about? A friend of
yours, you was saying—”

Bill leaned an elbow on the table.

“Mrs Thompson,” he said, “my friend’s name was O’Hara—Mr Robin O’Hara.
Have you heard the name before?”

He had waited until the cup was clear of her lips. She shook her head,
and sipped again. Then she put the cup down and said,

“That’s Irish, isn’t it?”

Bill nodded.

“I want you to go back to a year ago—October last year—October 4th
last year.”

“What about it?” said Mrs Thompson. She looked blankly at him.

“I think Mr O’Hara was in Oleander Mansions that night.”

“What time?”

“I think he may have come there soon after midnight.”

Mrs Thompson sniffed again very loudly indeed.

“And where do you suppose I’d be at that time of night, mister? When you
done a hard day’s work like what I do you don’t go on all night long as
well, thank Gawd. In my bed and asleep, that’s where I am come midnight,
whether it’s October or January, and this year or last year. All the
same—” She stopped, drained her cup, and picking up the teapot, began
to pour herself another.

“Yes,” said Bill.

“Nothing,” said Mrs Thompson. She put four drops of milk into her tea,
and four lumps of sugar.

“You were going to say something.”

“Well, I’m not going to now.” She lifted her cup and drank from it. “Oh
lor—that’s ’ot!” She rummaged in the string bag and found a
handkerchief with which she wiped her face. “It’s funny, so soon as I
get my second cup I come over that ’ot you wouldn’t believe it.”

Bill might have retorted that seeing was believing. He stuck to his
point instead.

“Mrs Thompson, you were going to say something. Can’t you tell me what
it was?”

She made an impatient movement.

“’Twasn’t nothing. But since you’re so pressing, it was just that I
wasn’t working, not last October I wasn’t—not the first ten days
anyhow. I’d a bit of a naccident and I was in ’ospital, and my Beatrice
she was going instead of me, to keep the place open like.”

“That’s your daughter?”

She nodded and sipped her tea.

“Me second. The eldest’s married, and a bad ’usband she’s got, but girls
won’t never believe that their mothers know nothing.”

They seemed to have got to a dead end.

“Will you ask your daughter if she remembers anything about Mr O’Hara?”

“Well, what am I to ask—who did he come visiting? There’s a matter of
fifteen flats on my stair.”

It had not occurred to him that there might be more than one stair. He
said quickly,

“Is Miss Delorne’s flat on your stair?”

Her face became heavily unintelligent. Bill recognized the withdrawal of
respectability.

“Is it?” he insisted.

She said, “Yes,” and shut her mouth hard.

“Is she there now? Living there, I mean.”

She gave him another heavy look.

“How should I know?”

“Well, you might. Is she?”

“She’s not there much. The boy says she’s away.”

“Mr O’Hara might have been visiting at Miss Delorne’s flat,” said Bill.

“_And_ not the first,” said Mrs Thompson with dignity.

They got no further. That she should regard Della Delorne with suspicion
was a foregone conclusion, but she wouldn’t talk about her. “I’ve my job
to think of,” and, “Least said, soonest mended,” was as far as she would
go. And upon that they parted.

Bill gave her her five pounds and a card with his address. He did not
promise Beatrice another fiver, but he gave Mrs Thompson to understand
that there would be a market if her daughter had anything to sell.




                                  XIX


Bill Coverdale was just beginning to think of dressing for dinner that
evening, when he was informed that a young lady had called to see him.
His thoughts went rocketing to Meg with the complete lack of reason
which characterizes the lover’s state. She hadn’t given any name. She
was in the lounge. He was engaged to dine with old friends on the other
side of London. If this was Meg—but how could it be Meg?—it didn’t
matter how short of time he ran himself.

He came into the lounge quite certain that it couldn’t be Meg, but was
instantly and sharply disappointed to find that he was right. The girl
in the blue coat and black beret who was waiting for him did not even
faintly resemble Meg. She was a pretty girl with large rolling blue eyes
and yellow hair curling on her neck. Her lips were made up in a bright
scarlet shade and her shoes were cheap and shabby. As Bill approached,
she said in a drawling voice which would have been pretty if it had been
less affected,

“Mr Coverdale? My mother said that you wanted to see me.”

Bill blinked.

“Your mother?”

“Mrs Thompson,” said the girl. “You were speaking to her this afternoon,
and she said you would be glad if I would call.”

So this was Miss Beatrice Thompson.... Remembering Mrs Thompson in her
shapeless Burberry and still more shapeless hat, Bill admired. How did
these girls manage it? Beatrice Thompson looked very much like the girls
of his own set, especially at a little distance. The beret and the coat
were neat and up to date, the hair of the fashionable length, the
lipstick very much as worn in Mayfair. A young man who devoted as much
energy and perseverance to his profession would probably rise to the top
of the tree. He took off his hat to Miss Beatrice Thompson.

All this passed in a flash whilst he was shaking hands and steering her
to an empty corner of the lounge. They sat in two adjacent armchairs,
and Miss Beatrice opened the ball.

“My mother said—” Beneath the painstaking drawl the London accent
flowed like an under-tow, sometimes weaker, sometimes stronger, but
always there.

“Yes,” said Bill—“I’m very grateful to you for calling. I want some
information about a friend of mine, Mr Robin O’Hara. I think he may have
been at Miss Delorne’s flat at Oleander Mansions on the night of October
4th last year. Now Mrs Thompson tells me she was in hospital for the
first ten days of October, and that you were taking her place at
Oleander Mansions, so I wondered whether you could give me any
information that would help me.”

Beatrice rolled the blue eyes.

“Ooh!” she said. “There are fifteen flats on that stair, and people
always coming and going. I couldn’t say I knew any of them unless it was
some of the residents. That Miss Delorne now—I’d know her again
anywhere. Lovely clothes she had—and I don’t know why everyone wants to
think there’s something wrong just because a girl makes something of
herself and knows how to make herself look smart.”

Bill discerned a personal grievance. He could readily imagine that Mrs
Thompson might not find herself in entire agreement with her daughter
about such vanities as lipstick. He said pleasantly,

“Well, it’s just possible you might have noticed my friend. I’ve got
some photographs upstairs. If you’ll excuse me for a moment, I’ll get
them.”

He came back with the photographs, to find her sitting in a carefully
arranged attitude, copied probably from the latest drama she had seen.
He hoped she wasn’t going to be so taken up with playing her part that
she wouldn’t be able to attend to business.

He produced three leaves which he had detached from his photograph album
and gave them to her one by one. The first was a group taken at a school
dinner about two years ago. He was in it, and so was Robin O’Hara. The
second displayed several snapshots taken at Way’s End in the August
before Meg’s marriage. Robin appeared in two of them. The third was
Meg’s wedding group, with a line of bridesmaids, and the Professor
gazing absently out of the picture, and a radiant Meg, and Robin O’Hara
as a bridegroom.

Beatrice Thompson took each of the leaves, looked at it, and laid it on
her knee. When she came to the wedding group, she stared at it for some
time. Bill watched her, and did not know what to make of her expression.
It hardened. She looked less pretty. An odd fleeting likeness to Mrs
Thompson showed for a moment and was gone again. He thought she was
thinking, calculating, making up her mind what she was going to say. But
what she did say took him most completely by surprise. She handed him
back the wedding group, pointed with an ungloved forefinger at the
Professor, and said,

“I’ve seen that old gentleman.”

“_What?_” said Bill in a tone of quite ungovernable incredulity.

“That old gentleman,” said Miss Thompson, still pointing, “I’ve seen
him.” The forefinger had been roughened by work, but the nail had been
clipped to a point and stained a horrible scarlet. It pointed at the
Professor, and the drawling voice said with a little more drawl than
before, “I can swear to him.”

“Where?” said Bill. What he felt inclined to say was “Nonsense!”

“Coming out of Miss Delorne’s flat nine o’clock in the morning, and I’d
got my pail in the way, so I had to move it. And I took notice of him
very particular, because I thought at his time of life he ought to know
better, and whatever Miss Delorne wanted to take up with an old man like
that—well!” She paused, rolled her eyes, retrieved the refined accent
which had rather broken down, and said, “Disgusting, I call it.”

Bill found himself quite unable to believe a word she was saying. But
then, why was she saying it? It was quite impossible that she should
have seen the Professor coming out of Della Delorne’s flat at nine in
the morning.

“Miss Thompson,” he said, “I think you’ve made a mistake”—she shook her
head—“but leave that on one side for a moment and tell me, are you sure
you don’t recognize anyone else in these photographs?”

He thought she hesitated, and he thought that it was to cover her
hesitation that she said pertly,

“If you’ll tell me who you want me to recognize, I might have a shot at
it.”

“Look here,” he said, “that’s no good. If you don’t recognize anyone,
say so. But if you do—and I think you do—why then—”

“What?” said Miss Thompson succinctly.

“I gave your mother five pounds,” said Bill. “That was for taking up her
time, not for what she told me, because she didn’t tell me anything of
the very slightest value.”

“_Five pounds_—” She breathed the words in a voice that was most purely
and sincerely natural—a pretty little London voice, trembling with
emotion at the thought of what five pounds would buy. A string of real
cultured pearls—you could get them for a guinea.... A real foxaline fur
... A pair of shoes with heels like stilts ... A bag—silk stockings....
Her face glowed with positive beauty as she gazed at Bill. “Coo!” she
said. It was the merest involuntary breath of rapture. Then a shrewd
look came into the large blue eyes. She sat up straight in her chair and
prepared to drive a bargain. “You’d give me five pounds—honest?”

“Look here,” said Bill, “I’ll give you ten bob for your trouble in
coming here, and if you can really tell me anything that will be of use
to me, you shall have your fiver. But please don’t make anything up,
because I shall know if you do.”

She threw him a sharp, good-humoured glance. He had wondered if she
would take offence, but this was business, and the drawling would-be
fine lady was in abeyance. This was a girl who could take hard knocks
and give them.

She said, “I don’t need to make things up. If I make up my mind to tell
you, it’ll be what happened—but I haven’t made up my mind yet.”

“I’ll give you five minutes,” said Bill, and wondered whether, after
all, he was giving her time to fake a story, but he had to let the
Ogilvies know that he was probably going to be late for dinner.

He got Jim Ogilvie on the telephone, and was told that they were alone
and he could be as late as he liked.

He came back to Beatrice Thompson. She hadn’t moved, but he thought that
she had made up her mind.

“Well?” he said.

“Well, it’s this way.” She lifted her chin and looked at him. “Mum don’t
know—that’s what I’m boggling at. And what I want to know is this—is
all this just a private talk between you and me, or is there any
likelihoods of a police-court case, and things in the papers, and no
saying where it’s going to stop?”

The girl had a head on her shoulders. What she had to tell was the more
likely to be of value. He said honestly,

“I don’t know, Miss Thompson. I’ve no connection with the police. Mr
O’Hara disappeared a year ago, and it is quite possible that he was
murdered—but please keep that to yourself.”

“Then I couldn’t do it for five pounds.” The blue eyes were as hard as
marbles.

He offered her ten, and she raised him to fifteen, and then stuck out
for a bonus if it should come to a case in court.

“Not that there’s any harm, but Mum’s old-fashioned—well, there, you’ve
seen her for yourself. It’s going to upset her because I didn’t tell her
at the time, but I don’t want to upset her for nothing.”

Bill reflected that twenty pounds between them ought to have a soothing
effect on Mrs Thompson’s feelings. And then he felt rather ashamed of
himself because the girl said half defiantly,

“She’s been a jolly good mother to us. She’s worked her fingers to the
bone ever since Dad died, and it takes some doing with six, and none of
them earning. You needn’t think it’s because I’m afraid of her, because
I’m not.”

“All right,” said Bill. “And now let’s have it, whatever it is.”

She sat forward a little with her elbows on her knees and dropped her
voice to a confidential tone.

“Well, it was like this, Mr Coverdale. Mother was in hospital like she
told you, and I was out of a job just then, and she asked me would I
keep her place open, so I did, though I didn’t like spoiling my
hands—I’m a waitress by rights.”

“Yes?” said Bill encouragingly.

“It was the fourth of October you wanted to hear about?”

“Yes.”

She gave a little laugh.

“That’s an easy date for me to remember, because it’s my birthday. Well,
I’d been doing Mum’s job for three or four days, and I’d got friendly
with a girl in one of the flats—Mabel her name was. She worked in the
flat just opposite that Miss Delorne. Well, come the day before my
birthday—that’s October 3rd a year ago—we got talking, and I said it
was my birthday next day and my friend wanted to take me out for a
treat—he’s a real nice boy, and he’s got a good job and doing well in
it. And Mabel told me her people were going away for two nights. She
said, why not make up a party, her and me, and her boy friend and mine,
and go to the new Palais de Danse which is just round the corner from
Oleander Mansions, and me come back and sleep with her for company. She
said her people had offered her to have her sister if she liked, but she
said she’d rather have me, because her sister was one of those girls
that can’t keep their hands off another girl’s boy, so she didn’t want
to have her butting in.”

Bill said, “I see—”

“Mean, I call it!” said Miss Thompson with energy. “Mum’d have slapped
any of us, and a good job too—that sort want smacking. Well, we fixed
it up, and I don’t know when I enjoyed a party more. But I didn’t tell
Mum because of her being in hospital, and I knew she’d just lie there
and worry, and make sure I was on the road to ruin—as if a girl
couldn’t get into trouble without ever going out of our street, if she
wanted to. But it’s no good arguing with Mum—it’s the way she’s made.”

“Well, you had your party. And then?”

“George and Ernie took us home—back to Oleander Mansions, that is—and
I won’t say we weren’t larking about a bit down in the entrance. Mabel
had got her key and she let us in, and the boys said good-night, and
there was some joking and larking going on, but all very quiet so as not
to disturb anyone. There’s a night porter, but he don’t come unless you
ring for him, and there’s nobody working the lift, but those that want
to can work it themselves—anyhow the staff’s not supposed to. So Mabel
and me walked up the stairs. Her flat’s on the third floor, and she’d
just got the door open when I found I’d dropped my bag. ‘Coo!’ I said.
‘That’s young Ernie and his nonsense. And I’m not going to lose that
bag,’ I said, ‘with my new lipstick in it and all.’ And Mabel, she said
she wasn’t going down all those stairs again, not for anybody. ‘And you
won’t find it if you go,’ she said, ‘for as like as not you dropped it
in the street.’ Well, I knew I hadn’t, so I ran down, and there it was,
right by the door where Ernie had been carrying on. So I picked it up
and back up the stairs with it, and when I come to the landing Mabel had
gone in and left the door on the jar. I was just going to push it, when
the door across the landing opened and a gentleman came out.”

She picked up the wedding group and pointed with her scarlet finger-nail
at Robin O’Hara.

“That gentleman,” she said, and sat back.

Bill’s heart beat quicker.

“Sure?” he said.

She took up the other two sheets, and pointed out Robin O’Hara in each
of the photographs.

“It was that gentleman.”

“How was he dressed?” said Bill.

Beatrice sat forward again.

“He’d taken his coat off. He’d a fancy striped shirt on, and a collar to
match, and some kind of tie with a stripe in it, and dark trousers—navy
blue, I think. He’d taken his waistcoat off, and he’d got his shoes in
his hand putting them out. The porter does them for the gentlemen if
they make an arrangement.”

“Then he’d been there before?”

“Looked like it,” said Miss Thompson. “And Mabel said—”

“Well?”

“I described him, and she said he passed for Miss Delorne’s brother,
only nobody believed it.”

“Go on,” said Bill. “Or is that all?”

“Not by half it isn’t,” said Miss Thompson with vigour.

“Well, what happened?”

“He pulled the door to behind him, and he put down his boots and come
across very soft on his stocking feet. I’d my hand on the door and Mabel
in call, so I wasn’t frightened, and he didn’t try to touch me. He stood
a yard away and said very soft, ‘Will you take a message for me? It’s
important.’ And I said, ‘What—_now_?’ and he said ‘Tomorrow will do.’
And whilst he was saying it he was writing on a bit of paper with a
pencil he’d taken out of his trouser pocket, and he put the paper in my
hand with a ten-shilling note, and back across the landing and in at
Miss Delorne’s flat without another word.”

What an odd story. If she wasn’t making it up, what had happened to the
message? He said that out loud.

“What happened to the message? Did you take it?”

Miss Thompson blinked. She opened her mouth to speak and shut it again.

“Well?” said Bill impatiently.

“Well, that’s just where it’s a bit awkward,” said Miss Thompson. “I put
it in my bag and I went into the flat, and Mabel wanted to know what had
kept me, so I told her, and she said she didn’t believe me, teasing
like. So I said, ‘Seeing’s believing,’ and I showed her the note. Well
then, she wanted to read it, and I said she shouldn’t, and she said she
was going to, and she made a snatch and it got torn between us. ‘Now see
what you’ve done!’ I said. And she said ‘Well, you can’t go taking a
note like that,’ and before I could stop her she’d put it on the kitchen
fire.”

An extraordinary sensation swept over Bill. Robin O’Hara creeping out of
Della Delorne’s flat and seizing a desperate eleventh hour chance of
sending a message—two girls playing, and the message gone up in
smoke—Robin’s life gone too.... What was the message? To whom was it
written? And why was it written? Yes, that above all—why was it
written? Had he just learned something vital? Had he already embarked
upon a hazardous course, attempted at the last moment to safeguard
himself by a message to Garratt or to Meg?

He looked up, to find Beatrice Thompson’s eyes fixed on him with a
curious expression. He guessed at an impulse held in check by doubt or
prudence. An illuminating flash passed through his mind. He leaned
forward with an abrupt movement and said,

“You wouldn’t let Mabel read the note, but did you read it yourself?”

A blush rose becomingly in Miss Beatrice Thompson’s cheeks. She blinked
again and said,

“Well, Mr Coverdale, I did.”




                                   XX


Bill was conscious of triumph, suspense, anticipation. He leaned forward
and said insistently,

“You _did_. I thought so. What was in it?”

“It was only a line, Mr Coverdale.” She was leaning towards him in
voluble explanation. “It was only a line, and I suppose I oughtn’t to
have looked, but it wasn’t like an ordinary note, him being a stranger
and coming out of that Miss Delorne’s flat like that in the middle of
the night. I thought I’d just see what kind of a message it was he was
asking me to take, because Mum’s got a story about a girl that was given
a note in the street and five shillings to take it, and the envelope
came unstuck and she looked inside, and it said, ‘Keep the bearer till I
come,’ and no name at the end, only initials. Whiteslavers, that was. So
I thought I’d have a look just in case. But it was only one line, and
all it said was, ‘Going down to some place or other,’ and initials
signed to it. And I can’t remember what the first one was, but there was
an O, and an H after that, tight up to each other with a sort of a comma
between them.”

Was she making it up? No, he was sure she wasn’t. But the message—he
must get the message straightened out. He said,

“Please, Miss Thompson, think carefully. That message may be most
awfully important. Where did he say he was going?”

She rolled her eyes at him in a puzzled way.

“It was some place or other, Mr Coverdale.”

And all at once there was a most frightful thought in his mind. “Some
place or other, or some Place or other?” Which did she mean, and how was
he to find out without asking a leading question? He got a piece of the
hotel paper and gave it to her with a pencil out of his own pocket.

“Now, Miss Thompson, will you write that message down as nearly as
possible as you saw it? Write down everything you remember seeing, even
if it’s only part of a word. Give me as much as you can.”

She rested the paper on the wedding photograph and wrote the first few
words quickly, then stopped, lifted the pencil and wrote again, leaving
a gap. Then, frowning, she bent over the paper, pencil poised, and all
at once with a quick movement she scribbled in the empty space.

“There!” she said and pushed the paper at him. “That’s the best I can
do. I can’t swear to the name but it was something like that.”

Bill read in a neat characterless hand, “I am going down to—” and then
a gap, and then a scribble that looked like “stow.” Then, most decidedly
and unmistakeably, “Place,” with a capital p. All his pulses jumped. “I
am going down to—stow Place.”

He had to put his leading question then. He couldn’t keep it back.

He said, “Was it Ledstow Place?” and she blinked at him and said,

“Oh _yes_, Mr Coverdale, it was.”

“Are you sure?”

She nodded and laughed.

“Oh yes. So soon as you said it I could see it just like he’d written it
down.”

Ledstow Place! It seemed incredible. Four days after he had disappeared
Robin O’Hara had been in Oleander Mansions at Della Delorne’s flat, and
he had tried to send a note to say that he was going down to Ledstow
Place ... who was the note for? He asked the question with a rising
excitement.

“And who was it addressed to?”

“Well, that’s what I didn’t see, and I was going to tell you about it.
If I’d had the name and address, I’d have taken the message in the
morning, as much as I could remember of it, but it was only the inside
I’d looked at, and there was nothing to go by. Well, after the note got
torn and Mabel had put it on the fire, which she’d no business to do,
and so I told her, I began to think what I could do, because I’d got his
ten-shilling note. Then it come to me p’raps I could go across to Miss
Delorne’s flat and just let him know I’d had an accident with his note.
I told Mabel what I was going to do, and she promised to leave the door
open and be just inside, but when I got half way across the landing I
didn’t go any further.” A funny little shiver passed over her and she
stopped.

“Why didn’t you?” said Bill quickly.

“Well, it sounds silly, Mr Coverdale, but his shoes were gone.”

“His shoes?”

She shivered again.

“I told you he was in his stocking feet with his shoes in his hand,
putting them out for the porter. And then five minutes after they
weren’t there. It sounds awful silly, but I got a kind of a creep down
my back when I saw they weren’t there, and I couldn’t have gone on and
knocked on the door, not for anything in the world I couldn’t.”

Bill sat in a frowning silence. Was Robin being so watched that he had
to have an excuse for opening the door of Della Delorne’s flat? He had
come out with the shoes in his hand, and put them down, and gone back
into the flat after writing his note and giving it to Beatrice Thompson.
And then, five minutes afterwards, the shoes were gone again.

That looked as if the shoes were an excuse. He was doing something he
didn’t want known, and if he was heard opening the door, the shoes would
be a very good excuse. But he couldn’t have counted on Beatrice
Thompson. What was he planning to do when he came out with those shoes
in his hand, very quietly and in his stocking feet? He had a slip of
paper ready. And a pencil. And a ten-shilling note. All very handy. Bill
thought he must have planned to put his message and the ten-shilling
note through the letter-box of the opposite flat and chance Mabel’s
getting it to its destination—any decent girl would. If he had to write
the note out there on the landing, someone must have been watching him
pretty closely in the flat. The someone would be Della Delorne. That
brought her into the affair of his murder with a vengeance. If she
wasn’t in it, if he wasn’t suspecting her, he could have written his
note under her eyes and walked round to the post with it. There would
have been no reason why he shouldn’t.

No, he had been on the track of some very dangerous people—this on
Garratt’s authority—and the track had led him to his death.

And this—this was the last living sight of Robin O’Hara—a figure
emerging stealthily from Della Delorne’s flat, sending, or trying to
send, an eleventh-hour message, and then vanishing into the flat again,
or so off the map and out of everybody’s ken.

And that eleventh-hour message—“I am going down to Ledstow Place.”

The track ended at Ledstow Place.

The violence of his mental reaction brought his head up with a jerk. It
was nonsense. It was the most completely damnable nonsense. And then,
sitting there in the hotel lounge with Beatrice Thompson gazing at him
between interest and alarm, two things happened in his mind. They
happened simultaneously but separately. It was like being aware of two
quite different scenes on the same brightly lighted stage.

On the one hand he saw a window break suddenly, and on the other he saw
Beatrice Thompson look at Meg’s wedding group and point with a scarlet
fingernail. The window was a top-storey window of the house on the
island at Ledstow Place. He looked back over his shoulder in the dusk,
caught a fleeting gleam of daylight on the glass, and saw it
break—suddenly, inexplicably. The scarlet nail pointed at the
Professor. Miss Thompson’s voice said eagerly, “I’ve seen that old
gentleman;” and then, “Coming out of Miss Delorne’s flat—nine o’clock
in the morning;” and then, “Disgusting, I call it.”

And the track which Robin O’Hara was following had led to Ledstow Place.

_It wasn’t possible._

He clenched his hands and forced his voice.

“Miss Thompson—why did you say that you recognized someone else in that
group you’ve got there?”

She rolled her eyes.

“I don’t know what you mean.”

“Then you’ve a very short memory.” He leaned across and picked up the
wedding group. “When I first showed you this, you said you recognized
someone. Not Mr O’Hara—you didn’t say anything about him to start with.
I want to know why.”

The eyes ceased to roll. They became shrewd and businesslike.

“Well, we hadn’t fixed anything up then—had we? Of course I recognized
_him_ right away.” She pointed at Robin in his bridegroom’s array. “I
recognized _him_ all right, but I wasn’t going to say so till we’d got
the business part settled. Well, you know how it is—a girl’s got to
look out for herself or she’ll get left.”

A tremendous feeling of relief came over Bill.

“Then you didn’t really see the Professor—the old gentleman—at all?”

Miss Thompson tossed her head.

“I don’t tell lies, Mr Coverdale! Of course I’d seen him—like I told
you. Coming out of Miss Delorne’s flat he was, at nine o’clock in the
morning, and looking as pleased with himself as a cat that’s been at the
cream, the horrid old man.”

The dead weight of apprehension settled slowly down again. The
Professor? Incredible. But this girl wasn’t lying. She had really seen
him coming out of Della Delorne’s flat.... She couldn’t have seen him.
It was impossible.

“Are you sure?”

She nodded.

“He hasn’t got a beard in the photograph, of course,” she said.

“Then you can’t be sure.”

“The one I saw had a beard. And he walked sort of lame. Does this one
walk lame? Because if he does, it would kind of prove it was him,
wouldn’t it?”

Bill took the photograph away from her and laid it down. There wasn’t
anything more to say. That leonine head with its shock of white hair
would be easily recognized, beard or no beard. But the limp made the
recognition certain. It was the Professor whom she had seen. There was
only one more question to ask.

“When did you see him?”

Miss Thompson considered.

“Well, the fourth was my birthday, October the fourth, the night the
other one, Mr O’Hara, gave me the note, only by the time it came to that
it was well over midnight and we’d got into October the fifth, and it
wasn’t that day I saw the old gentleman, but it was the next, and that
would make it October the sixth. And it was nine o’clock in the morning,
like I told you, and he came on out and down the stairs, and that was
the last I saw of him.” She got up and began to button her coat. “If
that’s all, Mr Coverdale, I’ll be getting along. It’s not the
Palais-de-Danse tonight, but we did think about going to the pictures,
so if there isn’t anything more—”

There wasn’t anything more.

He paid her, shook hands, saw her out, and came back again to the place
where they had talked. There wasn’t anything more. The phrase summed up
the feeling which was pressing in upon him and which he was resisting
with an ever-weakening conviction. There wasn’t anything more. He had
followed the track which Robin O’Hara had followed. It led to the
Professor, and to Ledstow Place, and it broke off short there. He felt
as if he were standing on the edge of a cliff where the path had broken
off and where one step more might take him over the edge. Robin O’Hara
had gone down to Ledstow Place. Had that been the step which had taken
_him_ over the edge?

Meg was at Ledstow Place now.

A horrible cold fear swept over him, quite instinctive, quite
unreasoning.

And then and there he remembered Meg talking to him on the telephone
yesterday—“A tram—a beastly juggernaut of a tram” ... “I nearly came
to a sticky end....” “I suppose I slipped....” Was that to have been the
step over the edge for Meg?

All at once, out of the horror and confusion which filled his mind,
there emerged a clear and definite conclusion. Meg must be got away from
Ledstow Place—now—at once—before anything else could happen. He
hadn’t the slightest idea what excuse he was going to make or how he was
going to get her away. He only knew that he was going to do it.

From the telephone-box he rang up Jim Ogilvie and told him that he was
called out of town. Perhaps it was a memory of Robin O’Hara that made
him add, “I have to go down to Ledstow—a family emergency.”

He tried for Garratt next, to be told that he was out. He didn’t know
whether to be glad or sorry. Garratt would have to know what the
Thompson girl had said, but he had no time to waste on letting him know
tonight, and no patience or temper to listen to Garratt telling him he
had found another mare’s nest. Yet he gave the same message to Garratt’s
man that he had given to Jim Ogilvie.

“Tell him I’ve gone down to Ledstow. Tell him I’ll call him up. The
address is Ledstow Place.”

And with that he rang off and went out to get his car and to drive
furiously through the dark upon the Ledlington road.




                                  XXI


Meg had lunch with Miss Cannock in the room that would have been the
study if Uncle Henry hadn’t had his study over on the island. This room,
in which the Professor sat immersed and wrote the great work which was
to bring down the high look and proud stomach of Hoppenglocker and all
Hoppenglockerites, was by common consent the Study. As a result no one
quite knew what to call the other room. It had, therefore, no official
title, and was variously alluded to by members of the household.

Meg found herself thinking of it as the Blue Room because of her blue
curtains and the delphiniums in the chintz which she had chosen for
it—no, not for it, but for its furniture—in the days when she and the
furniture had a home at Way’s End. The chintz was getting very shabby
now. Miller called it the hall room and Miss Cannock the morning room.

It was not a very comfortable place for meals. A folding table had to be
brought in from the hall and cleared away again afterwards. There was
nowhere to put a joint if one had to be carved, and there was nowhere to
stand any extra plates or dishes except the writing-table, so that at
every meal there was the feeling that the house was being turned out,
and that at any moment removers might appear to pack up the furniture
and take it away. As for the joint difficulty, Mrs Miller met this by
the simple expedient of not cooking one, her idea of lunch for two
ladies being three cutlets and a rice pudding one day, and three cutlets
and a blancmange the next.

The third cutlet set up a delicate situation. Miss Cannock in her role
of hostess—and how odd to see someone else being hostess in Uncle
Henry’s house—was bound to offer it to Meg. Meg, hungry but polite, as
became a guest, was bound to refuse. Whereupon Miss Cannock with an
archly irritating laugh would daily remark, “Perhaps I had better save
its life, or Mrs Miller’s feelings may be hurt.” The cutlets were very
small, and Meg’s exasperation grew. After all, Miss Cannock was
indubitably the housekeeper, and could order four cutlets or even six if
so disposed.

Today when offered the last cutlet, Meg thought with a sudden spurt of
suspicion, “I wonder if she’s starving Uncle Henry,” and, nerved by
this, she said, “Yes, thank you,” whereupon Miss Cannock helped her, and
then sat gazing mournfully at her own empty plate. Meg was hungry, but
it was all she could do to finish the cutlet. Miss Cannock looked
ridiculously forlorn sitting there opposite her, fidgeting with that
silly long scarf which she always wore and which was continually
catching in something or falling off. She got out her handkerchief and
rubbed the tip of her nose with it. She patted that old-fashioned fringe
of hers, she straightened her scarf, she sighed. Meg swallowed the last
bit of cutlet in a hurry and said,

“I do hope it’s not going to rain.”

Miss Cannock sighed again.

“I am afraid it is not at all cheerful for you down here. Mr
Postlethwaite is at the most critical point of his book, and I am
naturally much occupied with him.”

“You know,” said Meg, “he ought not to shut himself up like this—it’s
quite terribly bad for him. He always did try to do it, but we didn’t
let him. I tell you what, I’ll go over and see if I can’t drag him out
for a walk this afternoon.”

The door opened and Miller came in. He removed the dish which had held
the cutlets and placed a very small milk pudding in front of Miss
Cannock, who seemed to be too much flustered to attend to it.

“Oh, Mrs O’Hara—indeed—I couldn’t! Mr Postlethwaite can be quite
severe, and his orders—his most stringent orders—are that no one
should interrupt him when he is writing. Besides he locks himself in,
you know, at the far end of the bridge, and though he has entrusted me
with the key of the door on this side, it is on the distinct
understanding that I do not let it out of my keeping.” Her fluttering,
fidgeting hands picked up a tablespoon and a large fork. “And now may I
give you a little of this pudding?” She peered at it short-sightedly.
“Rice, I believe—yes, rice. And I fear that Mrs Miller has burnt it.”

Meg’s back was up. If Uncle Henry was being fed on about half a cutlet
and a scrape of burnt rice pudding, it was about time somebody did
something about it. As a cook this Miller creature was a complete fraud.
Remembering the Evanses, she boiled over.

“She’s a very bad cook,” she said.

Miss Cannock handed her a portion of dry pudding surrounded by black
skin.

“Oh, do you think so? Mr Postlethwaite has been quite satisfied with
her, I believe—but this pudding does seem—”

“Uncle Henry doesn’t notice,” said Meg. “But it’s terribly bad for him.
He’d much better get rid of these Millers and have the Evanses back. I
can’t think why he ever parted with them. I would never have let him if
I’d been there. They looked after him so beautifully and understood all
his ways, and Mrs Evans was the most melting cook.” Meg stopped abruptly
because Miss Cannock, abandoning her pudding, was applying her
handkerchief both to her nose and to the corners of her eyes with a hand
which was shaking with emotion.

“It’s very hard,” she said in a trembling voice. “I’ve done my best, and
Mr Postlethwaite has been satisfied.” She paused, gulped, and dabbed
with increasing vigour. “It’s so easy to come down and—find fault. And
this isn’t London, and of course you have no idea of the difficulties of
catering—so far away from the shops—and fish only twice a week unless
you go into Ledlington specially—and of course I was engaged—as a
secretary—and had no idea that I would—be held—responsible—for the
housekeeping—for which I cannot feel that I have any aptitude—and
which was never mentioned by Mr Postlethwaite when—he engaged me.”

Meg cursed herself for a fool. Why on earth hadn’t she held her tongue?
The Cannock bridling and fussing was bad enough, but the Cannock head
over ears in a grievance and requiring consolation was worse—much
worse. Her nose was growing steadily pinker and her sniffs more
poignant. It took Meg a quarter of an hour to persuade her to stop
dabbing her eyes and to eat her now horribly congealed pudding.

She escape as soon as she could to her own room. The whole question of
Uncle Henry—his meals, his domestic staff, and when if ever Meg might
expect him to emerge from the book sufficiently to become aware that she
was a guest in his house, had been most effectually shelved. Meg felt as
if she couldn’t stay in the house another second. A secretary with a
temper would have roused her own temper to give battle, but a weak, meek
dreep of a secretary who oozed tears and went pink at the nose on the
slightest provocation or without any provocation at all merely induced
that frame of mind in which you hastily buy a ticket for China, or Peru,
or Popocatapetl.

“What a place—what a woman—what weather!” she exclaimed to herself as
she came out of the front door into a thin cold drizzle. A low mist
brooded over the ground, all ready to turn into fog when the dusk came
down. Now there probably wouldn’t be any fog in Peru.

As she crossed the neglected gravel, she pleased herself with the fancy
that an aeroplane might at any moment come swooping down out of the low
grey clouds. There would be plenty of room for it to land in the park,
and she would get in and fly away, and never have to eat Mrs Miller’s
rice pudding, or console Miss Cannock again. The pilot was a little
nebulous, and the destination anywhere in the world. It was a very
pleasant fancy, and it would have been even pleasanter if she had not
had the feeling that she might suddenly discover the pilot was Bill
Coverdale—and of course that wouldn’t do at all. For one thing he had
just written her a perfect beast of a letter and he certainly wouldn’t
want to fly away with her to the ends of the earth, and for another even
if he did want to she couldn’t possibly fly with him. “Oh no, no, no!”
said Meg, and woke up out of her day-dream to scold herself. But of
course this was just the sort of place to make you go crazy and start
talking to yourself.

She had turned to the right without much thought, and was now at the
point where the drive, skirting the lake, rose a little above it and
then dipped again. It was from this place that Bill Coverdale, looking
towards the island, had seen a window suddenly break where the house
looked over the wall that guarded it. Meg stopped as Bill had done, and
looked across the water as he had looked. It was a natural vantage point
from which the gaunt barrack of a house, the island, and the bridge
which linked them were all very clear. The wall round the island house
was so high that it could only just be seen—the roof and two small
windows. But one of them was broken. It was funny that Meg should have
thought of that, because at once she corrected the thought and told
herself that the window was open. Not broken—open. And then she had to
correct herself again, because if it was a sash window, half the frame
would still be filled with glass. And it couldn’t be a casement, because
every casement window in the world opened outwards. And if it opened
outwards, where was it? No, she had to come back to her odd first
impression of a window broken and the glass stripped clear of the frame
so that the house now peered at her over the wall and across the water
with one bright eye and one blank one. It gave her a queer sort of
feeling and one she didn’t much like. It was horribly bad for Uncle
Henry to shut himself up in that walled-in poke of a house, with the
water right up to the walls and probably everything streaming with damp.
Miss Cannock didn’t look as if she would ever think of having anything
aired, and as for the Millers, Meg placed no dependence on them. The
house was dirty and ill-kept, the meals were deplorable, and as Uncle
Henry never noticed anything, the house on the island was probably even
worse. She made up her mind that, tears or no tears, she must insist on
seeing him. Only if Miss Cannock wouldn’t give up the key, what was she
going to do about it?

“What a life!” said Meg, and went on walking down towards the gates.

She thought she would go into the village to buy some stamps. She wasn’t
going to answer Bill’s horrid icy letter today, but perhaps tomorrow she
would write him a few equally chilly lines, just to show that she didn’t
care. The post-office was the general shop next door to the pub. Perhaps
she would see William digging manure into the pub garden. What a
thrilling thought! All at once she wondered whether the post-office had
a telephone. Of course she hadn’t the slightest intention of ringing
Bill up—not today anyway—but it would be rather nice to feel that she
could do it if she wanted to.

She arrived at the gates, tried them as a matter of form, and found them
locked. This was only what she had expected. She would have to get one
of the Hendersons to open them for her. The lodge door being unprovided
with either a bell or a knocker, she was obliged to rap on it with her
knuckles. It was a very hard door. The chocolate paint was peeling off,
the doorstep looked as if no one had cleaned it for years, and the
windows which flanked it on either side were dirty and closely
curtained. Meg knocked half a dozen times and then went round to the
back. There was a strong smell of dustbins and a nasty litter of old
newspapers, cabbage-stalks, potato peelings, and crusts of bread.

Mentally apostrophising Mrs Henderson as an old pig, Meg picked her way
to the back door and banged upon it with her clenched fist. When she had
banged half a dozen times she stopped to listen, and heard a slow,
dragging footstep come down the stair. Presently the door swung in a
little way and Mrs Henderson looked round it with a furtive air.

Meg said “Good afternoon,” and received no response, only that
suspicious stare. She had a horrid undecided feeling between being angry
and something else. The something else was being frightened, only she
pushed it quickly into a dark cupboard and locked the door on it because
it was too positively inane. How could she possibly be frightened when
there wasn’t anything to be frightened of?

She said quickly, “Oh, will you please unlock the gate? I’m going into
the village.”

Mrs Henderson went on staring at her without opening the door any wider.
She was very dirty and unkempt. After a considerable pause she said,

“I’m hard of hearing.”

Meg had to come nearer, and didn’t like it.

“The gates are locked. I want to go into the village.”

Mrs Henderson nodded.

“They’re always locked. That’s orders.”

“But I want to go into the village.”

Mrs Henderson shook her head with its sparse untidy hair.

“I’m very hard of hearing.”

Meg spoke louder, and pointed.

“I want to go out. I want you to open the gates.”

Mrs Henderson shook her head again.

“Can’t be done. They’re to be kept locked—Mr Postlethwaite’s orders.”

Meg said “Nonsense!” in a tone of brisk rage, and Mrs Henderson shut the
door in her face.

She not only shut it, she shot the bolt inside. Meg heard the whingeing
creak as it went home. Then she heard Mrs Henderson go upstairs again
with the heel of a downtrodden slipper slapping on every step.

“_Well!_” said Meg, and boiled with righteous wrath.

There was nothing for it but to go away, and as quickly as possible Meg
went. But that slammed and bolted door had changed her lukewarm feeling
that she might as well go and buy some stamps in the village to a
stubborn determination to get there at any cost. The cost would be to
her clothes, since she would have to get over the wall, but she meant to
do it, and once outside, and the stamps in her pocket, even Mrs
Henderson could scarcely refuse to let her in again. Somewhere in the
depths of her heart Meg was aware that a refusal wouldn’t blight her
very much. She would be able to bear with fortitude being locked out of
Ledstow Place. But of course she wouldn’t be locked out, and she hadn’t
even got over the wall yet. She worked her way along it on the left of
the gates. There was a thick belt of shrubbery next to the drive, but
between it and the wall there ran a sodden, neglected path slippery with
clay and slimy with moss. There was therefore no hope of a tree with
friendly branches to serve as a step-ladder. The wall was some eight
feet high, built of brick with a small coping on the top, and it was in
very good repair.

After about thirty yards the shrubbery stopped, and the path with it. In
front of her now was the rough open park, with an occasional tree or
clump of trees, and the wall running on, sheer, bare, and unclimbable.
None of the trees were anywhere near it. Meg decided that her proud
spirit would just have to bend to necessity, and that the stamps must
wait for another day. There was, after all, no raging hurry. She hadn’t
meant to write to Bill till tomorrow anyhow.

She turned round and went back to the house. The drizzle was turning to
rain, and there was no sense in getting wet—she hadn’t enough clothes
for that. She walked fast, and as she walked, she made up her mind to
see Uncle Henry as soon as possible. She would have to insist on seeing
him. It really wasn’t Miss Cannock’s place to make difficulties, and Meg
was prepared to be extremely firm. Since he was at a critical point in
his book, she wouldn’t complain about Mrs Henderson’s rudeness, but she
must insist on his giving definite orders that she was to be let out
whenever she chose. This sort of prison gate and eight-foot wall
business was absolutely medieval. If he really wanted to be left alone
with his Millers, and his Cannock, and his revoltingly rude Hendersons,
he’d only got to say so, revive her suspended allowance, and press a
cheque into her hand, and no one would depart more joyfully than his
unwanted niece.

These meditations lasted her to the front door, which she found not
quite open and not quite shut. She had given it a brisk bang when she
started on her walk and it must have rebounded before the latch could
click. She didn’t bang it now. She wanted to get up to her room without
encountering Miss Cannock, of whom she felt she had had a just
sufficiency. She therefore closed the door very gently and went softly
up the stairs. If the house was neglected, it was solid. Not a step
creaked.

She reached her room and shut herself in.




                                  XXII


Meg looked up from the book she was reading and glanced at her
wrist-watch. It was five-and-twenty past four. She had drawn the
curtains and switched on the light when she came in. Her chair was
comfortable—it was her own old bedroom chair—and her book was one of
those pleasant old-fashioned ones in which nothing very much happens, in
a very pleasant old-fashioned way. She wondered if there was going to be
any tea. She had a raging tea-urge, but one of the irritating things
about life at Ledstow Place was that you never knew whether there was
going to be tea or not. Some days there was, and some days there wasn’t,
and you never knew which it was going to be until it was half past four
and the tea either arrived or didn’t arrive. It was one of the things
which filled Meg with a yearning to take the invaluable Millers by the
scruff of their necks, knock their heads together with a good resounding
bang, and give them the permanent push. It pleased her very much to
dream of doing this, but it was a regretful pleasure, because she could
see no immediate chance of making the dream come true.

The tea-urge grew stronger. Unwarned by her encounter with Mrs
Henderson, it occurred to Meg that after all she could order tea. What
was there to prevent her just going down to the blue room and ringing
the bell for Miller. If she told him to bring her some tea, he could
hardly refuse point blank.

_But suppose he did._

It was a most frightfully daunting thought, and it ought to have been an
impossible one, but somehow it wasn’t. It undermined Meg’s morale a good
deal. There was something about Miller and there was something about
Henderson which was a warning against any assumption of authority. She
would not have kept either of them in her own service for a day, but the
fact that they were in Uncle Henry’s service and that Uncle Henry was
completely inaccessible had a very sobering effect.

She came out of her room and stood there listening. There wasn’t a sound
of any kind in the house. She went along the gallery and down the
passage that turned out of it to the bathroom to wash her hands, and it
was while she was letting the so-called hot tap run in the hope that it
might, if given time, live up to its name that she had a bright idea. If
she went down the back stairs as she had done on the day of her arrival
she would probably be able to hear whether there was any prospect of tea
or not. There is a particular kettle-cum-teapot-cum-cup-and-saucer kind
of clatter which permeates any back premises when tea is being got
ready. If she hung over the back stairs she would know whether to
nourish hope or to abandon it.

She dried her hands on a horrid limp towel which looked and felt as if
it had been hanging there for weeks, and then went to the door at the
top of the crooked stair. She couldn’t hear a sound, but if the door at
the bottom was shut, the rattle of china and the chink of tea-spoons
might very well be lost. She went down as she had done before, and
wondered what she was going to say if she met Miller or Mrs Miller
coming up. As a matter of fact she had never set eyes on Mrs Miller,
though she supposed she had heard her voice. It seemed very difficult to
think of the owner of that light laugh and that odd thrilling voice as
being married to Miller.

This time the door at the bottom of the stairs was shut. Meg went right
down, set her hand on the knob, and hesitated. She ought to go back. She
was putting herself in an undignified position. She ought to turn right
round and get off the back stairs without a moment’s delay.

She stayed where she was, and without any conscious order from her brain
the hand which held the knob began to turn it. When the knob had moved a
certain distance the latch became disengaged, and the door, as if by its
own weight, swung slowly back until it touched her shoulder. There was a
gap of two or three inches. The passage beyond was dark in the twilight,
but a couple of yards away the kitchen door stood open and a bright
patch striped the gloom.

In the very moment that Meg saw these things she heard Miller say in a
grumbling, exasperated way,

“What’s the sense of waiting about? If a thing’s to be done, what I say
is, ‘Get on with it and get it done.’”

If this was Miller putting it across Mrs Miller because she was late
with the tea, it was all very well and good. But then why have a horrid
tricky feeling down the back of your spine, and why be reminded—oddly,
definitely, sharply reminded—of a scene in Macbeth and of somebody
saying, “When ’tis done, then ’twere well it were done quickly.” But she
couldn’t remember who said it—was it Macbeth?—and when she tried to
remember she couldn’t even be sure of the words.

The voice she supposed to be Mrs Miller’s was speaking now. It was
nearer to her than Miller’s voice had been—a voice with a thrill in it,
a calmly dominant voice, a very odd voice to belong to anyone who cooked
as badly as Mrs Miller did. It said,

“Who’s running this show? You’ll do as you’re told, and when I’m ready
I’ll let you know!”

Miller made some kind of movement. He must have jarred the tray. There
was a rattle of china. The light laugh which Meg had heard before rang
out.

“As a matter of fact, I’m ready now. There—does that please you?”

If it was the tea that was ready, what was Meg waiting for? She didn’t
know, but she couldn’t have moved to save her life.

Miller said in a changed tone, “How are you going to do it?”

“This—in the cup. Put out the cracked one so that there won’t be any
mistake. The stuff’s quite colourless.” This was the woman again,
speaking with an indifferent calm.

Meg heard her own heart beating with a strange loudness. A cracked
cup—so that there should be no mistake.... Something colourless in
it.... “If a thing’s to be done, get on with it and get it done.” ...
No, that was Miller. It was the woman who had said, “I’ll let you know
when I’m ready,” and, “I’m ready now.”

Meg still had hold of the door knob. Her straining grip pulled the door
towards her, but her weight as she leaned against it kept it from moving
any farther and maintained a steady gap of about two inches through
which she could see the light that barred the passage and hear the
voices that spoke within. And suddenly there was another voice, another
woman saying querulously and with a Cockney accent,

“I don’t like it, and I don’t see what you wanted to have her down here
for at all.”

“Don’t you?” The thrill in the voice was one of amusement and scorn.
“You take a lot of telling, Milly. Come along now—isn’t that kettle
boiling?”

Through the pounding of her heart Meg heard Milly sniff and say,

“Just about.”

“All right then, I’m off. Take the tea along, and if she isn’t down,
beat the gong.”

There was a light sound as if someone had jumped down from the kitchen
table. Meg had a picture of the owner of the voice sitting carelessly on
the table edge giving her orders and now—yes, _now_—coming across the
room, coming through the open door with the brightness of the lighted
room streaming past her. Instinctively, noiselessly, and swiftly Meg
pushed the door against which she was leaning. The gap through which she
had been looking and listening was gone. On the other side of the panel
she could hear light footsteps going away. She released the knob,
controlling her hand so that the latch should engage without any sound
at all. Then slowly and stiffly she turned round and went up the stairs.
And along the passage. And so by the corridor to her room. It seemed to
take a very long time—a very, very long time, because if she let go, if
she let her panic drive her, she would begin to run and perhaps to
scream. She mustn’t let go.

She got to her room, locked the door, and sat down upon the edge of the
bed. But as soon as she did that she felt the terror come up into her
throat as if it would choke her. And she mustn’t let it do that. You
can’t think when you’re frightened, and she had got to think, and think
quickly.

She went over to the washstand, tipped the contents of the jug into the
basin, and plunged her face into the ice-cold water. She came up
gasping, and did it again, and yet again. Then she dried her face and
made herself go and look in the glass, apply powder and lipstick, and
arrange her hair. Lipstick—plenty of lipstick—that was the thing. And
enough rouge to prevent anyone seeing how pale she was. She hardly ever
used rouge, because when she was well she had colour enough, and when
she wasn’t she thought it made her look worse, but she was thankful for
it today.

When she had finished, she felt steady and controlled. Make-up helped,
because it gave you the feeling of a part to be played. But in what a
ghastly play—what a nightmare of a play!

But was it? What had frightened her? After all, what had she heard? She
tried to go over it in her own mind, and found herself thinking less of
the words than of the voices. There had been two women and a man in the
kitchen. The man was Miller, but which of the women was Mrs Miller? She
couldn’t believe it was the one with the voice which at once attracted
and repelled her. Voice and laugh alike belonged to another world than
Miller’s. They had the easy habit of command, the ring of authority, the
consciousness of charm. No, it must be Milly who cooked the burnt rice
puddings and the skimpy tough cutlets. If the other woman cooked at all,
she would do it well. Whatever she did, it would be well done—you could
hear it in her voice. But who was she—who _was_ she?

The answer started out with a horrid plainness. She was someone from
whom the Millers took their orders—in Uncle Henry’s house, and behind
Uncle Henry’s back.

Right there Meg had a reaction. Her nerves were all wrong. She was
behaving like a fool. After all, what had been said? What orders had
been given? Never mind about the voices, get down to the words.
Think—_think_. You’ve got to get it right. You’ve got to remember
exactly what they said.

She put her head down in her hands and shut her eyes and thought. What
was the first thing she had heard?... “Who’s running this show? You’ll
do as you’re told,” and, “When I’m ready I’ll let you know.” ... Well,
there was nothing in that. But there was—there _was_. She was giving
orders, and who was she to give orders to Miller?... Then the next
thing—“As a matter of fact I’m ready now.” ... And _she_ had asked
Miller if it pleased him, and Miller had said, “How are you going to do
it?” ... Do what? That was what she had got to be clear about. What was
it that was to be done? Because the woman had answered, “This—in the
cup.” ... But what had she been holding out for them to see?... Meg had
a picture of a hand that would match the voice—slim and
delicate-fingered, with something lying on the palm, held out for the
Millers to see. “_This_ in the cup.” The Millers had seen what it was,
but Meg couldn’t. She could only see her own picture of the
delicate-fingered hand with something lying in the palm. And the
something was to be put into the cup with a crack in it, so that there
should be no mistake. The something was quite colourless. That was why
Meg couldn’t see it. It wouldn’t show in the cracked cup. The tea and
the milk would cover it and hide it, and it wouldn’t show at all.

The booming note of the gong came up from the hall below. It was the
same gong which had called them to many pleasant meals at Way’s End.
What was it calling her to now? She didn’t know, but she knew that she
must go and face it whatever it was. Just for a moment she wondered what
would happen if she were to stay here with her door locked. She could
plead a headache—sudden illness—say she was going to bed.

No, she couldn’t. She couldn’t wait up here and not know at what moment
footsteps would come—along the passage or up the stair—Miller’s
footsteps—his wife’s—the light footsteps she had heard come out of the
kitchen and go away—lightly—down the passage. She couldn’t bear that.
Besides, it wouldn’t help her. She mustn’t let herself be isolated. She
had never imagined that there would be a time when she would want to
cling to the Cannock, but that was what she had come to. She needn’t
drink out of the cracked cup. Miller couldn’t very well stop in the room
to see whether she drank her tea, and she needn’t drink it. And then she
must put pressure on the Cannock and make her understand that she had
just got to see Uncle Henry—not tomorrow, or the next day, or in the
vague future, but now, at once, within the next half hour. If she could
get to Uncle Henry she would be safe, and everything would be all right.
She had just got to get to Uncle Henry.




                                 XXIII


The blue room looked comfortable, with the curtains drawn and the
tea-table set out in front of a little crackling fire. Miss Cannock was
pouring out the tea as Meg came in. There was a muffin-dish keeping warm
by the hearth, and some stoney little buns with blackened currants
sticking out of them on a plate belonging to Uncle Henry’s mother’s best
tea-set. Meg wondered what she would have said to its being used every
day, and used for Mrs Miller’s nasty little buns.

Miss Cannock looked up with the bright smile which showed her gums.

“Ah—here you are! I’ve poured out your tea, because I could hear you
coming downstairs, and one wants it to cool a little—doesn’t one? Not
to get cold, but just to cool off the least thing—don’t you think so?
And you _don’t_ take sugar, do you? I am very forgetful about things
like that, I am afraid, but I always say it’s better to ask, because
once you’ve put it in you can’t take it out again, can you?”

Meg said, “No, you can’t,” and took her cup. She sat in the little round
chair she had always been so fond of and lifted the cup from the saucer
as if she were looking at the china. It was one of a set which she had
chosen herself—rather tall fluted cups with little bright bunches of
flowers on a white ground. The cup which she held in a stiff, steady
hand had a chip out of the gilded edge, and a long dark crack which ran
from the chip to the base of the handle.

“It’s pretty china. It’s a pity it’s cracked,” she said.

Miss Cannock sipped her tea.

“Servants are so careless. Not the Millers—they are really most
careful—but Mr Postlethwaite’s china was in a terrible state when they
took it over. Of course a man with his remarkable brain cannot be
expected to supervise a household, and without supervision—but you are
not drinking your tea, Mrs O’Hara.”

“It’s too hot,” said Meg. She put the cup on the edge of the table and
got up. “Miss Cannock, I really do want to see Uncle Henry. There’s some
business which I simply must discuss with him. I quite see that you
don’t like to take the responsibility, but I’ve got to see him, and I’ll
take care that you don’t get into trouble over it. He shan’t blame
anyone but me.”

Miss Cannock began to fuss and flutter. She was eating one of the little
buns, crumbling it nervously and picking out the currants, which she
arranged in a circle round her plate.

“Oh, Mrs O’Hara, I don’t think—”

“It’s no use,” said Meg—“I’ve got to see him. That’s what I came down
here for, and I can’t just go on like this day after day. He’ll be
months over this book, and my business won’t wait.”

“Oh _dear_!” said Miss Cannock. She pulled at her scarf and coughed in
an embarrassed, deprecating fashion. “Oh dear, Mrs O’Hara—I’m sure I
don’t know what to say. Of course I see your point, but Mr
Postlethwaite’s orders are so stringent—so exceedingly stringent—”

Meg picked up her cup and strolled across the room to the window. She
put back one of the curtains and stood there as if she were looking out,
with the cup in her other hand. If the window had been open, she could
have poured the tea away, but it was shut, and it was a heavy sash
window, not an easily opened casement. She said aloud “I must see him,”
and she lifted the cup to her lips, but she did not drink from it. There
was no strange smell. The tea smelled good, and she would have been very
glad of a hot drink. Her mouth was parched and dry. Her throat was dry
all the way down. There must be some way of getting rid of the tea. If
there had been a plant in the room it would have been quite easy, but
there wasn’t any plant.

There was a book-case on the same side as the door. She went over to it
and stood there as if she were looking at the books. She was behind Miss
Cannock’s back now, and from this position she spoke.

“All my old books are here. It’s funny to see them.” She lifted the cup
to her lips again. “I don’t like this tea very much. Do you? Perhaps
some sugar would improve it. Shall I try a lump?”

She had gone over to the book-case with the idea of taking out some of
the books as if she were going to look at them, and then pouring the tea
away into the gap. The books would hide it. It would trickle down at the
back of the shelves and dry up before it could do much harm. But as she
stood there, a much better plan came to her. The Cannock was always
pressing her to take sugar in her tea. Well, that was the way out—a
really beautiful natural way, and nothing messy about it. She had hated
the idea of wetting the books, and Uncle Henry would have had a fit if
he had ever found out. No, this was going to be a much, much better way.

She went back to the table, dropped two lumps of sugar into her cup,
stirred them well, and tasted the tea, or made believe to taste it. The
warmth and the wetness just touched her lips, and at the touch she felt
a shuddering revulsion. What was in it, and what would happen to her if
she were to open her closed lips and drink from the cup which had been
prepared for her—the cup with the crack in it?

With the shudder still in her mind, she said in a laughing, natural
voice.

“Oh! It’s made it worse—_much_ worse! I can’t think how anyone can take
sugar in their tea really! It’s completely repellent! There—I’ve wasted
a perfectly good cup of tea, and I shall be in Miller’s black books!
Can’t we pour it out of the window?”

“Oh dear!” said Miss Cannock. She dropped a bit of bun on the carpet and
stooped to pick it up again. “Oh dear—what a pity! I don’t like putting
people out, and Miller—he seems a little upset. I suppose you
couldn’t—”

Meg’s temper got the better of her. It set a little flare in either
cheek and took her to the hearth with a whisk of her skirts.

“My dear Miss Cannock, I’m not going to drink a perfectly foul cup of
tea to please Miller,” she said. And then she laughed and emptied the
cup into the fire. “There—he needn’t know. And now we’ll wash the sugar
out, and perhaps the next cup will be better.”

It was extraordinary how gay and confident she felt. She had outwitted
the Millers, and she had thought of a really good reason for washing out
the cup. She would have her tea, and then she would go straight to Uncle
Henry if she had to take Miss Cannock there by main force or pick her
pocket of the key to that idiotic bridge. Once they got down to brass
tacks, she would be able to coerce the Cannock all right. In her present
mood she felt abundantly sure of that.

“Oh dear!” said Miss Cannock again. She fussed with her scarf and
watched in timid dismay while Meg washed out the cup. “There is plenty
of tea left,” she said. “Oh, I hope you haven’t put the fire out. But of
course you shall have another cup, and no sugar this time, though I
prefer it myself. Now I wonder if I had better fill the teapot up the
least little bit.”

She did so, and managed to send her plate slipping over the table edge
on to the floor. The crumbs and the currants scattered, and Meg bent
down to rescue the plate. When she stood up again Miss Cannock was
pouring out her tea to an accompaniment of apology and explanation.

“So stupid of me, Mrs O’Hara—and so kind of you to trouble! I think my
scarf must have caught as I leaned forward, and the plate may have been
just a little too near the edge. I do hope it isn’t broken. I should be
so distressed if I had broken any of Mr Postlethwaite’s china. I am
usually most careful.” She put in the milk, and paused with her hand on
the sugar-tongs. “Oh dear, dear—I really can’t think what is the matter
with me this afternoon! I was just going to give you a lump of sugar. I
am afraid I must be getting absent-minded, and that would be a most
serious handicap in my profession.”

She looked so exactly as if she were going to cry that Meg subdued her
impatience and said all the reassuring things that she could think of.
The Cannock in floods of tears would be the absolute limit at this
juncture.

She took her tea and drank about half of it, standing up by the table.
And then and there as she was still swallowing it and it was grateful to
her parched tongue and throat, she knew that there was something in the
cup. She hadn’t outwitted the Millers after all. There was something in
the tea, and she had drank about half of it.

But—

But she had washed the cup—

But that meant—

She kept her face still and looked at Miss Cannock. She was nibbling at
her bun. She had a faintly reassured and timidly deprecating smile on
her foolish sallow face. It wasn’t possible—but there was no one else.
There was no one else who could have put—something—into the cup which
she had washed. The Cannock could, whilst Meg stooped down to pick up
the plate.

At that moment when she knew herself to be standing on the very edge of
disaster, standing there and overbalancing, the fear went out of her.
She came upon something which she did not know that she possessed—a
hard, stubborn vein of courage which meant to go on, and to fight, and
to go down fighting if it came to going down. There was no anger about
it. It was cool, and tough, and strong.

She turned quite naturally from the table and knelt down before the
fire. There was a black woolly hearth-rug there, and it had come to her
in a flash what she could do.

“Oh, Miss Cannock,” she said, “we’re wasting the muffins! Won’t you have
one?”

“I don’t think so.”

Was it her imagination, or was there a veil of smoke, a veil of strange
white mist, between her and the fire? Miss Cannock’s voice sounded a
long way off....

_Half_—she had only had half of the tea—and she must get rid of the
other half—they must think she had drunk it—she mustn’t faint—or go
to sleep—it would sink into the woolly hearth-rug, and no one would
guess she hadn’t drunk it—it might make a difference—it _might_—

She bit her lip hard on the inside. Then she lifted the cup to her lips.
Her hand felt heavy. She said,

“This is a good cup of tea—”

Her voice sounded strange in her own ears. She wondered how it sounded
to the woman behind her—she wondered about the woman behind her. The
Cannock was behind her. Could she see what she was doing? Yes, she could
see Meg’s arm lifted and the cup at her lips—but she wouldn’t be able
to see it when it got below the level of her waist....

She took the cup from her lips without drinking and lowered it. The mist
was thick between her and the fire. She wanted to shut her eyes and go
to sleep. She bit her lip again, but this time she could only just feel
it. With a most punishing effort, and with the very last of her
conscious control, she brought the cup down until it touched the rug.
Then she tilted it sideways.

The tea spilled, trickling between the black woolly curls, leaving no
stain. Meg remained on her knees for a moment, but she no longer knew
where she was or what was happening. Fear, anxiety, and effort had all
floated away from her into the mist. She did not hear Miss Cannock speak
her name. She did not hear her repeat it in a loud, insistent tone. The
mist blinded her eyes and stopped her ears. After a wavering moment she
sank down sideways across the tilted cup.

Miss Cannock got to her feet, looked down at her with composure, and
then crossed the room without hurry and rang the bell.




                                  XXIV


Meg did not know how long she was unconscious. If she had drunk that cup
of tea to the dregs as she had been meant to do, she would probably
never have waked again, for unconsciousness would have held her helpless
until such further steps had been taken as would have insured the
deepest sleep of all. But her flash of courage and that last effort had
saved her. The drug in the first cup of tea had been dissolved in water
and thoroughly stirred before she came into the room. If she had drunk
that cup, there would have been no awakening. But she had not drunk it.
Her trick with the lumps of sugar had given her the opportunity of
pouring it away and washing out the cup. And the drug in the second cup
of tea was in tabloid form. There was no time to dissolve it first, and
no opportunity of stirring it. Thus, since Meg did not take sugar, the
liquid had never been stirred at all. She drank about half of it,
standing up by the table, and she drank quickly because she was very
parched and thirsty, but what she drank contained comparatively little
of the drug, which was concentrated in the bottom of the cup. She had
seemed to be drinking it as she knelt before the fire, but she had
managed to tip it out upon the black woolly hearth-rug.

She came back to the sound of voices in the room and, more gradually, to
a sense of her own whereabouts. She wasn’t on the floor any more. That
came to her with a sense of surprise, because she remembered kneeling in
front of the fire and thinking that she must, must manage to spill the
tea. The tea—there was something to the tea.... She drifted again into
a blank state which was not quite sleep and not quite swoon. The voices
came and went, just out of reach.... And then all at once the blankness
was gone. She felt muzzy and languid, but her head was getting clearer.
She wasn’t on the floor, but on the couch. She looked through her
lashes, and was puzzled because the wall was so close on her right and
the high back of the couch so close on her left, and there was a light
in the room, but she couldn’t see it.

She shut her eyes again, and heard Miller say,

“What next?”

He was quite close to her, not a yard away, quite near her head. Hearing
him speak like that, so horribly near, did more to rouse her than
anything else could have done. Why of course, the wall was so close
because they had turned the couch round, and she was lying on it quite
flat with the back of it between her and the room, and that was why she
couldn’t see the light.

When Miller said, “What next?” a plaintive cockney voice broke in.

“I tell you I don’t like it. I said all along I didn’t, and I don’t see
any call to do it neither.”

The odd thrilling voice answered her with the touch of scorn which Meg
had heard in it before.

“Oh, you don’t, don’t you, Milly? Well then, of course there isn’t any,
what d’you call it, _call_ to do anything. Let’s all throw in our hands
and stop bothering.”

Milly sniffed.

“I dunno know what you mean.”

“Don’t you, Milly, my dear? Not very bright—are you? Perhaps you don’t
think it’s going to matter to you personally, but don’t you make any
mistake, if we’re for it, you’re for it. If we get ours, then, my dear,
you’ll get yours, and I hope you’ll like it.” There was a note or two of
musical laughter. Then the voice hardened. “You’d better get this
straight, Milly. Robin O’Hara had you marked down all right in that
damned packet of his—Milly Miller, alias Gertie Stevens, alias Crooked
Sue.”

“Ow—don’t!”

The voice went on inexorably.

“I took you out of the gutter, didn’t I? You’d better remember it,
because that’s where you’ll finish up if you live to come out of
prison.”

“Ow—you wouldn’t. _You wouldn’t!_”

“Me? I shouldn’t do anything. You’d do it yourself. Don’t be a fool,
Milly. They’ve got the proof of O’Hara’s death, and the minute this girl
knows about it we’re done. You can’t say I haven’t fended her off, and I
won’t say it hasn’t been quite an amusing game. I wish O’Hara could have
seen me playing ghost. It would have tickled him.” She laughed a little.
“It was a pity he had to go. I’d liked to have worked with him, but he
wouldn’t come across, and the very last thing he said when he knew the
game was up and he was for it, was to tell me just where we should all
find ourselves when his wife and the bank manager opened this precious
packet of his.”

Meg lay in the shadow quite stiff, quite straight, quite flat.

Robin—the packet—Robin.... Robin was dead. These people had killed
him. That woman who laughed had brought him to his death. Robin was
dead, and the woman had tried to make her think he was alive. The marked
newspaper—the letters set out on the hearth-rug—the leaf with the word
pricked out on it—the card laid out at midnight in the dark flat—she
could see the shining pasteboard now, and a dead man’s name on it. The
woman had done all these things to make her believe that Robin was alive
and to prevent her opening the packet. But Robin was dead. He had died
bravely, doing his duty. Yes, Robin was brave—he would do that. She
could think about him, brave and doing his duty. That took all the
bitterness away. She could think about him like that.

Then all at once the sound of the closing door roused her. She had been
drifting, and she mustn’t drift. The door had shut quite sharply, almost
with a bang. She wondered who had gone out of the room. And then she
didn’t have to wonder any more, because the woman said,

“What a damned fool Milly is! You’d better keep an eye on her.”

And Miller spoke from somewhere startlingly near at hand.

“That’s all right. And now what next? How long is that stuff good for?”

The stuff—that was the stuff they had put into her tea.... But she had
only drunk half. They didn’t know that. Or did they?

The woman was speaking again.

“Eight hours—ten—twelve—long enough anyhow. She had finished what was
in the cup before she went off.”

There was a pause. Then Miller said violently,

“Why don’t you get on and get it over? Put her in the water and have
done with it!”

Meg did not move, but she felt a cold inward shudder. They had drugged
her, and they were going to drown her. But if she wasn’t drugged, there
would still be a chance of escape. She could swim. There must be a
chance.

The woman laughed. The chance didn’t seem worth much when Meg heard that
laugh. She said with a cool whipping scorn in her voice,

“Have you got nerves aboard—like Milly?”

“No, I haven’t.”

“It sounds like it. Take a pull on yourself, my friend, and go on
remembering that I’m running the show. I’m working to a time-table and
I’m not taking any risks. She’ll be out of the way by midnight, but not
so very much before. The village can get to bed and go to sleep first.
That boy from the inn takes his girl into the churchyard most evenings.
There’s no accounting for tastes—is there? Now suppose—just suppose it
occurred to him to get over the wall. There’s just one place where he
could—I found it yesterday. There’s a tombstone jammed up against the
wall—well, you see? It’s only a thousandth chance, but I’m not risking
it.”

Miller said, “All right.” And then, grudgingly, “You’ve got a head!”

“Thank you, Bob!” The tone was a lightly mocking one.

“And then?” said Miller.

“Then Henderson runs me up to town, and we put her in the river just as
we did with O’Hara. There’ll be nothing to show that she was drowned
before she got there.”

Miller spoke again with a kind of grumbling anger.

“You keep everything mum to the last minute! What’s the idea? Are you
and Henderson going to light out and leave Milly and me to answer the
questions that are going to be asked? Because if that’s your game—”

Her laughter cut him short.

“My dear Bob, it isn’t. Don’t be so crass! Having disposed of
the—incriminating evidence, we come straight back. Mrs O’Hara is
scheduled to leave Ledlington by the eleven-fifty tomorrow. Henderson
will drive her to the train. We shall stop at the village post-office
and Henderson will go in and buy stamps. Everyone in the village will be
prepared to swear to Mrs O’Hara having left Ledstow. They will see her
luggage on the grid. They will see her hat and coat on me and she will
have a cold and be blowing her nose when Henderson goes in to get the
stamps. At Ledlington I shall buy a ticket for town and tip a porter to
put the luggage in the van. The train is always packed on a matinée day,
and no one will notice who gets out at the other end. Meanwhile I go
into the ladies’ room, remove her hat and coat, put on a good noticeable
scarlet beret, and walk out of the station and back to the car. I keep
out of sight on the floor with a rug over me coming through the village,
and there we are.”

“Well, I won’t say you’re not clever,” said Mr Miller with that grudging
note in his voice again.

Meg’s blood ran colder and colder as she listened. Not to be able to
move, not to be able to do anything, just to lie here and listen while
they made a plan to drown you and throw you into the river, not here but
somewhere far away so that _they_ would be quite safe. And then to hear
them plan just how they were going to pretend that you had gone up to
town by train. It was like being made to look on at your own execution.
She felt her courage failing, freezing—freezing to death. She wished
that she had drunk that cup to the dregs, because then she would be as
good as dead already, and she wouldn’t know the horrible cold touch of
the water, or the hands that would put her into it and hold her down
until she was drowned. Her whole body stiffened in a spasm of recoil.

And then she heard Miller say, “Mr Postlethwaite—” and at the sound of
Uncle Henry’s name she relaxed and listened, and began to have a little
hope again.

“They’ll come down and want to ask him questions when she’s missing, the
police will and that Coverdale. I suppose you’ve thought of that?”

“Oh, my dear Bob!”

“That’s all very well, but what about it?”

She laughed with real amusement.

“Mr Postlethwaite has an appointment with Professor Mühlendahl in
Munich. They have been corresponding about it for the last fortnight. He
leaves for the continent tomorrow afternoon.”

“And Milly and me? _What about us?_”

“Well, you’ll be perfectly safe here.”

“We’re not going to _be_ here,” said Miller hoarsely—“not for nothing
nor nobody we’re not! And when I say that I mean it. What—Milly and me
stay here and be badgered, and cross-examined, and dragged into an
inquest as like as not, and our pictures in the papers? No, thank you!
And what’s more, Milly’s not fit for it—she’d lose her head as like as
not and give the show away, if she’s pushed too far.”

“Then you’re all on holiday whilst Mr Postlethwaite’s abroad, and the
house is closed. It doesn’t matter. There’ll be no proof against anyone.
Mr Postlethwaite will fail to keep his appointment in Munich. I owe the
Paris police something, so I think he’ll disappear in Paris. I’d like to
score them off, and Mr Postlethwaite’s disappearance will be quite a
score. And now as I’m going to be up all night, I’m going to have some
sleep. Lock this door on the outside and come and have a look at her
every half hour. She hasn’t moved at all, has she?”

Meg heard light feet crossing the room. Someone leaned over the sofa
back and looked down on her. She ought to have kept her eyes quite shut
and the lashes closed, but she couldn’t do it. As she lay on her back,
straight and flat, she had only to lift the lids the merest fraction to
be able to look up through the veiling lashes at the face that was
looking down. Her courage had come back, because she had Uncle Henry to
fight for as well as herself. They were planning horrible things for him
as well as for her. But they weren’t dead yet. Oh no, they weren’t dead
yet. If her lids flickered, she would betray herself. Could she look,
and hold them steady? She _must_.

Someone looked down at her and laughed, an oddly ringing laugh. Meg
looked through her lashes and saw Miss Cannock’s bright blue dress, Miss
Cannock’s floating scarf, Miss Cannock’s fussy fringe, Miss Cannock’s
face.




                                  XXV


Meg lay in the dark, and was thankful for it. They had put out the
light, locked the door on her, and gone away. She was alone, and she
could relax, move her stiff limbs, and sit up if she wanted to. She
found that she didn’t want to—yet. Her head swam and she felt giddy.
But she mustn’t give way to that. She propped herself against the end of
the sofa and tried to think.

Uncle Henry was on the island, and she was here. She could get out of
the window, and she could swim over to the island, but that wouldn’t be
any good, because she wouldn’t be able to land when she got there. The
wall encircled it, high, blank, and unclimbable. No, the only way to the
island was by the covered bridge, and it was locked at both ends. It was
locked, and Miss Cannock had the keys. Was Uncle Henry a prisoner on the
island then? Yes, he was—he must be. Oh, he _was_. She ought to have
suspected something when he didn’t come out, and she never saw him.

Only two days ago she had been in Ledlington. She had actually rung Bill
up. She had talked to him. If she had suspected something then, she
could have said, “Oh, Bill, come down!” and he would have come. He
_would_ have come. She would have been safe. But she hadn’t suspected
anything, and now it was too late.

But how could she have suspected? It was so like Uncle Henry. Even at
Way’s End it had been the most awful business getting him to come to
meals when he was working. If he had had a place like the island where
he could get away from everyone and lock himself in, he might have
behaved in just the way he was supposed to be behaving there.

He was a prisoner. But since when? He had met her on the evening she
arrived, and she had walked up from the gates with him.

Had she?

Was it Uncle Henry who had met her?

She sat up trembling under the impact of this new idea, but with her
head clear and her thoughts racing.

Was it Uncle Henry who had met her? It was dusk, but she had
seen—_What_ had she actually seen? An ulster, a hat, and a limp. That
was what she had seen, and her mind had said _Uncle Henry_, and then, as
far as the question of identity went, it had stopped functioning. Bill
said the Professor had grown a beard, and she had just added the beard
to her preconceived idea of Uncle Henry and taken him for granted. But
she had spoken to him, and he had answered her. And anyone with the
least gift for acting could mimic Henry Postlethwaite. His voice, soft
and hesitating, the marked mannerisms of his speech, his way of
withdrawing into an impenetrable silence, all made him the easiest man
in the world to impersonate. He had hardly spoken at all on their walk
to the house. She had been hurt about it at the time, but now she was
sure that it was not Henry Postlethwaite who had walked beside her. She
remembered how he had stalked past her into the house and vanished. And
then—and then Miss Cannock had come—not at once—no, it was some time
after. The woman who could play Miss Cannock so perfectly, so
convincingly, without a single false note, was clever enough to play
another part—any other part.

Meg let her feet down on to the floor and stood up. It was no use trying
to get away yet, but the effect of the drug was wearing off. She would
wait until Miller had been to have a look at her, and then as soon as he
had gone again she would try and get away. She had no plan. The woman
who had played Miss Cannock had her plan all cut and dried and her
dreadful time-table set, but Meg hadn’t any plan.

Suddenly, irrelevantly, it came to her that Miss Cannock had tried to
kill her two days ago in Ledlington. She had tried to push her under the
tram. Meg hadn’t any doubt at all that she had tried to kill her, and
she hadn’t brought it off. And if she hadn’t brought it off then, why
should she bring it off now? This was a very heartening thought, and she
made the most of it.

She moved about the room a little to get the stiffness out of her limbs,
and then lay down on the couch again to wait until Miller came.
Presently the clock in the hall struck eight. She hadn’t known it was as
late as that, and she counted the stroked with surprise. She must have
been unconscious for much longer than she had thought, and that meant
less time to escape, less time before that horrible time-table came into
operation. She thought it must be more than half an hour since they had
gone away and left her. Miller was to come back in half an hour. If only
Miller would come and go away again. She began to feel the strain of
waiting for him to come. Suppose he didn’t come at the half hour.
Suppose he didn’t come at all until he came with Miss Cannock to “put
her in the water.” Was she to go on waiting for that? But if she didn’t
wait, if she got up and went to the window, then that would be the time
when he would be sure to come. She would be half way across the room in
the dark, or pushing back the stiff old-fashioned catch, or trying to
lift the heavy sash, and the door would open and the light come on, and
she would be caught. Her courage failed at the thought of it.
No—whatever happened, she must stay here and wait until Miller came.

The clock had struck the quarter before she heard footsteps in the hall,
but they were not slow or heavy enough to be Miller’s footsteps. They
came hurrying to the door and stayed there whilst a hand fumbled at the
key and at the door knob. Even after the door was open there was a
dragging pause before the light went on. Meg heard a woman catch her
breath, and realized with relief that it was Milly who had been sent to
look at her, and that she wasn’t liking the job. She came slowly and
reluctantly up to the sofa and peered down at Meg. Then she went back to
the door and shut it.

Meg kept her lids down and waited for what would happen next. The door
had shut, but the light was on. Had Milly forgotten it, or was she still
in the room? There was that catching breath again, and then Milly had
crossed the room with a run and was bending down over the sofa.

“Are you awake?” she said in a shaken voice not much above a whisper.
And then her hand came down on Meg’s shoulder and shook it. “You’d
better be. Do you hear? Come along—wake up if you’re ever going to.”

Meg had a moment of horrible indecision. Could she trust Milly? It might
be a trap—it was her life and Uncle Henry’s in the balance.... No, she
couldn’t. She made an indistinguishable groaning sound and let herself
go limp.

“If you won’t, you won’t,” said Milly. She let go of Meg, and made that
odd choking sound again, and ran out of the room, snapping out the light
as she went. Then Meg heard the key turn and the footsteps go away,
running, as if Milly was in haste to be gone from something which
frightened her.

Well, Milly was gone, and now a horrid doubt sprang up in Meg’s mind.
Had Milly come because she had been sent, or had she come on her own?
Had she come instead of Miller, or was Miller still impending? She
thought she would just have to take it that he had sent Milly instead of
coming himself. She wondered if Milly was his wife. She was a
frightfully bad cook, but she seemed to have some human feelings. Meg
felt a little sorry for her—poor Crooked Sue.

She made up her mind that she would county sixty and then open the
window. What she was going to do when she had it open, she did not know.
They would look for her. If she couldn’t find the place where she could
climb the wall—and what chance would there be in the dark?—she would
have to try and hide from them till daylight came, and with it the
slender, solitary hope of a passing car or of someone from the village.
It wasn’t really a hope at all. The house was at a dead end and no cars
passed it, and no one from the village would have any possible errand
that would bring them within hailing distance at that hour in the
morning. Well, it was no good thinking ahead. It was better to get out
of the room than to wait in it until they came to truss her up and drown
her. Anything would be better than that.

She felt her way across the room to the window and pushed back the
catch. The sash was most stubbornly heavy to raise, and it took all her
strength to lift it a couple of feet. She was still panting when she
heard a sound which came near to stopping her breath altogether. Someone
was coming across the hall. Miller was coming across the hall. And he
was coming here—now, at once.

If she hadn’t opened the window, she would just have had time to get
back on to the sofa, but the window would give her away. If she dropped
over the sill and ran for it, how fast could she run, and how far? Not
very far, not very fast. He would catch her before she was round the
corner of the house. Her heart jumped, and her head swam. She saw these
alternatives in a flash, like two pictures. They didn’t take any time at
all—she just saw them. And then, as the key turned in the lock, she
acted purely on instinct and without thinking at all. She had opened the
left-hand window, but she had not drawn the curtains back. She jerked
one now with all her might, and ran behind the curtains which screened
the other window.

The sound of the opening door was lost in the loud knocking of her
heart, but she saw the light shine blue through the stuff she had chosen
long ago—before she had married Robin. It wasn’t the long ago of time,
but the long ago of change. There was nothing left of the things that
had made her life then except chairs, and tables, and these lengths of
blue stuff which she had thought so pretty when she bought them. These
thoughts were in the shadows of her mind like the pattern on a dark
tapestry picked out by firelight, but against this background she was
sharply aware of Miller’s crossing the room. At the same moment he
discovered the empty couch and the open window. The startled exclamation
had hardly left his lips before he vaulted the sill and disappeared into
the darkness.

What should she do now? He had left the door open. Would she have time
to cross the hall and hide in one of the other rooms? Would they search
the house? She didn’t know the answer to any of these things. She only
knew that the instinct which had brought her here held her pressed into
the angle between wall and window unable to move and scarcely able to
breathe. He would come back. He wouldn’t try and look for her alone. He
would be bound to come back. She thought this when she began to think
again, and close on her thought there came the sound of running feet,
and Miller was scrambling back into the room. The drop was greater on
the outside. He made some noise. She could hear that he was out of
breath. And then he ran across the room and out of the door, leaving the
light on.

There was a horrible cold interval of waiting. He would have to go and
tell Miss Cannock. No, she wasn’t Miss Cannock, Miss Cannock was only a
part which she had played, but there was no other name to call her by.
Miller would have to tell her, and she would come. But would they search
the room? Or would they take it for granted that she was gone through
the open window?

Meg had just to wait, her head thrown back into the angle, pressed back
as far as it would go and straining, her hands on either side of her,
palm outwards, pressing back too, as if she would force the wall and
make it hide her. The moment was stretched intolerably by her fear—the
old fear of the creature who is trapped, and waits for the trapper.

And then they came, all three of them—Miller, Miss Cannock, Milly. They
came running, with a confusion of words—questions, answers, denials,
protests. And then, not a yard from Meg, Miss Cannock stopped, and when
she spoke the other two fell silent.

“She can’t have gone far if Milly had just been in. Now, Milly—you’re
sure she was there?”

“I take my dying oath.”

“Oh, we haven’t come to that yet. Milly, if you cry, I’ll slap you—I
swear I will! Now, Bob, how far did you go?”

“Only to the corner of the house. It was no good going on alone, and I
hadn’t my torch. She might have been a yard away and I wouldn’t have
seen her.”

“No—that’s right. Go down to the lodge and get Henderson and Johnny!
It’s all right, you know—she can’t get away. She’ll probably make for
the gate or try and hide in the wood. There isn’t any place where she
can get over the wall. There’s no need for anyone to get fussed. I’ll
just go round the outside of the house with my torch. Milly, you stay
here in case she doubles back! Now, Bob, off with you!”

They were gone. Their footsteps had died away. If only Milly had gone
too. But Milly was to stay, and in the time it would take to make a
circuit of the house Miss Cannock would be back, and then perhaps it
would occur to her to search the room.

It was now or never. The instinct which had forbidden her to move now
most insistently bade her go. Milly or no Milly, she must get out of
this. It wasn’t a refuge any longer, it was a trap. All at once she
could move again. She looked between the curtains and saw Milly
crouching on the sofa with her arms thrown out across the padded end and
her head down between them. She was choking with sobs. Her shoulders
heaved with them. Her body writhed.

Meg slipped off her shoes and took them in her left hand. She knew
exactly what she was going to do, and she knew that she could do it. She
knew it so surely that she wasn’t afraid any more. She passed between
the curtains and crossed the room in the most perfect silence, but even
if she had tramped to the door in nail-shod boots, poor Milly’s sobs
would have prevented any other sound from reaching her. She cried
because she would go to prison if she didn’t do what she was told—and
she would lose Bob—perhaps she had lost him already—and she didn’t
hold with murder—no, she didn’t—and it was a crool shame. Whatever she
did, it was going to be her fault, and as likely as not, she’d be hanged
for it, when it wasn’t none of her doing, and if it wasn’t for Bob she’d
have been picking pockets comfortable and not doing no harm to nobody.
She choked and gulped, and got out a sooty handkerchief which left black
smears across her face when she scrubbed her eyes with it.

Miss Cannock, swinging herself in over the window-sill with a noiseless
agility which went very oddly indeed with the fussy fringe, the
old-fashioned dress, the beaded shoes, switched off her torch and
surveyed her with sarcasm. She had removed the tinted glasses, and her
eyes behind the colourless lashes were bright, and pale, and cool. She
turned without speaking, drew down the sash, and latched it. Then with a
sudden decisive movement she went over to the other window and pulled
the curtains back.

Meg’s instinct had stood her in good stead.




                                  XXVI


Meg was half way across the hall on her stocking feet. The thing that
had told her to leave her hiding-place had brought her so far, but it
didn’t tell her what to do next. She went on to the foot of the stair by
her own momentum, and there stayed, bewildered by the necessity for
making a decision. She must hide—somewhere.... Where?... She didn’t
know....

And then, sharp upon her hesitation, there came to her through the open
door of the room from which she had fled the rattle and jangle of the
curtain rings as Miss Cannock flung them back. She stopped thinking and
ran up the stair as silently and swiftly as if she were moving in a
dream, and then, out of sight of the hall by the door of her own room,
she stopped, and thought began again.

Her own room was the first place that they would search if it came to
searching the house. And the last place? Miss Cannock’s room. What a
perfectly _horrible_ idea. She had a moment of sick physical recoil, and
then, insistently, pressingly, the thought was driven home. It _was_ the
last place where they would look for her, the very last. And she
might—yes, it was just possible she might have a chance of getting hold
of the key to the bridge. It was worth any risk if there was even the
slightest chance of that. But she wouldn’t be taking risks—she would be
avoiding them.

She passed her own door, keeping close against the wall, and so along
the gallery to the other side of the hall. Miss Cannock’s door faced
hers, with the width of the hall between them. The door was ajar, the
light burning, and the room just as it had been left when Miller came
running up with the news that Meg was away.

Meg went in and looked for a hiding-place. The curtains were drawn, but
she shuddered away from the thought of standing behind them with nothing
but a length of chintz between her and Miss Cannock. Of all the
topsy-turvy things that had happened this was the craziest, that her
bones should be like water at the thought of the Cannock. It was as if a
rabbit had suddenly become more sinister than a rattlesnake.

This passed in a flash. The curtains wouldn’t do. There was the big
old-fashioned wardrobe which had stood in the spare room at Way’s End.
She wouldn’t dare to hide inside it, because if the Cannock was leaving
here and going abroad, she would be turning out her clothes and packing
them. No, she couldn’t hide inside it, but if she could reach the top
she could lie there very safely hidden and let the hunt go by, as she
had heard it go a dozen times when they had played hide-and-seek at
Way’s End. There was a horned canopy, and the top was sunk a foot behind
it. No one had ever thought of looking there, and she had kept it as her
own special hiding-place. But she had to get up there. If she stood on
the chest of drawers she could manage, but it was a tall chest, and she
didn’t dare move a chair to reach it. She had to use the old trick, but
it brought her heart into her mouth.

You pulled out one of the drawers to make a step, and then from the top
of the chest you leaned over and shut it again, and you had to be most
awfully careful or the drawer squeaked. It was only the middle drawer
that was any good as a step, and unless you coaxed it ever so carefully
it made a noise like a skidding slate-pencil.

She got on to the chest of drawers and put her shoes out of sight on top
of the wardrobe. Then she had to shut the drawer below her and keep her
fingers steady against the impulse to jam it home anyhow and hide. And
just as she knelt there with her hair falling forward over her face and
the drawer going home by stiff, reluctant fractions of an inch, she
heard the sound of voices coming nearer.

And she didn’t know whether they were in the hall below, or on the
stair, or in the gallery not more than a yard or two away. They came
upon her ear with a terror which took away her power of judging
distance. Her heart thudded, and her head swam, but her fingers went on
pushing the drawer very carefully home. Then she stood up, got her knee
on the lowest part of the canopy, and climbed over into the space behind
it. She lay there, and heard the voices coming nearer.

Well, they could come now, because she had beaten them. The moment of
sick terror was over, and she was safe. Yes, but she wanted something
more than that. She wanted to be able to see. She must be able to watch
the Cannock, and be ready to take a chance for the key of the bridge.

The canopy came up in the middle into two carved walnut horns and then
fell away in an ornamental scrollwork. There was a very good look-out
place between the horns, and another at each corner, where two smaller
horns repeated the central pattern. She worked herself round until she
could use either the middle peep-hole or the one on the right-hand
corner without moving more than her head and neck. This would enable her
to see practically everything in the room.

And the first thing she saw was Miss Cannock coming in at the door. Meg
had never seen her before without her glasses, neither had she ever seen
her out of the part which she had been playing. She looked now with a
terrified interest, and what she saw was not Miss Cannock’s dress and
Miss Cannock’s hair, but the pale, cold fire of anger in those
unfamiliar eyes, and the air of arrogant, domineering power. She stood
with her hand on the door, the light shining full in her face for a
moment, and then spoke over her shoulder.

“You’ll go on till you find her—you and Henderson, and Johnny! She
can’t get away. But I’ve got to have her here before midnight. I can’t
have my time-table upset. And warn Henderson that there’s to be no rough
handling! Bruises are just what every meddlesome police surgeon’s on the
look-out for. That’s all—get on with it!”

She shut the door, walked across to the wardrobe, and flung it open.
Standing there, she was out of Meg’s sight, but the room was full of
her. The moment before it had been any room. Now it was this woman’s
room—the stage on which she walked, the scene set for her to dominate,
the place from which she would marshal her forces and control events.
How had it been possible for her to mask this will, this power, this
force, and play with effortless skill the part of an aimless, amiable
nonentity? She stepped back from the wardrobe now and came into sight
again, moving towards the dressing-table which was set between the
windows. She had something in either hand, and as she came into the
light above the looking-glass, Meg saw what it was—a wig—two wigs—a
wig in either hand, held very carefully and then set down, the one on
the right-hand side of the dressing-table and the other on the left.

Meg stared through the corner peep-hole, and knew that what she had
guessed about Uncle Henry had been certainly true, because the
right-hand wig with its tossed leonine mane of grey hair was Uncle
Henry’s hair and no one else’s. It was that wig, and a beard, and this
woman with an ulster, and a pretended limp, and perhaps special boots to
give her another inch or two of height, who had met her in the dusk and
walked beside her in abstracted silence to the house.

That sank in as she stared—right in, until she was so sure of it that
it seemed part of her, and she looked back at the Meg who hadn’t known
or guessed or suspected anything, with a kind of distant wonder, as if
she had been another person.

She looked at the other wigs, the one at the woman’s left hand, and
immediately her own scalp began to pringle, because she knew this hair
too. Oh yes, surely she knew it. It was a woman’s wig, and it wasn’t
just carelessly plopped down like the grey one, but perched on one of
those little wooden stands which people give you at Christmas, and which
you are supposed to use for your hats, only you generally don’t. This
one was enamelled pale blue and painted with blobs of green, and pink,
and orange. The wig sat on the top of it with its neat formal waves and
its rows of little curls at the back—waves and curls of pale
platinum-coloured hair, very fine and soft, and beautifully kept. As
surely as the grey wig was Uncle Henry’s hair, so surely was this the
hair of Miss Della Delorne.

Something in Meg revolted and said, “No, no, _no_!” The Cannock—Della
Delorne? Impossible! But it wasn’t like that. It wasn’t a case of the
Cannock being Della Delorne. It was this woman who could play the
Cannock, or Uncle Henry, or Della Delorne at will. Or any other part.
Close to her now when she believed she was alone, Meg found herself
convinced that what this woman willed to do she would do without fear or
mercy.

She watched with a kind of terrified eagerness, because the woman was
taking off her dress. No, not _her_ dress—the Cannock’s dress. She had
dropped the scarf a while ago. Now, with the dress and the wig, she had
shed the Cannock altogether. She had been doing something to her face as
she stood at the glass, and when she turned round a shudder of surprise
ran over Meg. She looked with all her eyes for the woman she had known,
and couldn’t find her. This was someone she had never seen before in her
life. Instead of greying hair with an old-fashioned knot behind and a
fuzzy fringe in front there was a smooth cropped head of a colour
between fair and brown, and instead of Miss Cannock’s sallow skin and
crooked lip there was a stranger’s face and a stranger’s features, and
they were covered with a glistening coat of grease!

The woman took a towel from the wash-stand now and began to wipe the
grease away. It left the skin smooth and pale, a clear even colour. Meg
stared in astonishment. The cheeks were a different shape from Miss
Cannock’s cheeks. The lip that had been crooked was straight and well
shaped. The skin was different. Everything was different. The eyes which
had been hidden behind tinted glasses now dominated the face with their
cold look of efficiency and power, and the bare neck and arms were the
neck and arms of a young woman, smooth and round and white. Meg had seen
them before, for they belonged to Della Delorne.

As the woman stood there rubbing off the last of the grease, Meg
wondered with a beating heart what part she was getting ready to play.
What was the next item in her programme? Meg’s evasion didn’t seem to be
troubling her in the least. With a calm certainty that escape from the
bounds of Ledstow Place was impossible she was continuing her
preparations as if nothing had happened.

When she had finished with her face, she pulled a trunk out from under
the bed and threw it open. It was empty. She bent over it, and,
amazingly, the bottom moved, coming away like a lifted tray and leaving
behind it a space about three inches deep. Into this the woman who was
no longer Miss Cannock began to pack a variety of small tubes and
bottles, some odd looking objects made of rubber, a cardboard box or
two, the wig which belonged to Della Delorne, and another wig which she
fetched from the wardrobe. This wig had dark hair arranged in loose
waves with a most attractive double row of curls across the back. Meg
wondered what rôle it belonged to, what new personality it would help to
substantiate. She had left Uncle Henry’s wig on the dressing-table. That
meant she was going to wear it now—presently, when Meg had been caught
and “put in the water.” It was Henry Postlethwaite who would drive up to
town with the poor drowned thing to be disposed of in the river. Perhaps
there would be two drowned things—perhaps the real Henry Postlethwaite
was to be the other. And then this woman who would be playing the part
of Henry Postlethwaite would just go quietly over to Paris and there
change parts again. Henry Postlethwaite would disappear and forever.
Della Delorne would disappear. The obscure Miss Cannock would vanish
into her own native obscurity. And an attractive young woman in that
very attractive dark wig would embark on another part in another play.

Meg looked at the woman as she went to and fro at her packing. She tried
to imagine a dark pencilled line of eyebrow, and black lashes to shade
those cold pale eyes, and a warm ivory complexion and scarlet lips. Who
would recognize her? The indeterminate features would lend themselves to
this or any other avatar. Meg wondered as she looked how many people had
seen her as she was seeing her now, stripped to her own natural self.

It came to Meg that after this she would never be allowed to live. To
know what she now knew _must_ be fatal, because it had become a choice
between this woman’s death and hers. And how without a single weapon
could she meet an antagonist versed in every art, every trick of her
criminal game, and rendered implacable by the knowledge that her life
was at stake?

Meg saw this with a clarity and a calmness that surprised herself.
Instead of despair she felt an obstinate rising courage. Then all at
once hope positively soared, because the woman took off the fine gold
chain which the Cannock had so appropriately worn about her neck and
laid it down on the dressing-table. And on the end of it, swinging and
dangling from her hand as she crossed to lay it down, there was a key,
and Meg guessed with a jumping heart that it was the key of the bridge.

If she could get it—if she could only get it. If the woman would only
go out of the room for a moment. Meg felt as if she could dare anything,
take any chance, to get the key, because it meant Uncle Henry’s life.
The bridge had a door at either end. If she could open those doors and
leave them locked behind her, surely she and Uncle Henry together could
put up some sort of a show.

But the woman gave no sign of leaving the room.




                                 XXVII


It must be getting on for nine o’clock. She hadn’t heard the clock
strike since she came upstairs. If you have lived with a clock for a
great many years, it is extraordinary how often you miss the strike,
especially if you are thinking of something else.

Meg was getting stiff, but she didn’t dare to move. The woman had
replaced the false bottom, and was filling the upper part of the trunk
with books and Uncle Henry’s clothes. When it was full she shut down the
lid and came over to the dressing-table. Meg could see her reflected in
the glass. She sat down and began to rub stuff into her face from a
little round china pot. It gave the skin a puckered, faded look. Then
she put on a pair of grey bushy eyebrows and the beard which was such a
good disguise for mouth and chin. Now she was doing things to her nose,
raising the bridge with stuff that looked rather like plasticine, and
then carefully, very carefully, going over it with something out of
another pot until it was impossible to detect any join. When at least
she pulled the wig on over her hair, Meg was so startled that she caught
her breath in an almost audible gasp. Even though she knew what she
knew, the likeness astounded her. Given the concomitants of dusk and a
total lack of suspicion, this copy of Henry Postlethwaite would have
deceived anyone as it had deceived her and Bill—for she didn’t believe
now that Bill had seen Uncle Henry either.

The woman passed out of sight on the other side of the wardrobe behind
Meg. After some moments she came back again. She had on a man’s drawers
and under vest. She came to the wardrobe and stood there. Meg couldn’t
see her, but she knew very well that she was taking down clothes and
putting them on—Uncle Henry’s clothes. When she came into sight again
she was fully dressed—dark trousers, waistcoat, and coat, with a white
shirt showing above the waistcoat, and an old-fashioned wing collar. She
had a black tie in her hand and she stood before the looking glass to
tie it. That was the strangest moment of all, because over her shoulder
Meg could see Henry Postlethwaite’s face looking back at her out of the
glass—looking back, but not seeing her—seeing only the room, the
furniture, the safe solitude in which one character could be put off and
another put on. And close on that there came the horrible stabbing
doubt—was this false presentment all that was left of Uncle Henry? Was
he dead? Had he been dead a long time? Was there anything real left at
all? The thought struck her with such a sense of grief and loss that her
courage drained away. Robin gone—Uncle Henry gone. Then why shouldn’t
Meg go too? Her whole body relaxed. She leaned her forehead against the
hard, cold wood of the canopy and let the waves of loneliness and misery
go over her.

And then, sharp and clear, it came to her that if she gave up now she
would never see Bill again. And that mattered terribly. Even if he had
stopped caring for her, even if he had written her a horrid icy letter,
it mattered. She had got to fight her way through because she had got to
see Bill again. Queer how the minute she began to think about Bill
strength and courage came pouring back. Of course Uncle Henry was alive.
He was a prisoner on the island—he must be—he was, and somehow she had
got to get to him.

The false Henry Postlethwaite had finished with his tie and was putting
on a pair of black laced shoes. They had, as Meg had suspected,
thickened soles and rather higher heels than men usually wear. They must
be padded inside, for the woman had small and pretty feet. Her hands too
could never pass for Uncle Henry’s hands—she would have to wear gloves.
She took a pair out of the left-hand top drawer of the chest of drawers
and tossed it carelessly on to the pillow of the bed. Then she took out
of the wardrobe Henry Postlethwaite’s ulster and Henry Postlethwaite’s
broad-brimmed hat.

Then she went out of the room, leaving the door open behind her and
snapping off the light.

Meg shivered with excitement and strained her ears to listen. Where had
she gone to, and how long would she be? She listened with all her might.
Could she hear a footstep on the stairs with the width of the hall
between them? Those thickened shoes would not tread so very lightly.
They were a man’s shoes, and heavier by the thickening than the ordinary
shoe of that type. She thought that she would hear them on the stairs.

She listened, straining, because unless she did hear them she would not
dare to move. And then, making all her straining needless, she heard
them, carelessly loud, going down into the hall and across it to the
front door. She didn’t wait for anything more. Here was her chance, and
she had only to take it. The key lay on the dressing-table for the
taking, and she had only to put out her hand to it.

Getting down was easier than getting up had been. She was on the floor,
she had the key cold in her palm, and she was out of the door almost
before the impulse which brought her there had shaped itself into a
conscious plan. Thought and action were so co-ordinated as to seem one.

But out in the gallery she had to stop, to listen, and to think again.
She did not know this side of the house. On the opposite side a passage
turned out of the gallery and ran past the bathroom and an empty bedroom
to a back stair. On this side a similar passage turned off on her left.
Was there a back stair over here? If there was, she had a safe path
before her, because it was bound to come out quite close to the door
which entered the bridge. If there wasn’t a stair, she was losing time
which she simply couldn’t afford to lose, and she would have to take the
frightful risk of going down the main stair and crossing the hall. Her
recoil from this sent her running down the dark passage, and thankful
for the darkness.

Yet the darkness nearly betrayed her. There _was_ a stair, but on this
side it had no door at the stair head, and her foot was over the edge
and her balance lost before she could save herself. A desperate snatch
at the banisters served to break her fall and prevent it from being
headlong, but she went sliding and bumping down until she reached the
half-landing, where she picked herself up shaken, breathless, and
empty-handed.

The key was gone. It must have dropped when she caught at the banisters.
She had to search for it in the dark, her heart banging and her spine
creeping, whilst every sense strained to catch some sound or sign of
danger. She found it after what felt like a moment so endlessly
prolonged as to have escaped out of time altogether into some horrible
eternity. It was lying on the very edge of the landing, and when she had
picked it up she had still to reach the bottom of the stair and find the
door of the bridge.

The stair came into a passage, and the passage ran to left and right.
The left-hand way led back into the hall, and a faint light made it
visible, the walls and floor all dark and shadowy like things seen under
water. To the right the twilight deepened into a black gloom. There was
no window and no point of light. She felt her way along it to the end,
and found three doors, one to the right, one to the left, and one
straight in front of her. It would be the left-hand door that led to the
bridge.

She felt for the handle and turned it, but the door wouldn’t move. It
was locked, and that meant that it was the bridge door for certain. She
fitted the key into the lock, and then hesitated. There was an illusion
of safety about this dark place, and she didn’t know what might be
waiting for her on the other side of the locked door. There wasn’t any
safety anywhere, but in this dead end she could believe for a moment
that she was safe. Safe—when someone might come along the passage from
the hall at any moment. She turned her head over her shoulder at the
thought, and saw it take shape before her horrified eyes. Someone was
coming along the passage from the hall.

She didn’t wait to see who it was. The key turned, the door opened, and
she was over the threshold, dragging the key from the lock, shutting the
door with a desperate haste and locking it again with shaking fingers.
She felt for a bolt, up as high as she could reach and down again,
sliding her fingers over the smoothly painted wood. There were two
bolts, one at the top and one at the bottom. She slid them home and went
on shaking, but with triumph now, because she had done it—she had got
away. And now she had only to find Uncle Henry.

She turned her back on the door and set out across the bridge. There
were six or seven steps leading to a higher level, and then a straight
way over to the island. On this higher level it was not quite dark. The
bridge had glazed sides, and something which was not light and yet
served to mitigate the darkness came through the glass. It is never
really quite dark out of doors, and the darkness of the bridge was more
like out-of-door darkness than the pitchy black of an unlighted room.

Meg went on steadily but not too fast, because there would probably be
more steps at the other end. She was about half way, when she heard the
door behind her tried and shaken. She wished them joy of breaking it
down. It was strong, and the bolts were heavy, and long before they gave
she would have the second door behind her.

She came to the steps going down to the island level, and found the door
at the foot, and found it fast. Well, she had expected that, and she had
the key. She felt for the lock and pushed it in. That was when the first
cold misgiving touched her. The key didn’t slide in. She had to push it,
she had to push it hard. And when she had got it in, it stuck and
wouldn’t move. It would turn neither to the right nor to the left, and
when she tried to pull it out of the lock it jammed. With despairing
violence she shook the handle and banged upon the panels. But the only
answer came from behind her. They were battering at the door through
which she had come, and all at once it came to her that the bolts were
poor comfort, because any door is only as strong as its hinges.

She made one last effort to withdraw the key and failed. There must be a
different key to this door, though there was only one on the chain she
had taken from the Cannock’s table. Perhaps they kept the other key in
the passage. It might be hanging on a nail, or hidden somewhere. But
even if she found it she couldn’t use it now. The door behind her might
give way at any moment. They were using something heavy as a ram. That
meant Henderson and Miller. And the woman must be there, because they
wouldn’t break down the door without her orders.

Meg’s plan came to her in the flash which showed her the three of them
behind the breaking door. She ran back up the steps and, taking off her
right-hand shoe, waited for the next assault upon the door, and then
broke one of the large glass panes in the side of the bridge. Then she
got out of her tweed skirt and, wrapping it thickly round her hand and
arm, she pushed the splinters outwards. She heard them fall into the
lake. They were gone, and she must go their way if she didn’t want to be
trapped, because there wasn’t any other way for her to take. Another
blow and the door would be down.

With the noise of a rending crash in her ears she climbed through the
broken window and let herself drop into the lake.




                                 XXVIII


It was just short of nine o’clock when Bill Coverdale stopped his car at
the gates of Ledstow Place. He had driven furiously, he had made record
time, he had been a prey to the most horrible fears and imaginings, and
now a cold reaction came upon him and he wondered what he was going to
say and how he was going to explain his sudden arrival—on the top too
of Meg’s telegram telling him not to come, telling him she wanted to be
left alone. He began to feel that he was making a most obvious and
complete fool of himself. And then something in him stiffened up,
because if it came to even one chance in a thousand, he was prepared to
make a fool of himself and take the consequences rather than let Meg run
the risk of that one chance.

He sounded his horn and waited for someone to come, but no one came. He
got out of the car and tried the gates, but they were most securely
locked. The lodge was just a black blur, formless and lightless. He
stood there listening, and felt an oppressive silence gather about him
like a fog. The horrible thought came to him that the place was
empty—lights out, fires dead, and all human life withdrawn, leaving
lodge and house, park and lake, to the dead stillness which seemed to
brood there.

He shook himself angrily and went back to the car for a torch. He had
got to get somewhere where he could see the house and dispose of the
suggestion that it was deserted, and if he couldn’t get in by the gates
he was going to get in some other way. That locked gate had made him
angry when he came down before, and it made him angrier now. Ridiculous
medieval tomfoolery, and the sooner someone told the Professor so the
better! If the old man wasn’t balmy already, he soon would be, living
like this.

He left the car where it was and prospected. The lane came to an end at
the gates. There was a ditch on each side of it with, on the left, a
great scrambly hedge enclosing a wood, and on the right, the churchyard
wall about five feet high. The wood was no good, obviously. There was no
view to be got from it, for he remembered that it continued on the other
side of the wall right up to the edge of the lake, so that it would be
impossible to see the house. No, he would have to get into the
churchyard and see what he could see from there.

He went first to the car, chose a heavy spanner from among the tools,
and put it in his pocket. He could not have explained why he did this,
but it gave him the feeling of having done the right thing. Then he
crossed the ditch and got over the wall. It was built very roughly of
local stone, so that it was easy enough to climb, but no sooner had he
followed it to the point where it became the boundary wall of Ledstow
Place than it took on an extra three feet in height and became a newish
brick wall, very well built and quite unclimbable. If he had hopes of
the angle where it turned towards the gate and the extra height began,
they were immediately dashed, because this was defended by a
_chevaux-de-frise_ of the most villainous double-bladed spikes. There
was nothing for it but to go on following the wall and hope for a bit of
luck.

It was about twenty yards farther on that he nearly trod on William and
William’s girl who, oblivious of cold, damp, and Mr Coverdale’s torch,
sat spell-bound side by side on a low table tomb with their heads on one
another’s shoulders and their arms doubly entertwined. They had not
spoken a single word for three quarters of an hour, and they did not
speak now. The light of Bill’s torch flickered over them, Bill’s knee
took William in the small of the back, and Bill’s voice said, “I beg
your pardon.”

There was one of those pauses. Then Miss Ellen Cade, who had been nicely
brought up by the aunt who kept the post-office and village shop, lifted
her head about an inch from William’s shoulder and said, “Granted.”

It was at this point that William began to feel annoyed. After all, it
was he who had been barged into, not Ellen, and it wasn’t her place to
go saying “Granted” like that. He disentangled himself, got to his feet,
and demanded in irritated accents, “What are you getting at?” The light
of the torch shone on his very young face, his freckles, and the
upstanding mat of red hair.

Then Bill Coverdale said with half a laugh, “What I want to do is to get
over the wall. I’ve got to get up to the house, and I can’t make anyone
hear at the lodge. I expect you know this place like the back of your
hand. Is there anywhere I can get over? And I’m most awfully sorry I
tumbled over you like that, so if five bob—”

Five bob changed hands. A faint sheepish grin appeared on William’s
face. Ellen giggled. Bill lowered the torch and came briskly to
business.

“Well, what about it? How do I get over this wall?”

William, fingering two half-crowns in his trouser pocket, found words.

“How’m I to know you ain’t up to something?”

Ellen giggled again.

“I am up to something,” said Bill. “I want to get over the wall. I keep
telling you so.”

William uttered again, conscious of Ellen, conscious that here might be
the chance of a lifetime to foil a criminal and get his name into the
papers.

“How do I know you’re not a burglar?”

“You don’t,” said Bill. “But I’m not. Let’s get on with this wall
business—I’m in a hurry. What about the stone you were sitting on? Is
that any good for a leg up?”

“There’s a better one farther along, sir.” Ellen Cade had been out of
the conversation long enough. She didn’t care about being out of things.
She hoped that the torch would be turned upon her, because she’d done
her hair a new way, and Aunt could say what she liked, it suited her.
She slipped her hand inside William’s arm and pinched it. “Come on,
William, _do_! Right up by Mary and Jane Posset—that’s the place.”

They walked along by the wall, the three of them, on an edge of rough
grass broken here and there by a green mound or a grey tilted stone,
until Ellen said brightly,

“Here we are! Aunt’s great-great-great aunts, Mary and Jane they were,
and we’ve always said, William and me, it’d be as easy as easy to get
over the wall from them.”

Bill brought his torch to bear upon a headstone set no more than a foot
away from the new red brick. It was about three feet high, and if you
stood on it, the top of the wall would be well within reach. William,
warming to the adventure, lent a steadying shoulder, and without more
ado Bill got to the top of the wall and dropped from it into the grounds
of Ledstow Place. A last faint giggle from Ellen followed him.

He had the torch in his pocket, but he didn’t want to put it on. He had
no wish to encounter the shambling Johnny, or a gardener—there must be
a gardener. They would not be likely to be about at this hour, but it
was never safe to count on people being where they were likely to be,
because just when it was most inconvenient they were sure to be
somewhere else.

He stood still to take stock of his surroundings. The footsteps of
William and Ellen retreated. They were returning to their meditations
among the tombs. It was very dark. A clump of trees and bushes screened
the place where he had come over the wall, though none of them
approached it to within a dozen feet. He skirted the clump, and came out
upon a dim open stretch of grass, rough under foot and sloping gradually
upwards. Bill followed the rise, because what he had to do was to find a
point from which he could see the house. If there were lights in it, all
was well—he just went boldly up to the front door, saw the Professor,
saw Meg, pitched some kind of tale, and took Meg away with him. He
hadn’t really begun to bother about what he was going to say. He rather
thought of dragging Garratt into it. Yes, that would do—Garratt, and a
solicitor, and some frightfully urgent legal business which made it
absolutely necessary that Meg should be on the spot bright and early in
the morning. How bright and early were solicitors? He grinned a sardonic
grin. It didn’t matter—it would do for a tale. On the other hand, if
the house was dark—His heart contracted, because that would mean—what
would it mean? Something too bad to think about. And he would have
landed himself behind an eight-foot wall with no friendly tomb-stone on
this side of it.

He passed another clump of trees, and drew a long breath of relief. The
house had come into view, a solid black cube against the soft smudged
darkness of the park and the glimmer of the lake, with the fanlight over
the hall door shining as yellow as a harvest moon. His forehead was
suddenly wet. He got out his handkerchief and wiped it. He hadn’t known
how horribly afraid he was until he saw the light.

He had reached the top of the slope. He walked down it now at a good
brisk pace, not caring any longer whether he was seen or heard. As he
walked, he made careful plans. He would drive Meg back to town. There
wouldn’t be any need to hurry. And then tomorrow he would take her to
see the flat. They would stand together at the window from which you
could see the river. He didn’t map it out any farther than that, but he
felt very hopeful.

He stepped briskly off the grass on to the gravel in front of the house,
and someone came running down the front steps and met him half way
across the sweep. The front door stood open. He thought it was the
man-servant who was running to meet him, flurried and out of breath. He
stood still and let the man come to him, because an instant warning bell
had started ringing in his mind.

Mr Miller came up in a fine taking. He spluttered out the name of
Henderson, which was quite unknown to Bill.

“Where’ve you been, you lazy skulking dog? She’s got away, blast her!
And you’re to go down to the gate and wait in the bushes in case she
comes that way—and get a move on, or the boss’ll want to know the
reason why!” He turned to run back, not into the house this time, but
round the corner. His feet left the gravel and were heard no more.

The front door stood open. The fanlight shone golden against the
blackness of the house—the fanlight, and the sharp rectangle between
the door-posts. Not a window on this side was lighted.

He heard someone shout in the distance.

He began to run down the drive towards the gate.




                                  XXIX


Very odd doings. Bill had submitted to being Henderson and a dirty
skulking dog who was at the orders of some unknown boss because when the
man said “She’s got away,” he knew with a certainty as complete as it
was irrational that this _she_ was Meg. It might have been a dog, a cat,
or a parrot, but he was quite sure it wasn’t. He was quite sure it was
Meg, in which case he was Henderson till further orders. He wondered
whether he ought to have laid the other fellow out. It was a bit close
to the house, and after all he didn’t _know_ anything. A bit awkward if
he had brained the Professor’s butler and then found that there was some
mistake.

He stopped running at the turn before the lodge, and went softly until
he came to the gates, where he left the drive and discovered, as Meg had
done, that there was a path between the shrubbery and the wall. He
turned off to the left and stood there a couple of yards in, waiting,
and straining eyes and ears against the silent darkness. He could see
nothing except the black mass of the shrubbery on his right, the black
height of the wall on his left, and the skyless dark between them, and
part of the drive, much darker than the sky, but nothing like so black
as the bushes and the wall. He could not distinguish the lodge, though
it should have been within his view. It was there though he couldn’t see
it. A hundred other things might be there which he could not see.

He couldn’t hear anything either, except all those natural sounds of the
night which at first seem veiled in silence, but gradually emerge from
it until there is no silence left. A branch creaked in a stirring of the
air which did not reach him. Something very small moved a dry leaf quite
close to his foot. An acorn fell, striking him on the head and pattering
down like a solitary hailstone.

How long was he going to wait, and what was he waiting for? Meg.

But where was she? He might wait here whilst she was in some desperate
strait, but if he went looking for her in this wide, dark place, how
easy to miss her, how impossible to do anything else, since she would be
doing all she knew not to be found. But if she had been found
already—found and taken back to the house—would they come and tell
Henderson, whoever Henderson might be? It seemed reasonable to suppose
that they would, unless the real Henderson had happened along—which was
of course quite on the cards....

Well, there was nothing for it but to wait. He remembered the wood on
the other side of the drive back of the lodge. If Meg was hiding, that
would be the place to make for. He wondered if he dared prospect a
little, because of course she might come down to the gates in the hope
of finding them open or of being able to get the key from the lodge....
Now that was a very bright idea. It was the world to a halfpenny that
the key was hanging somewhere in that damned invisible lodge.

He crossed the drive, felt his way round to the back door, and knocked
upon it. There was no answering sound from within.

Bill began to feel a most intense dislike for this place. It ought to
have had a light, and smoke coming out of the chimney, and someone
hopping out briskly to open those infernal gates. Hang it all, that was
what a lodge was for, a kind of concrete brick and mortar welcome, but
all you could get out of this one was a dark, deserted feel like a
devastated area plus an amazingly powerful smell of cabbage-stalks.

He knocked again. Nobody came.

He found a window, broke it with as little noise as possible, and
climbed in across an unsavoury sink. It reeked of things that a decent
sink doesn’t reek of. He felt his way to an open door, and thence into
the very narrow passage. When he had located the back door, he decided
that he must risk using his torch for a moment. The key which opened the
gate would in all probability be hanging from a nail in this passage—at
least in any ordinary lodge it would. Reflecting gloomily that this was
about as far from being an ordinary lodge as you could get, he took out
the torch, switched it on, and sent the beam travelling over the dirty
walls. No sign of a nail, no sign of a key. Paper yellow with damp and
curded with dirt hung loose from the decaying plaster beneath. Here and
there it had peeled, and hung in tatters. He reflected that a nail would
have nothing to take hold of, and that he would have to look elsewhere
for the key. The kitchen was the next most likely place, and he would
just have to risk someone’s catching the glint of his light at the
window through which he had climbed.

The room seemed to be kitchen and scullery in one. The torch showed it
larger than he had supposed, with the sink up under the window and the
range against the outer wall—a stupid waste of chimney heat. He turned
the torch here and there, screening it behind his coat. The fires was
out, or very low. The floor was greasy, and black with trampled coal. He
got as far from the sink as possible, and found the opposite side of the
room entirely taken up by a large kitchen dresser on which in
indescribable confusion were piled dirty plates, and plates which he
supposed the old woman considered clean, a much hacked leg of mutton,
three cooked onions and a cold potato in a cracked vegetable dish, a jug
half full of beer, part of a rabbit pie gone very high indeed, the heel
of a loaf, and a pair of clod-hopping boots, presumably Johnny’s. What a
place! And where in all this welter was the key he was looking for? If
it wasn’t in the passage, it ought to be hanging from a hook on the
dresser, but it wasn’t. Bill had got past expecting anything in this
house to be in its proper place.

He sent the beam across the chimney breast. People kept things on the
ledge above the range. There was a box of matches there, and about half
an inch of sooty dust. Where in the name of common sense did the
disgusting old woman keep that key? It must be somewhere, unless she’d
got it on her. And with that it came to him for the first time to wonder
where she was.

It didn’t take him more than a split second to get the answer. She was
out looking for Meg. She, and Johnny, and the fellow who had run out of
the house at him, and every other man jack about this infernal
place—they were all out hunting for Meg. And he, as Henderson, was
supposed to be on guard at the gate. That meant that they would beat the
grounds and try and drive her this way. There was a lot of cover in the
wood, but one or two people going through it with torches might hope to
scare an already frightened girl and get her on the run. He felt a
furious impatience to be there, and to know what was happening—to find
Meg. But the key—if it was to be found, he must find it. Find the key,
find Meg, and he had only to walk out of the gates with her and start
the car.

The key might be anywhere. It might be in the old woman’s pocket. It
might be in Henderson’s pocket, or Johnny’s pocket, or anybody’s
pocket....

He stared about him, at his wits’ end, flicking the light to and fro.
The kitchen table—no cloth—more dirty plates—a chair thrown
down—another chair, with a soiled apron trailing over the seat, the
pocket gaping, half ripped off.

Something clicked in Bill’s mind. He picked the dirty rag up and shook
it. There were two pockets, and only one of them was torn. Out of the
other there cascaded and tumbled an incredibly filthy pack of cards,
about half a packet of liquorice drops—and the key.

Bill’s heart gave a bound of triumph as he picked it up. It was the key
all right. There was no doubt about that. A most massive piece of
ironmongery which would certainly not fit any lock in the lodge. He
pocketed it, switched off his torch, and let himself out by the back
door.

The first thing he did after that was to unlock the gates. If he found
Meg—no, _when_ he found Meg—they might have to run for it, and it
might be a near thing getting away. It would be a comfortable thought to
feel that the gate was open. When he had opened it, he stood there
frowning in the dark. It seemed to him that the key was now a useless
white elephant. The only use it could be put to was to lock the gates
again, and Bill had an extremely strong and definite conviction that
those gates were better open.

After some thought he went out to his car and put the key into the back
of the cubby hole by the steering-wheel. If it was wanted, it could be
got at here—by him. And if it wasn’t wanted, it would be quite safe.

He went back into the grounds of Ledstow Place.




                                  XXX


The splash of Meg’s fall was lost in the crash of the falling door. She
went down into the waters of the lake and felt them close over her head.
She had the illusion that it was these waters which were rushing
upwards, and not she who was sinking through them. There was an ice-cold
pressure at her eyes, her ears, her throat. The terror which had
possessed her when she jumped from the bridge was frozen about her
heart, which seemed to have stopped beating. The short time that it took
her to sink and rise again appeared to her to be endlessly and
dreadfully prolonged. Then, with a curious suddenness which was like the
transition from a nightmare into waking consciousness, she found that
her head was above water and that she was swimming. A good swimmer does
certain things intuitively and without conscious volition. Meg had dived
and swum since she was five years old, and even in an extremity of fear
it was impossible for her to take the water awkwardly or to choke
herself by getting it into her nose and throat. She had begun to strike
out as she came up, from pure instinct.

She drew a long breath, and felt the nightmare fade. Her heart was
beating quite normally again. All that horrible feeling of fear was
gone. Her mind was calm and empty, its only conscious thought a faint
surprise that the lake should be so deep. She blinked the water from her
eyes and swam with long, steady strokes. She began to consider where she
should land. The bank was close on her left. Should she make for it, or
would it be better to strike right across the lake and get into the
wood? She could hear voices behind her now on the bridge. If someone
jumped in after her, she would do better to land and trust to getting
away on her feet. Perhaps she would do better to land anyhow. She could
reach the wood much more quickly if she ran, and she would get a good
start before they came after her, because they would have to come back
across the bridge and down through the house. But it would have to be
now, at once.

A couple of strokes took her into her depth. She came up dripping on to
mud and stones, and then with a scramble to the grass which bordered the
drive. She looked over her shoulder and saw a light on the bridge and
the beam of a torch darting to and fro across the dark water. She hadn’t
come out a moment too soon, and she hadn’t a moment to waste. She picked
up her wet feet and ran for it, keeping to the grass and wondering how
much of a start she was going to get.

She got quite a good one, thanks to the recriminations which had been
going on upon the bridge, and by the time the pursuit had been organized
and Miller despatched to the lodge on a bicycle to detail the Hendersons
for their share in it Meg had reached the first of the trees. She saw
the bicycle lamp without seeing the bicycle or its rider, and lay flat
on the grass with her face hidden until it had gone by her. Then she got
up and went on again, slowly now, because there were blackberry bushes
and a tangle of willow and alder and hazel growing upon rough ground
which dipped suddenly into patches of bog, and deep swampy holes.

She had been lucky so far, luckier indeed than she knew, because Miller,
craning out of the window she had broken, had cut his hand on a splinter
of glass and let the electric torch he was holding drop, as she herself
had dropped, into the lake, only unlike her it didn’t come up again. He
had to go and find another torch, with the result that Meg got her
start.

Well, she had got it, and she had got so far. But where had she got to?
A swamp in which her wet feet squelched, making noise enough to give her
away the minute the pursuit drew near. Even on the grass, drenched
stockings and drenched shoes had combined to produce the most horrible
squeaking, squishing sound as she ran. For all she knew, the whole wood
might be a bog—there might be acres of it—she had never explored in
this direction. There was only one thing to be done, and she did it. The
shoes and stockings must go.

She stood on each leg in turn, and left the horrid wet things to lie
where they fell. It was nice to be rid of them, but she hated the squdgy
feel of the slime between her toes. She could move a great deal more
quietly now, and that was something. But where was she moving to? She
had no answer to that. There was a bog, and an inky blackness in which
she had to feel her way. Her body had begun to shake with cold, her
garments dripped and clung to her like bandages. And she had no plan,
and no objective. She couldn’t even say, “I must go on, or they’ll get
me,” because they were just as likely to get her if she did go on. At
any moment she might hear Miller, or Henderson, or Johnny come crashing
through the undergrowth. At any moment the ray of a torch might cut the
darkness like a stab. Or—most horrid thought—she might at any moment,
feeling before her in this black gloom, touch one of them unawares. An
ice-cold finger seemed to stroke her spine at the thought of it. She
tried to push the thought away. She _must_ have a plan, or the fear
which makes men run screaming would catch her and send her stumbling and
crying into the bog, into the lake, into the very arms of her enemies.

She began to make her plan, standing still and listening for a footstep
or a voice. She must get to the wall—that was the only possible thing
to do. The wood ran up to the wall and on beyond it again. She must hope
for a bush that would bear her weight, if for no more than a moment, in
a running scramble to reach the top of the wall, or for some tree with a
limb extending far enough to give some chance of a jump. It would be a
desperate, dangerous chance, but there wasn’t any chance in the world
that Meg wouldn’t have taken now. If they caught her they would put her
in the water. The words jingled and rhymed in her head. They would put
her in the water—perhaps here—in the dark—in one of these bog-holes.
She would drown in the mud and the slime. And she wouldn’t ever see Bill
again. Oh no—_no_—not that—_please_ not that! She would take any
chance in the world rather than die like that in the dark. And just as
her thought touched panic, she heard something move, a little to her
left. The sound came to her through the fluttered beating of her
heart—a splash, a muffled plop. It was the sound which her own shoes
had made before she discarded them, and it pricked her with terror. It
was a toss-up whether she ran or froze, but that wild beating of her
heart settled it. She couldn’t run, because she couldn’t get her breath,
and while she stood motionless, one hand to her throat, the other
clutching an alder bough, she heard the sound again, farther off—and
then again, farther still.

The next thing she knew, her teeth had begun to chatter so violently
that she had to thrust the knuckle of her forefinger between them to
prevent their making a noise like castanets, and oddly, vividly there
rose before her the blue room in the days when it was her own room at
Way’s End, and she knitting the very first jumper she had ever made, and
Bill reading “Allan Quartermaine” aloud—the fight at the kraal, and
Alphonse whose teeth kept chattering, and the bit of oily rag that Allan
gave him to bite on so that he wouldn’t be heard and give the ambush
away. She had even a sensation of an oily taste in her mouth, just as
she had had it when Bill was reading. And then and there, looking back
like that and seeing Bill, it came to her that she loved him with all
her heart—just like that—all mixed up with Allan Quartermaine, and her
first jumper, and Alphonse, and the oily rag. It wasn’t romantic and it
was the most romantic thing in the world. It was everyday with the light
that never was on sea or land shining through—bursting through. It was
the End of the Rainbow, and the Crock of Gold, and the Golden Apple, and
the Story without an End. And here she was, in a black bog, drenched and
muddy, trying to stop her teeth from chattering lest the sound should
betray her to a particularly unpleasant death. No, she wasn’t trying to
stop them now—they had stopped.

She moved forward again. There was a warm feeling instead of a cold one
at her heart. It was just as if she had put out a hand to Bill in the
dark and it had found him. She went forward, feeling her way. The ground
rose a little and was drier. She trod on a bramble-trail and winched,
pulled away from it, and found her ankle caught and flayed. When she was
free again she went on. Roots—tussocks of coarse grass—a stump that
grazed her shin—more brambles. And then suddenly, dreadfully, her hand
reaching out before her touched flesh—the hard, firm flesh of a man’s
cheek. She felt the bone beneath it, the angle of the cheek-bone and
jaw, and the shaved hair harsh against her palm as it slipped. Her palm
slipped because she was slipping. The world was falling away from under
her feet. The darkness was full of fiery sparks.

She pitched forward into Bill Coverdale’s arms.




                                  XXXI


The arms closed round her, but she did not feel them. For a moment she
felt nothing at all, and then waked with Bill’s cheek against her
own—the cheek she had touched in such an agony of terror just before
she fell. She was wet, she was lost, she was being hunted to her death;
the bog had her by the feet, and the darkness shut them in; but that
waking moment was the happiest she had ever known. To pass from the
extremity of dread to the extremity of joy, to fear the worst and to
find the best, to wake from lonely grief in her lover’s arms—what more
poignant happiness could any woman know? The moment carried everything
before it—shyness, hesitancy, doubt. She turned her lips to his and
gave him kiss for kiss in an eager passion of joy.

The moment passed. She did not know how long it had lasted. It was
outside time. It passed. She became aware of her body again, a drenched,
trembling thing, and of Bill’s lips, not on hers any longer, but at her
ear with an almost soundless whisper.

“Meg—what’s up?”

She had to whisper too. A word might ruin them, might ruin Bill. She
said,

“They’re trying to kill me.”

“Why?”

“The Cannock—she _isn’t_—I think Uncle Henry’s a prisoner—_Bill_!”

His arms tightened about her.

“You’re all wet—_Meg_!”

“I had to swim.”

“It’s all right—now. I’ve got my car. We’ve only got to get to the
gate.”

“_Only!_” Meg felt a shaky laugh rise in her throat. The gate would be
watched, the gate would be locked. It wasn’t any good thinking about the
gate. She began to say this with her face pressed against Bill’s
shoulder, but all at once he stopped her. There was a sound away on
their right—a splash, and a rip of cloth. There were more blackberry
bushes than one, and more bog-holes.

They began to move away from the sound without a word, pushing through
the undergrowth and making for the gate—making, that is, for where they
supposed it to be, or where Bill supposed it to be, for Meg had stopped
having any ideas on the subject. The points of the compass, the
direction of the village, the position of the gate, and her own
whereabouts were all gone from her, dissolved in the confusion of this
darkness which had drowned everything. She followed Bill because she
would have followed him anywhere. Her bare feet and legs were terribly
scratched. The way seemed endless.

And then quite suddenly they were out of the wood. The wall rose up
before them, solid and black, and between it and the bushes from which
they had emerged there was a path. Bill took her by the arm and ran her
along it. It was much less dark than it had been in the wood. If you
looked up you could see the top of the wall against the sky, and the
black massing of the trees. When they came to it they would be able to
see the lodge, and when they came to the lodge they would be within one
short dash of the gates. But they couldn’t get out. The gates were
locked.

The lodge loomed up. Bill’s hand checked her. She trembled under it and
stopped. They both stopped, listening. There was no sound at all. They
crept forward until they were level with the side of the lodge, the back
door behind, the front door still ahead, the gate perhaps twenty yards
away, when with a sudden flash the light of a powerful torch leapt
towards them from the drive and was instantly followed by a shot. And no
bad shot either. The bullet passed between them. Close as they were, an
inch or two higher or an inch or two lower and it would have found no
room. It whistled through the gap between head and shoulder—two heads,
two shoulders, as close as might be, yet leaving just that gap—and it
ripped the cloth of Bill’s sleeve as it went, just where armhole and
shoulder-seam join. A shout followed the shot.

Bill ducked, and jumped Meg sideways. The ray followed them, and another
shot—wide this time. He ran her round the corner of the lodge and in at
the back door, and there drove the bolts home.

But he had broken the kitchen window. It wasn’t going to take the
sportsman with the revolver more than about three split seconds to find
that out. The place was a trap. Upstairs would give them the best
chance. The stair was bound to be steep, and with any luck it might
turn. He made for it, getting out his own torch as they went. And the
luck was good. There wasn’t any turn, but there was something a great
deal better. The stair was one of those enclosed ones common enough in
old cottages. It went up between two walls and ended in a yard-square
landing with a door on either side. Anyone who wanted to play rough
would have to stand in that narrow space and open one of those doors,
when it would be the pleasantest and easiest thing in the world to slog
him over the head with a chair.

He explained all this to Meg as soon as they had shut themselves into
the left-hand room. It was a bedroom, very untidy and ill-kept. The
torch showed a few inches of guttered candle in a tin candlestick on the
narrow ledge above the fireplace. Bill lighted it. Since it was known
that they were here, they might as well see what they were doing. The
candle flame, very yellow after the blue white of the electric ray,
showed a sloped ceiling, a muddle of bedclothes on a pallet bed, and a
battered yellow chest of drawers standing under the window with a
cracked mirror hanging half out of its frame.

The opposite wall was pierced by a second door. It stood ajar. Bill took
the candle and looked in. Another bedroom, overlooking the front
door—the old woman’s room by token of a red flannel dressing-gown
hanging from a peg. He found a second candle, lighted it from the one he
was carrying, and left it on the rickety chest of drawers just inside
the door. Then he came back with his long, quick stride to listen at the
head of the stair. There was no sound from below, no sound at all
anywhere. It might have been Robinson Crusoe’s house on a desert island.
He looked over his shoulder at Meg.

“Get along in there and find some dry clothes. You can’t stay like
that!”

Meg dripped on the dirty square of carpet. She had discarded her skirt
before she jumped into the lake. Her pale silk knickers were horribly
smothered with mud and a greenish slime, her bare legs were scratched
and bleeding, her grey woollen jumper was a sodden sponge, but her eyes
glinted obstinately at Bill.

“If you think I’m going to put on any of that horrible old woman’s
things—”

Bill scowled ferociously.

“Don’t be an absolute damned fool! You can’t stay like that! Get along
in there and see what you can find! And step on it, because we’re going
to have visitors, and you’ll be happier with some clothes on!”

She stamped a bare foot and said, “I won’t!” and then suddenly ran from
him into the other room and banged the door.

Her flesh crawled at the thought of Mrs Henderson’s clothes. But
yesterday—no, the day before yesterday—she had seen a string of
washing hanging out behind the lodge, and if she could find something
that had just been washed—

She pulled out the drawers and looked. In the top one there was a most
extraordinary collection of things—several pairs of old evening shoes;
a tattered plush tablecloth which had once been blue; five or six
fans—lace, silk, satin, and even paper; at least a dozen handbags; and
two fur tippets in a noisome state of decay.

Meg shut the drawer with a shudder, and tried the next one, with better
luck. Here were some of the clothes she had seen on the line. A
voluminous flannelette night-gown came first to her hand. It was of a
horrid greyish colour, but it had certainly been washed and dried again.
It was quite, quite dry. Bill was right, much as she hated to admit it.
It was a mug’s game to stay in these sopping clothes. She peeled them
off, took the next garment to rub herself dry, and pulled the night-gown
over her head. If felt warm to her chilled skin.

Well, that was that. What next?

She did not feel equal to Mrs Henderson’s drawers, which were made of
blue and white checked stuff with very long open legs. There was a pair
of these, a roll of unmade calico, and some black woollen stockings. As
these also seemed to have been newly washed, she put on a pair of them.

Then she pulled out the bottom drawer. It was filled with the same
heterogeneous jumble of things as the first drawer she had opened. There
were boots, and table-knives, a woollen scarf, yards of frowsty black
lace, a packet of candles, some gingerbread nuts, and a horribly
draggled red velvet dress. But right on top of all this muddle there was
an unopened brown paper parcel with the name of a Ledlington draper on
the outside. Mrs Henderson had been shopping, or her son had been
shopping for her, and when Meg had torn open the parcel she felt that
they had shopped to some purpose, for neatly folded inside the paper was
a pair of strong black stockinette knickers and a thick navy cardigan.
It took her about half a minute to step into the knickers, blessedly new
and clean from the shop, and to tuck the night-gown inside them. She had
to double it up from the hem and wrap it about twice round her, but that
made it all the warmer, and when it was done and she had put on the blue
cardigan and buttoned it up she felt grateful to Bill, and a good deal
revived. She bulged—or rather Mrs Henry’s night-gown bulged—but she
was dry, and the feeling that she had forgotten what it was like to be
warm and would probably never remember it again became less insistent.

When she opened the door Bill was still at the other one, listening. The
minute she moved he spoke.

“Put out your candle and look out of the front window. No one’s come
into the house.”

Meg looked out, waited a while, and came back.

“There’s someone there—by the gate. I think it’s Henderson. I think it
was Henderson who fired at us.”

There was a momentary pause. Then Bill said,

“How many of them are there? Do you know?”

“There are the Hendersons—the old woman, and Johnny—he’s her
grandson—and Henderson—he’s supposed to be the chauffeur. I think
they’re all in it together. I don’t think it’s the first job they’ve
done together. I think they’re all—criminals.”

“I expect they are,” said Bill grimly.

Meg came across the room.

“Then inside the house there are the Millers. She used to be a
pick-pocket, but she cried about their drowning me. He’s—” She paused
and added in a horrified whisper, “very dangerous.”

“Is that all?”

“I’ve seen another man. I don’t think I was meant to see him. I don’t
know his name. And then—” She broke off. “Bill—you don’t know—I’m
frightened. Henderson knows we’re here. If he doesn’t come after us it’s
because he’s waiting for _her_. Someone’s gone to fetch her—I’m sure of
it—Johnny, or the old woman. _She’s_ running the show. They won’t do
anything without her.”

Bill said, “Who?”

As he spoke, he put his arm round her and pulled her up to him. The
movement had the same roughness which his voice had had when he told her
to go and change. It was the first time Bill had ever been rough to her
in his life, and all at once Meg knew why he was rough to her now. They
were in a tight place, they were in a horribly tight place, and he was
scared for her.

He said “_Who?_” again, and she said, pressing up to him.

“The Cannock—only she isn’t really—she was just playing at being the
Cannock. She can be anyone she likes. She’s been Uncle Henry, and Della
Delorne—”

“_What?_” And then, “Tell me—tell me quickly!”

She told him, speaking in a soft breathless whisper with his arm round
her, and all the while he leaned against the door, listening to her and
waiting for the first sound of a step on the closed-in stair. She left
the telling about Robin O’Hara to the last. She said,

“They killed Robin—he’s dead. They killed him here. They put him in the
water. They were going to kill me the same way. She was going to wear my
clothes, and pretend to get into a train at Ledlington so that everyone
would think I had gone away, and when I was drowned they were going to
drive up to town and put me in the river to make it look as if I’d
killed myself.” A shudder went over her. It was unbelievable and
horrible, but it had very nearly happened. And what was going to happen
now?

“Look here,” said Bill, “we’ve got to try and get away before anyone
else turns up. No, don’t shiver and shake like that. Listen! Are you
listening?”

Meg nodded against his shoulder.

“If it’s only Henderson there, it’ll be quite easy. The gate isn’t
locked—I found the key and opened it. But Henderson thinks it’s
locked—at least I hope he does—so I propose to make a diversion and
see if I can’t get him to follow me. I’ll draw him away from the gate,
and you must slip out, get into the car—it’s about twenty yards down
the road—and start the engine. Then I’ll make a dash for it, and with
any luck we’ll get clear. If I don’t come, drive into the village and
raise Cain.”

As he said these last words, there came a gentle knocking on the front
door.




                                 XXXII


They looked at each other in the yellow candle-light, drawing a little
apart. Meg’s hair was ruffled wildly all over her head. There was blood
on her cheek, and a long green smear. Her eyes looked darkly bright. She
said quickly,

“Bill, shall I go and see who it is? I can look out of the window.”

“No, you stay here—I’ll go. But listen, Meg—keep on listening. If
there’s a sound on the stair, call me.”

He went through to the front room, opened the casement window gingerly,
and looked out. The light of a stable-lantern set down upon the doorstep
illumined the form of Henry Postlethwaite. The white hair and beard
caught the light. He stood wrapped in the folds of his ulster, the broad
wide-awake hat tilted off his face, gazing mildly up at the front of the
house. As Bill stared at him in amazement, he leaned forward and knocked
again upon the door. Then, stepping back, he looked upwards and caught
sight of the open casement.

“Meg,” he called—“Meg! My dear, are you there?”

Bill felt completely flabbergasted. He said in a low, astonished voice.

“Professor—is that you?”

Henry Postlethwaite stepped back, picking up the lantern and raising it
above his head.

“My dear Bill! What a surprise—an exceedingly pleasant surprise! How
did you come here? And is Meg with you? We are in some concern about
her. The chauffeur, foolish fellow, is unfortunately the worse for
drink, and I am afraid he frightened her just now. Will you tell her I
am here, and that there is no cause for alarm?”

Meg’s hand fell gently on Bill’s shoulder. She put her lips to his ear,
whispered “It isn’t Uncle Henry—it’s the Cannock—I watched her making
up,” and was gone again.

Bill followed her.

“Do you mean it isn’t the Professor? Meg—are you sure?”

“Of course I’m sure! I watched her—stuff out of a bottle, and a wig,
and a beard. I should think she’s the cleverest actress in the world. Oh
Bill—what are you going to do?”

Bill took the spanner out of his pocket and opened the door at the top
of the stairs.

“I’m going to let her in,” he said.

But when he opened the front door there was nobody there. Had some extra
sense warned the woman who had stood there in Henry Postlethwaite’s
clothes? Or had her abnormally sharp ears caught, not the words, but the
sound of Meg’s whisper? She owed a good deal of her success in the life
she had chosen to a lightning-quick reaction to the merest hint of
danger. She had not waited for Bill to open the door. The lantern stood
against the step, and somewhere beyond its circle of light a dark figure
watched the house.

Bill stared at the lantern and the empty space around it, but only for
the smallest measurable time. He was behind the door before he banged it
to, and the bullet that was aimed at him crashed through the old wood
and buried itself in the plaster of the inner wall. It missed the hand
on the latch by an inch, and if he had been less quick to move, it would
not have missed his heart, for the latch stood breast-high.

He shot two bolts, and met Meg at the stair foot.

“Bill—you’re not hurt!”

“Not this time.”

They went upstairs again.

A voice hailed them from the back, and the horrible thing was that it
was still Henry Postlethwaite’s voice. Even in this tight place, there
was a touch of macabre humour in the idea of the gentle, absent
Professor flourishing around with a revolver and taking pot shots at
them.

The voice said, “Coverdale—” and, Bill having opened the small dirty
window to its fullest extend when they first came in, the name was
perfectly audible.

He pushed Meg into the corner, stood well to one side of the casement
himself, and said, “Well, Miss Cannock?”

“_Really_, Coverdale!”

“Come off it!” said Bill succinctly.

There was the sound of a laugh. It was Miss Della Delorne’s laugh, and
it made Meg’s spine creep. Then Miss Cannock’s earnest high-pitched
voice said,

“Well, Mr Coverdale, _really_! What a way to speak to a lady! I am
surprised—I really am!”

“You’ll be a great deal more surprised before you’re through,” said
Bill.

“Oh, I don’t know. Do you really think so? Now I’ve got an idea—but
perhaps I shouldn’t mention it—it’s only just an idea—that
the—er—shoe might be on the other foot.”

“Now look here,” said Bill, “you can stop all this play-acting, because
it doesn’t cut any ice with me! Let’s get down to brass tacks. I’m
willing to come to terms with you, because Mrs O’Hara’s had enough and I
want to get her away. Your game’s up.”

“Oh no,” said the voice from the darkness. “Oh no, Mr Coverdale.”

“Oh yes, it is—and you know it. We can stick it out up here for a great
deal longer than you can afford to wait. Colonel Garratt knows where I
am, and if I don’t ring him up within the hour, he’ll get going.”

“Dear me,” said Miss Cannock’s voice, “how very thoughtful of you! But
you said something about terms—”

“Yes, I did,” said Bill. “For the sake of getting Mrs O’Hara away I’ll
undertake that we’ll hold our tongues till tomorrow morning, and you can
clear out and be damned to you!”

Miss Cannock’s voice sounded shocked.

“Oh, Mr _Coverdale_!” And then it ceased to be Miss Cannock’s voice and
took on the hard, ringing tones of Miss Della Delorne. “Nothing doing,
I’m afraid. And you can’t bluff me. All that about Garratt’s bluff. If
you’d got anything like that fixed up, you’d see us somewhere before you
gave us the chance of clearing out. And now here are _my_ terms. You’ll
come down, Mrs O’Hara first, and I’ll give you the same sort of chance
you’ve offered me. We’ll lock you up on the island, and you can stay
there till Garratt fetches you.”

Meg clutched at Bill’s arm and put her lips to his ear to whisper
breathlessly,

“No, Bill—_no_! She wouldn’t dare to let us go—we know too much.”

He pressed her shoulder.

“All right—leave it to me.”

Then he said aloud,

“That’s not good enough. We’re staying here.”

“Just as you like,” said Miss Della Delorne.

He heard her laugh as if she were amused at something. Then she called,

“All right, Johnny, bring them along.”

There was a sound of feet, a sound of voices. The handle of the back
door was shaken. Della Delorne said without troubling to drop her voice,

“The window’s broken—you can get in that way and open the door.”

They heard him below them in the house. They heard the bolts go creaking
back. Then Cannock’s voice came from the dark,

“Mr Coverdale—”

“Yes?” said Bill. He was listening for a step on the stairs and didn’t
intend to be diverted.

“I thought you would like to know what is happening. I think you had
really better reconsider your decision. At the time it was taken you had
not all the—er—data before you, if I may say so, but when I tell you
that Johnny has just taken three tins of petrol into the lodge, and that
as soon as I give him the word he will—er—decant them, you may wish to
change your mind. A match thrown in through the window would have very
unhappy consequences.”

“Keep on listening at that door, Meg!” said Bill. Then he turned
perforce to the window. “Talk about bluff!” he said. “Do you expect me
to believe you’d risk a bonfire? Why, you’d have the whole village here
before you could turn round.”

The amused laugh came again.

“Oh yes, Mr Coverdale—I’d thought of that. But I’m afraid—I’m very
much afraid that the village wouldn’t get here in time to save you—and
Mrs O’Hara. I’m really very much afraid they wouldn’t. I’ve got an idea
that the lodge will burn like tinder. I’ll give you two minutes to make
up your mind. Personally, I would—er—prefer being drowned to being
burned if it came to a choice.” There was a mocking note in the voice,
which just at the end was a strange voice and not Miss Cannock’s at all.
“Two minutes,” it said, and there was a silence.

Meg turned from the door, and Bill put his arms round her.

“What are we going to do?”

“I don’t know, my dear—try and make a dash for it. It’s the only
change. _Now_—before they’re expecting it.”

When he began to speak he had no plan. They couldn’t stay here—they
couldn’t surrender. He had got no farther than that. But even as he
said, “I don’t know,” thought and impulse rushed together into action.
He had the door open and Meg half way down the stair before she realized
what had happened. The faint candle-light pursued them. There was no
light below. Someone loomed out of the darkness of the passage and went
down with a clatter across a petrol-tin as Bill rushed him. Meg found
herself jumping across the sprawled body. And then they were at the
front door and the bolts had to be shot back. The top one stuck, and as
Bill struggled with it, there was a sound of light running feet behind
them, a small strong hand caught Meg by the shoulder, and the muzzle of
a revolver was jammed hard against her spine. She made a little gasping
sound as the bolt gave. The hand pulled her and she went back step by
step until the width of the room was between her and the opening door.
Then Della Delorne’s voice spoke sharply over her shoulder.

“If you open that door, I shall shoot! I’ve got Mrs O’Hara over here.”
The hand on Meg’s shoulder shook it. “Tell him to put up his hands! If
he moves, you’re dead. Tell him so!”

“She’s got a revolver sticking into my back,” said Meg with dry lips.

“Put up your hands!” said Della Delorne. Then she called over her
shoulder, “Here you, grandma—bring a light!”

It was a most horrible moment. Bill had put up his hands because he
could do nothing else. He stood with his back against the door, and very
faintly he could see Meg on the other side of the room. The door opened
directly into the living-room. A very faint glimmer of candle-light came
down the stair and through the inner door. He could just see Meg against
the jamb, with the black figure behind her which was, and wasn’t, Della
Delorne—the Cannock—horribly garbed as Henry Postlethwaite.

A flickering candle came along the passage. The old woman carried it,
holding it up above her head. It showed her white wild hair, her
expression of malicious glee. It showed Meg, very white, in the dark
blue cardigan and black knickers. It lit up that presentment of Henry
Postlethwaite, less like him now that ulster and wideawake had been
discarded. It showed the hand on Meg’s shoulder, the hand on the
revolver. It showed Johnny getting to his feet and coming forward.

Meg stood against the jamb. A sharp edge ran into her shoulder as she
pressed against the wooden upright. She felt that, and the revolver
against her spine, and the cruel grip of the hand on her other shoulder.
She did feel these things, but she felt them with an effort, as if they
were happening a long way off to somebody else. And the sound of the
voices was far away in a fog, and the sound of Johnny groaning, and
scrambling up. She gave a little choking sigh and slipped from the hand
that was holding her down on to the dirty floor, and in that moment Bill
got his hands on a chair and charged with it straight into the group at
the door. It was a kitchen chair with a solid wooden seat and heavy
splayed legs. The old woman screamed and ran back. The woman in Henry
Postlethwaite’s clothes fired two shots, one before the chair leg struck
her, and the other from the ground to which she had been hurled. And
then, sharp on that, the front door swung in and Bill went down under
Henderson’s weight and a cracking blow on the head. The man had jumped
for him, landing with a fearful impetus. For a moment they were all on
the floor together, and then Henderson was uppermost and Bill found
himself held in a grip against which he could do nothing. If he
struggled he would break an arm—both arms. If this was Henderson, he
knew a thing or two about jujitsu.

Bill let himself go limp. He had shot his bolt, and they were in a
pretty bad way. There was no point in getting his arms broken. He
wondered if Garratt would really come and look for them, and how much
chance he had of finding them alive. If he hadn’t unbolted the front
door before the woman came up, Henderson wouldn’t have been able to get
in, and they might have had a chance of getting away—a pretty desperate
chance, but when it’s a choice between a desperate chance and no chance
at all you have to take what you can get and be thankful. He had these
thoughts in his mind whilst Henderson knelt on the small of his back and
the old woman brought a rope and they tied him up, elbows together
behind his back and knees hobbled. After which Henderson jerked him to
his feet—the man had the strength of a bull—and told him he could walk
to the car—“And no tricks, or I’ll shoot. And mind you, I’d like to
shoot, so you watch your step, Mr Blooming Coverdale!”

The woman had got to her feet. She straightened the wig and beard calmly
and without haste. Then she bent down and gave Meg’s arm a vicious
pinch. There was no response. No shudder passed over the slumped figure.
There was no wincing of the flesh, no indrawn breath. She pinched again,
and straightened up.

“You’ll have to carry her,” she said. “I don’t think she’s shamming, but
you can tie her wrists to be on the safe side.”

Bill’s boiling fury must have showed in his face, for she came up to
him, laughed a little, and flicked him lightly on the cheek.

“You big fool!” she said, and laughed again.

They came out of the lodge, Henderson first with Meg over his shoulder,
head and hands hanging limp, face deathly pale in the candle-light. They
had set the candle down on the table. It guttered in the wind of the
open door, and the room they were leaving was full of shadows. Bill
could just shuffle along. The old woman laughed at him and pulled
mocking faces. It was a singularly ignominious approach to death.

Neither Bill nor Meg had heard the car. It was out of sight of the lodge
just round the bend of the drive, with the engine ticking over but no
lights showing. The most humiliating part of a humiliating experience
was being hoisted and dragged into the back seat, with Meg flung down on
it like a dead thing. He had a moment’s horrible fear that she was dead,
that one of the shots had struck her and she was dead—already. And then
it came to him that he ought to be glad, because they were going to kill
them anyhow, and Meg would be saved the pain and fear of dying.

The car began to back along the drive until it came to the first of the
open ground, where Henderson made his turn and took them smoothly up to
the house. There were six of them in the car, the woman and Henderson in
front, and Miller and Johnny at the back. He didn’t know where Miller
had sprung from, but he was here now, and when they got out of the car
and came in at the door, it was he who carried Meg, and Johnny who
shoved Bill up the steps, while Henderson turned the car again and then
stayed there ready at the wheel, with the engine running.

They were in the hall with its one dim light which merely served to make
the gloom visible. The woman had the lead. She was still bare-headed and
coatless, but Henry Postlethwaite’s ulster hung over her arm and his
black wideawake dangled from her left hand. In her right she held the
revolver. Miller came next to her, carrying Meg, with one arm under her
shoulders and the other under her knees. Bill and Johnny brought up the
rear. Bill could only just hobble. At every step he was in danger of
pitching forward upon his face. His arms were crossed and bound behind
him, and the cruel strain disturbed his sense of balance. He felt oddly
top-heavy, as if he were a mere trunk without limbs. As to his mental
state, it was one of savage despair.

“Straight through the house,” said the woman. She still used Miss
Cannock’s voice. Perhaps she had used it so long that she used it now
without thought.

Bill’s despair deepened. Straight through the house meant straight to
the edge of the lake—at least he took it that way. It meant the end. It
meant that they were to die now. He prayed that Meg wouldn’t wake up.
Let her sleep and not know. But a horrified flash of imagination showed
her waking at the cold touch of the water—waking unprepared to an
instant of panic fear—perhaps screaming. He prayed he would be dead
before he heard her scream.

And then, sudden and sharp on the front door, there came a loud,
insistent knocking. There was just the one instant of shock, and then
the woman was giving her orders, low and steady. “Run them into the blue
room! Come back at once!” And with that she was gone into the empty room
on the right whose windows commanded the entrance.

Bill was propelled forward by Johnny. Miller turned once to say, “Make a
sound and she’s dead!” And so they came to the blue room. It was dark,
but no one waited to make a light. Meg was thrown down on the floor,
Bill shoved in so that he came down across her. The door was shut. The
sound of running feet advertised Miller’s haste to be gone. The knocking
on the door persisted—a loud, continuous rat-rat-tat.

Bill had fallen with his head against Meg’s shoulder, and now in the
dark he felt her move. Through the sound of the knocking he heard her
catch her breath and say his name in a piteous voice like a child’s.

“Bill—is it you?”

“Meg! My darling! You’re not hurt?”

Foolish, senseless thing to say on the edge of death, but it said
itself. His heart was broken with his love for her, and her danger. He
could not have said what words he used.

She gave a small bewildered sob.

“I—don’t know. Where are we?”

Bill was making strenuous efforts to get up. He was on his knees as he
said,

“In the blue room. Meg, get up! Can you? There’s someone knocking at the
front door. With any luck it’s Garratt. But we ought to get out of here,
because she may send someone back to finish us.”

Meg’s wrists were tied, but her legs were free. She got up feeling giddy
and bruised. With a jerk and a struggle, Bill was on his feet.

It took them a minute to get the door open. They stumbled into the hall
as a very large policeman entered it from the other side.




                                 XXXIII


Colonel Garratt came into the hall a minute later by way of the front
door, which the large policeman had obligingly opened. He was in a very
bad temper and made no attempt to conceal it. The spectacle of Bill in
process of being unroped twisted his mouth into a sardonic grin. He used
regrettably strong language before he noticed Meg, and then failed to
apologize for it.

“Got away?” he said. “Of course they got away! It’s all that damned fool
Murray’s fault! I never knew a Chief Constable yet—” He checked
himself, glared at the large policeman, and barked, “Can’t talk here!
Where’s a room? What’s been happening? You look as if you’d been making
a fool of yourself too! I suppose I’m the _deus ex machina_!”

They went into the blue room and put on the light. The sofa on which Meg
had slept her drugged sleep was still pushed against the wall. Bill
pulled it out, but she shuddered away from it and found a chair instead.

“Well?” said Garratt. “What’s up? What have you been doing? Murray’s
away chasing them—but he won’t get them, the silly old fool! I denied
myself the pleasures of the chase”—he smiled malevolently—“in order to
find out just what kind of a fool you _had_ been making of yourself.”

Bill, stretching his arms, flexing the muscles, desisted for a moment in
order to grin amiably and say,

“Always the perfect little gentleman—ain’t you, Garratt? The glass of
fashion and the mould of form, and all that!”

“How did they get away?” said Meg quickly.

“Yes, we’d like to know that.”

“Murray’s a fool,” said Garratt, “and I told him so. We drove up to the
door—by the way, I suppose that’s your car outside by the gates?”

Bill nodded.

“And you may thank me that you were able to drive in at all, because if
it hadn’t been for my superhuman intelligence in burgling the lodge,
finding the key, and unlocking the gates, you’d be stuck outside them
still—and a fat lot of use you’d have been to us there. But go on with
your story. You drove up in style—and then what happened?”

Garratt scowled at him.

“One of Murray’s beef-headed policemen banged on the door. No one came.
He went on banging. And when plenty of time had been given for everyone
to get away who wanted to, a car came out of the hinterland and biffed
off into the blue at a hundred m.p.h.” He laughed his barking laugh.
“And Murray’s gone chasing them in his old buzz-box!”

“Um—” said Bill. “That would be Henderson. The car’s a Bentley. He
carted us up here and turned, and when he heard you coming he must have
backed her up the drive out of sight. I wonder how many of them he took
on board.”

Garratt made his horrible grimace.

“He seemed to have a busful. Murray’s beefeaters are searching the
premises. Not my job, thank heaven!”

“Is any of it?” said Bill with atrocious ingratitude. “I won’t say we
weren’t glad to see you, but I’d like to know how you got here,
embedded, so to speak, in a solid mass of County constabulary?”

“I suppose you think you’re funny!” said Garratt.

“Oh no—it’s only intelligent curiosity. Was it my message that brought
you? I left one for you, but it doesn’t explain the constabulary.”

“Henderson explains the constabulary,” said Garratt briskly.

He was warming himself at the sunk fire. He rattled a shovelful of coal
down upon the embers, kicked them into a blaze, and went on speaking.

“Beastly cold room this! Damned damp here! Mrs O’Hara looks frozen. Yes,
Henderson accounts for the constabulary. He’s an old lag—string of
aliases, string of convictions—mostly robbery with violence—and he’s
wanted for a job in the Midlands. One of Murray’s bright lads spotted
him in Ledlington the other day—made some inquiries on his own. Murray
had the whole thing up before him this afternoon. Well, he was
dilly-dallying over it, afraid of running his head against a stone
wall—Henry Postlethwaite’s household—Henry Postlethwaite’s
chauffeur—Henry Postlethwaite’s international reputation. Murray’s an
old woman, you know, and he was afraid to tackle it—afraid of its being
just the sort of business it’s turned out to be. Well, he came up to
town, dined at his club, saw me, told me all about it, and right on top
of that my man rang up—said you’d been calling me, said you’d left a
message to say you were off to Ledstow Place. I told Murray we’d better
make a night of it, trotted him off to collect his posse, and we
arrived, I gather, in the nick of time. And now I’d like to hear your
end of the business.”

“Tell him, Meg,” said Bill.

Meg was curled up in one of the blue chairs, a boyish figure in the
black stockinette knickers and navy cardigan, with the old woman’s
night-gown showing like a shirt in front. Her hair had dried in rumpled
curls. The colour had come to her cheeks again, her dark blue eyes were
brilliant. She told her story well and quickly, and when she came to the
scene in Miss Cannock’s room and described the astonishing changes she
had witnessed from her hiding-place on the top of the wardrobe, Garratt
suddenly slapped his thigh and burst out:

“Maud Millicent, or I’ll eat my hat!”

Bill and Meg repeated the names—“Maud Millicent!”

Garratt slapped his thigh again and recited in jerks: “Maud Millicent
Deane—daughter of the Reverend Geoffrey Arthur Deane—born Jan. 1st
1900—married 1919 John Harold Simpson bachelor, and, December 13th
1929—Simpson having gone west—Bernard James Mannister—_the_ Bernard
James Mannister.”[2]

“Lord!” said Bill. “You mean she’s the woman in the Denny affair?”

Garratt nodded.

“She was the Vulture’s right hand while he lived—she’s run the show
since he died. She can act any part, write any hand, mimic any voice.”
He stopped, fascinated Meg by gritting his teeth audibly, and added with
concentrated bitterness, “And that chump Murray’s let her slip through
his fingers!” He kicked at the fire, and the flame shot up. Then he
swung round and snapped out, “How was she dressed?”

“As Uncle Henry,” said Meg. She jumped out of her chair, ran to Garratt,
and caught him by the arm. “Oh, Colonel Garratt—_Uncle Henry_—we’ve
forgotten Uncle Henry! How _could_ we? He’s on the island! Oh, please
come and see if he’s all right!”

“_Island?_ What island?”

“There’s a bridge,” said Meg. “It goes over to the island. This house is
on the edge of the lake. It belonged to an old lady who was rather mad
and thought everyone was trying to kill her, so she built another house
on the island and shut herself up there. The bridge has a door at each
end, and the one at this end’s been broken down, but the other one’s
locked. Oh, do come quickly!”

Garratt scowled, walked to the door, opened it, and bellowed. When the
large policeman arrived his manner was very respectful indeed.

“If you please, sir, there’s nobody in the house at all except for an
old woman that Hawkins has brought up from the lodge and the cook that’s
crying her head off and says she don’t know nothing.”

So they had jettisoned the old woman and poor Milly. Meg determined to
do what she could for poor Milly who hadn’t wanted her to be drowned,
and had cried almost as bitterly as she was now crying for herself.

They proceeded to the bridge and passed the burst door, which hung
drunkenly from one hinge, and the smashed window through which Meg had
dived into the lake. The second door took some breaking down, but in the
end it gave, and they came into a little dark hall on the farther side
of which a line of light showed beneath a closed door.

It was Meg who ran forward and opened it. The three men came up behind
her. She stood with the door in her hand and stared into the room. It
was a very untidy room. The walls were entirely lined with books. The
fire was out, the air was cold and damp. A brilliant globe hung from the
middle of the ceiling. Beneath it at a crowded table sat Henry
Postlethwaite writing busily. At Meg’s exclamation, an exclamation which
came very near to being a sob, he looked round for a moment, put up his
hand in the familiar gesture which enjoined silence, and bent again to
the foolscap page.

There was a prolonged hush. Meg’s eyes were full of tears, because she
really hadn’t been sure that Uncle Henry was alive. She stared through
her tears. Bill stared. Garratt stared. The large policeman stared. They
had made enough noise to disturb the dead, but they hadn’t disturbed
Henry Postlethwaite. The breaking down of a door had made no more
impression upon him than had the fact that the temperature of the room
was rapidly approaching freezing-point. Like Gallio he cared for none of
these things. On some remote intellectual plane he gave battle, he
prevailed.

He wrote to the end of the page. Then he flung down his pen and turned
with an air of triumph to the staring group at the door.

“That settles Hoppenglocker!” he said.

-----

[2] See _Walk with Care_.




                                 XXXIV


The house on the island gave up enough evidence to consign Maude
Millicent Mannister and her associates to a very long term of penal
servitude, even if they escaped on the capital charge of murdering Robin
O’Hara. But “first catch your thief” is a very practical proverb. They
were not caught, and therefore they could neither be hanged nor
imprisoned. The Bentley was discovered in a garage on the outskirts of
London, but Maud Millicent, Henderson, Miller and Johnny seemed to have
vanished into space. Ledstow Place had provided them with a safe retreat
for a year. From the house on the island had emanated a flood of forged
notes which baffled the police for months. Miller was an expert
engraver, and had already served one sentence for forging and uttering.
Henry Postlethwaite, who had been persuaded to the house by his
secretary under pretext that it would afford him complete seclusion
during the critical later stages of his book, was slow to suspect, and
slower still to discover, that there was anything wrong with his
household. It is difficult to say what first aroused his suspicions, but
once it became evident that they had been aroused, he found himself a
prisoner on the island. His precious manuscript was confiscated, and the
threat held over him that it would be destroyed if he gave any trouble.
Under this threat he signed cheques, signed letters typed by Maud
Millicent, and was in return graciously permitted to go on with his
book. On the day of Bill’s visit he had seen him go down the drive. He
had mislaid some important notes, and his search for them had taken him
into the attic where many of his books and papers were stored. Its
windows looked over the wall which surrounded the island, and across the
lake. When he saw Bill going down the drive—going away, he made a bid
for freedom. The window had probably never been opened since the house
was built. Its bolt had rusted fast. Henry Postlethwaite took up a book
and broke the glass, but before he could lean out or call the attic door
flew open and the boy Johnny ran in upon him. There had been a painful
and undignified scene—there had even been something of a struggle.
Henry Postlethwaite refused to go into details about this. His cheeks
flushed, and he assumed a vague hauteur which discouraged further
questions.

He had, not unnaturally, taken a great dislike to Ledstow Place, and
intended to return without delay to Way’s End.

“And we shall have to let him have the Evanses,” said Bill with a groan.

“I’m afraid so,” said Meg. “But you know they always would have called
me Miss Meg, and never really believed I was quite grown up, so perhaps
it’s just as well.”

Garratt pulled strings. Formalities were gone through with what the
official mind obviously considered indecent haste, and Robin O’Hara was
pronounced legally dead.

Garratt as well as the bank manager was present when Meg opened the
packet which O’Hara had deposited at the bank just before his
disappearance. It contained a couple of snapshots and half a sheet of
paper. One of the snapshots showed the Millers, the other Henderson
standing by the car in his chauffeur’s uniform. There was a note on the
back of each. On the first: “Compare Rogues’ Gallery Scotland
Yard—Crooked Sue.” On the second: “Think this is the Basher. See
Rogues’ Gallery.”

The sheet of paper contained a very few lines of writing in the form of
rough notes:

“Chauffeur’s photograph—Henderson, Ledstow Place. Good references.
Forged?”

“Second photograph—Millers, Ledstow Place. Man and wife.”

“Cannock—secretary, Ledstow Place. Very good references from Professor
Oliver Smallholm, deceased.”

That was all.

Garratt put the paper down.

“The real Miss Cannock died just a month before Maud Millicent used her
references to get the job of secretary to Henry Postlethwaite. By the
way, I wonder what’s happened to the woman she
replaced—Williams—Wallace—what was her name? She left because she was
ill, didn’t she? So did the Evanses leave because they were ill!” He
laughed his barking laugh. “I wonder if she ate toadstools too. I wonder
whether the real Miss Cannock ate ’em, poor soul. Quiet, retiring
woman—invaluable secretary—no friends, no money, no private life—no
relation nearer than a distant cousin. Maud Millicent just slipped into
her shoes and wore ’em as if they belonged to her. She’s a dab at a
secretary’s job anyhow—that’s the way she got round Mannister. I see
he’s begun speechifying again, the old gas-bag. I wonder what he would
have said if we’d nabbed her. He likes the limelight, but he might have
found it a bit too strong. Well, we shan’t get her now—not until next
time.” He grimaced and shuffled his papers together. “That’s one
thing—there’s always bound to be a next time, and one of these next
times Maud Millicent will slip up, and when she slips we shall be
waiting for her. She’s got away with being Asphodel, and Geoffrey Deane,
and Della Delorne, and the Cannock woman, but some day she’ll go too far
and she won’t get away with it. Blackmail—forgery—murder—we’ll get
her some day, and when we do she’ll have a damned heavy bill to foot.”

He pushed back his chair, stood up, nodded abruptly to the manager, and
went out.

Bill and Meg followed him a few minutes later. They walked silently
along the grey street and did not speak. Bill was wondering about Della
Delorne. Had she attracted Robin O’Hara? Had he sought her because she
attracted him, or because he suspected her? Or had he begun by being
attracted, and ended in suspecting? On that last night before he went
down to Ledstow Place and to his death what had happened between them?
Something, beyond all cavil. He had tried to send a message, and because
a girl had been in a larking mood his message had gone up in smoke. What
had he feared? What had he discovered? What had he written on the scrap
of paper which had been burned? No one would ever know.

Meg was thinking her own thoughts—sad thoughts, hurt thoughts. Robin
had been her husband. They had loved each other, and then they had
stopped loving. Or perhaps he had never loved her at all. Perhaps there
was no real power of loving in him—only a hot flare of passion, and
then cold ash. Or perhaps not even that. Perhaps he had only wanted
Uncle Henry’s money.... She mustn’t think of that. She must only think
that he had died doing his duty.

They walked to the flat. A little rain began to fall. When they came
into Meg’s sitting-room it was so dark that Bill put the light on.

Meg went to the window and stood there looking out. The dreary houses
opposite were grey against the leaden sky. She felt tired, and old, and
without courage for the future. Bill oughtn’t to marry someone like
that. He ought to marry someone gay, and happy and full of life. A most
unregenerate feeling of dislike for this imaginary female warmed her a
little. She turned as Bill came up to her and put an arm about her
shoulders.

“What’s the matter, Meg?” And then, “Did you hate it very much, my
darling?”

She nodded. Her eyes stung. Bill loved her—he did really love her. It
was in his eyes when he looked at her, and in his voice when he said “My
darling.”

“It’s all over now,” he said. His arm tightened and he gave her a little
shake. “When are you going to marry me?”

“Bill—I’ve been thinking—you oughtn’t to. I feel as if—I mean—you
ought to marry someone who hasn’t been under a steam-roller.”

“Do you feel like that?” said Bill. He put his other arm round her.

She nodded.

“Yes, I do.”

“You won’t when we’re married.” His voice was strong and confident.

“How do you know?”

Bill looked at her. It was a loving, teasing look.

“Silly muggins!” he said.

“Bill!”

“You are!” He kissed the tip of her nose. “Any special girl you’d like
me to marry instead of you?”

“N-no,” said Meg.

“You’d have to hustle a bit, because I’m going to get married next
Monday as ever is.”

“Are you?”

Meg looked up, and then looked down again. She wasn’t quite sure whether
she was going to laugh or cry. She felt somewhere between the two. But
she wasn’t cold, and sad, and grey any more. She felt warm and full of
light. It wasn’t just Bill’s arms that were round her, it was his steady
unchanging love—a love so sure of itself and so sure of her that it
could laugh a little tenderly, tease a little, and hold her all the
time. She knew that he would never let her go.

She said against his shoulder,

“Are you, Bill?”

And Bill said,

“_We_ are.”

                                