Rachel Treherne got out of the first-class carriage in which she had
travelled to London, gave up her ticket at the barrier, and after
walking a little way in the direction of the exit stopped and looked up
at the station clock. It was only eleven. There was plenty of time for a
cup of tea. Tea, or coffee? It was always a moot point whether
refreshment-room tea was nastier than refreshment-room coffee, or less
nasty.

As she entered the refreshment-room Miss Treherne decided that she would
have coffee. She liked it less than tea, and would therefore not mind so
much whether it was good or bad. It would at any rate be scalding hot.
In spite of a warm suit and a fur coat she was cold. It had been snowing
when she left home, but here in London there was no fall, only the feel
of snow in the air, and an overhead gloom which looked as if it might
turn to fog. Rachel Treherne shivered and began to sip the hot, sweet
coffee. She did feel a little warmer by the time she had finished it.
She looked at her wrist-watch and found that it was now ten minutes past
eleven. Her appointment was at half past.

She crossed the station, hailed a taxi, and gave the address:

‘Montague Mansions, West Leaham Street, S.W.’

As the engine started up and the taxi began to move, she leaned into the
corner and shut her eyes. She couldn’t go back now. When she wrote to
make the appointment she had said to herself, ‘I needn’t keep it. It
will be quite easy to write and say that it is no longer necessary.’ But
she had not written. Miss Maud Silver had replied that she would be very
pleased to see Miss Treherne at 11.30 on Wednesday, November 3rd, and
Rachel Treherne was on her way to keep this appointment.

All the way up in the train she had thought, ‘I needn’t see her. I can
ring her up and say that I’ve changed my mind. Then I can shop, and do a
matinée, and go back home—’ No, she couldn’t just go back. She had
borne it too long. She couldn’t bear it any longer without some relief.
Having come so far, she must see Miss Silver. She need not tell her
anything, but having made the appointment, she must keep it. If Miss
Silver did not impress her favourably, she could always withdraw, say
she needed time to think the matter over, and then let it fade....
Something in her shuddered. ‘No—no—there’s no relief that way. I
must—I must tell someone. I can’t bear it alone any longer.’

She opened her eyes and sat up straight. Her heart felt cold in her, but
her mind was made up. She had played with the idea of seeing someone,
talking to someone, shifting this dreadful burden of fear. But now the
make-believe was over. Her mind was firmly set. Whatever came of it, she
would not go back without unburdening herself.

The taxi drew up. She paid the man and mounted half a dozen steps to the
modest entrance of Montague Mansions. It seemed to be a block of flats.
No porter, stone stairs going up, and one of those small lifts you work
yourself. Rachel Treherne was always rather afraid of them, because
twenty years ago when she was a girl her dress had caught in the iron
grille of the lift shaft and she had had a narrow escape of being
killed. She remembered Venice, and being nineteen, and the American who
had wrenched her free, tearing the muslin of her dress with his square,
powerful hands. How odd things were. She had forgotten his face, and she
had never known his name, but she could still see those very strong
hands which had saved her life. She had never felt really comfortable in
an automatic lift since then, but of course one did not give way to such
a foolish feeling.

She managed the lift very well, and found herself presently standing in
front of a door with the number 15 upon it. And, just over the bell, a
small brass plate with ‘Miss Silver. Private Enquiries.’ She rang
quickly, and had a momentary sensation of relief. If you have been
brought up as a gentlewoman you don’t play the errand-boy’s trick of
ringing a bell and running away.

A stout, old-fashioned woman opened the door. She had a big white apron
over a dark print dress, and she looked like the comfortable sort of
cook whom you do not expect to see in a London flat. She smiled
pleasantly and said,

‘Come right in out of the cold. Terrible draughty, all these stone
passages, and the street door standing open. Miss Treherne? Oh, yes,
Miss Silver will see you at once, ma’am.’

She opened the second door, and Rachel Treherne came into a room which
was much less like an office than a Victorian parlour. There was a
brightly flowered Brussels carpet, and plush curtains in a cheerful
shade of peacock-blue. There was a black woolly hearthrug in front of an
open coal fire. There were odd little Victorian chairs with bow legs,
upholstered laps, and curving waists. There was a row of photographs in
silver frames upon the mantelpiece, and over it a steel engraving of
Millais’ _Black Brunswicker_. On the opposite wall _The Soul’s
Awakening_, and _Bubbles_. The wallpaper, covered with bunches of
violets, put the clock back forty years.

In the middle of the Brussels carpet stood a writing-table of carved
yellow walnut, and at this table sat a little woman in a snuff-coloured
dress. She had what appeared to be a great deal of mousy-grey hair done
up in a tight bun at the back and arranged in front in one of those
extensive curled fringes associated with the late Queen Alexandra, the
whole severely controlled by a net. Below the fringe were a set of neat,
indeterminate features and a pair of greyish eyes. In complexion Miss
Silver inclined to being sallow, but her skin was smooth and unlined. At
the moment of Miss Treherne’s entrance she was engaged in addressing an
envelope. She completed the address, blotted it, and setting the letter
upon one side, looked up with an air of grave attention and slightly
inclined her head.

‘Miss Treherne? I hope you did not have a very cold journey. Pray be
seated.’

A chair had been placed in readiness on the far side of the table. Miss
Treherne sat down, and was aware of scrutiny, not prolonged but keen.
Miss Silver’s small greyish eyes raked her and dropped to the knitting
which she had taken from her lap and which now appeared to engage her
whole attention. The garment on her needles was one of those small
coatees which are showered upon expectant mothers. In colour it was of a
delicate shade of pink. A large white silk handkerchief protected the
wool from contact with Miss Silver’s snuff-coloured lap.

What the grey eyes had seen was a tall and slender woman who might be
anything between thirty-five and forty years of age—good carriage, good
skin, good eyes, good hair. The colouring should have been dark and
rich, but there was a blight upon it—a chill. The lips held an anxious
line. The eyes went here and there like those of a startled horse. The
hands held one another. So much for the woman.

Miss Silver looked up from her knitting, took another glance, and could
have written a complete inventory of Miss Treherne’s habiliments—a
hand-knitted suit in a beige and brown mixture, heavy silk stockings,
and excellently cut low-heeled shoes of dark brown leather; a very good
fur coat; a single modest row of real pearls; a small brown felt hat.
Everything betokened the woman of taste and means who lives a country
life.

Everything also betokened a woman driven by fear. Whilst Miss Treherne
made answer that the weather was very cold for November, Miss Silver was
noting the nervous movement of those clasping hands. She knitted half a
row before she said,

‘You are very punctual. I appreciate punctuality. Will you tell me why
you have come to see me?’

Rachel Treherne leaned forward.

‘I don’t think I should have come, Miss Silver. I wrote to you, but I
think I have only come to apologise and to say—’

‘Second thoughts are not always best,’ said Miss Silver primly. ‘You are
very nervous. You wrote to me because you were alarmed and you felt that
you must speak to someone about what was alarming you. This gave you
some momentary relief, and you began to think you had been foolish—’

‘How do you know?’ cried Rachel Treherne.

Miss Maud Silver nodded.

‘It is my business to know things. And it is true, is it not? May I ask
who recommended me to you?’

‘No one.’ Miss Treherne leaned back again. ‘Hilary Cunningham—she—the
Cunninghams are connections of an old friend of mine. I met them there,
and Hilary was talking about you—oh, months ago. And then when I felt I
couldn’t bear it any longer I remembered your name and looked you up in
the London directory. But, Miss Silver, I don’t want anyone to know—’

Miss Silver nodded again.

‘Naturally, Miss Treherne. All my work is extremely confidential. As
Lord Tennyson so beautifully puts it, “Oh, trust me all in all or not at
all.” I very frequently quote those lines to my clients. A great poet,
now sadly neglected. And really very practical, because it is no use
expecting me to help you if you will not tell me how I can do so.’

‘No one can help me,’ said Rachel Treherne.

Miss Silver’s needles clicked briskly.

‘That sounds very foolish to me,’ she said. ‘And’—she coughed
slightly—‘just a little impious too. No one will help you if you will
not allow yourself to be helped. Now suppose you tell me just what is
worrying you, and we will see what can be done about it.’

Rachel Treherne was irresistibly reminded of her schoolroom days. Miss
Barker of estimable memory had displayed just such cheerful efficiency
as this when confronted by the intricacies of _Nathan der Weise_ or the
inaccuracies of a muddled problem in arithmetic. Something in her
responded to the click of the needles. She looked across the table with
her dark eyes wide and said:

‘I think someone is trying to kill me.’




                              Chapter Two


Miss Silver said, ‘Dear me!’ Her needles clicked reassuringly. She
looked up for a moment and said,

‘What makes you think so?’

Rachel Treherne drew in her breath.

‘I came here to say that, but I don’t think I ever really meant to say
it. Because when you say a thing like that nobody believes you, and now
that I’ve said it, it sounds even worse than it did when I thought about
saying it. Even then I knew that you wouldn’t believe me.’

‘People so often say that,’ said Miss Silver placidly. ‘The thing that
is troubling them appears to be unbelievable. But then of course they
have not, fortunately, any experience of crime. I, on the other hand,
have a great deal of experience. I assure you, Miss Treherne, there is
very little that I cannot believe. Now I think it would be a good thing
if you told me the whole story. First of all, why should anyone want to
kill you? Secondly, has any attempt been made, and if so, in what
circumstances? And in the third place, whom do you suspect?’ She laid
down her knitting as she spoke, took a bright red exercise-book out of
the top right-hand drawer, laid it open before her, dipped a pen, and
wrote a careful heading.

These actions had a curiously composing effect upon Miss Treherne. The
calming influence of routine made itself felt. Whatever she said would
go down in that little book and be on record there. The book touched the
schoolroom note again. Upon just such a page had she inscribed such
classic phrases as ‘Have you the pen of the gardener’s aunt?’ By the
time Miss Silver looked up she was ready with what she had to say.

‘I don’t know if you will believe me or not. You see, I don’t quite know
what to believe myself. You don’t know me, but if you were to ask people
who do know me, I think they would tell you that I am not naturally
suspicious or hysterical. I have always had a great deal to do. I
haven’t had much time to think about myself at all. I have had other
interests.’

‘Yes?’ said Miss Silver. ‘What interests, Miss Treherne?’

‘You know the name of Rollo Treherne?’

‘Ah,’ said Miss Silver—‘the Rollo Treherne Homes. Yes, indeed. You are
associated with those Homes?’

‘I am Rollo Treherne’s daughter. He made an immense fortune in
America—you probably know that—and he left it to me as a trust to
administer. He died seventeen years ago. It has kept me very busy.’

‘The Homes were your own idea?’

Rachel Treherne hesitated.

‘I think so. I had an old governess—we were all very fond of her. She
made me feel how unfair it was that people like her should work for
others all their lives and then have a bitterly poor old age. When I had
to consider what I was to do with all this money I thought about Miss
Barker, and that gave me the idea of the Treherne Homes.’

‘You devoted the whole of your father’s fortune to the Homes?’

‘Oh, no—I don’t want you to think that. There were certain sums I could
touch, but a great deal of the capital was tied up—rather curiously
tied up.’ She paused, and her voice changed. ‘I could leave it by will,
but I couldn’t give it away. It is a little difficult to explain.
Legally I have entire discretion, but actually I am bound by my father’s
wishes. That is why he left all the money to me—he knew that he could
trust me to consider myself bound.’

Miss Silver’s eyes lifted again. She looked for a moment at Rollo
Treherne’s daughter. Width of brow under the dark hair; eyes widely set;
nostrils very sensitive; lips pressed together for control, but not
thin—no, a good mouth, generously cut and meant to smile; chin firm.
She thought she knew why this woman had been burdened with wealth. Just
because it would be a burden to her, and not a toy. She said:

‘Just so. You are a trustee—morally. I quite understand.’

Miss Treherne leaned an elbow on the table and rested her cheek upon her
hand.

‘It’s very difficult,’ she said. ‘I had to give you the background,
because without it you wouldn’t understand. About three months ago I got
an anonymous letter. Of course, I’ve had them before, but it was
different—’

‘I hope you kept it, Miss Treherne.’

Rachel shook her head.

‘Oh, no, I destroyed it at once. And it wouldn’t have helped you. It was
just words cut out of a newspaper and stuck on to the commonest white
writing-paper. There was no beginning and no signature. It said, “You
have had that money long enough. It is other people’s turn now.” ’

‘Did it come by post?’

‘Yes—with a London postmark. That was on August the twenty-sixth. A
week later there was another, very short. It said, “You have lived long
enough.” And a week later again a third letter, “Get ready to die.” ’

Miss Silver said, ‘Dear me! And you did not keep any of them. What a
pity. How were the envelopes addressed?’

Rachel Treherne moved, sat back in her chair, and said,

‘That is the strange part of it. The address in each case had been cut
from a letter which I had already received.’

‘You mean the envelope was an old one?’

‘No, not the envelope. But a couple of inches with my name and address
had been cut from a letter which had come to me through the post and
gummed on to a new envelope.’

‘From what letters were they taken?’

‘The first from a letter addressed by my sister Mabel, Mrs Wadlow, the
second from a letter from a cousin, Miss Ella Comperton, and the third
from another cousin, a young girl, Caroline Ponsonby. But of course it
had nothing to do with them. Their letters had reached me and been read,
and the envelopes thrown aside.’

Miss Silver said, ‘I see—’ She went on knitting. When she thought the
pause had lasted long enough she spoke. ‘I would rather hear the whole
story before we examine the details. I suppose you did not come here
just to tell me about those letters. There has been something further—’
The pause extended itself. Miss Silver continued to knit.

In the end Rachel Treherne managed two words.

‘Something—yes—’

‘Then will you please tell me about it.’

Miss Treherne dropped her brow upon her hand in such a fashion as to
screen her eyes. When she spoke, it was in a low, even voice.

‘A day or two after the last letter I had a narrow escape from falling
downstairs. I had been washing my dog, and I was carrying him. I didn’t
want him to shake himself until I could get him downstairs, so I was
hurrying. And just as I came to the top step my own maid, Louisa Barnet,
caught me by the arm. “Oh, Miss Rachel!” she said, and she pulled me
back. We have been together since we were children and she is very
devoted to me. I could see that she was white and shaking. She held on
to me and said, “You’d have got your death if I hadn’t stopped you. I
nearly got mine coming up, but you going down and your hands taken up
with Neusel—oh, you wouldn’t have had a chance!” I said, “What do you
mean, Louie?” and she said, “Look for yourself, Miss Rachel!” ’

‘And what did you see?’ enquired Miss Silver in an interested voice.

‘The stairs go down in a long, straight flight from a half-way landing.
They are of oak and uncarpeted. I was on the landing when Louisa stopped
me. I don’t allow the stairs to be too highly polished, but when I
looked I could see that the first three treads were like glass. Louisa
had just come up. She said her feet went from under her as if she had
been on ice. She came down on her hands and knees, and just saved
herself by catching at one of the banisters. With the dog in my arms I
should have been quite helpless. I mightn’t have been killed, but I
should certainly have been very badly hurt. The housemaid is a local
girl, steady and not too bright. She said she had done the stairs just
as usual.’ Rachel Treherne gave the ghost of a laugh. ‘I’ve never had to
complain of her polishing anything too much!’

‘And when did you come up those stairs yourself—or when had anyone else
been up or down?’

‘Not all the afternoon so far as I know, but I didn’t want to make a
fuss or ask questions. The house was full. I was in my room writing
letters. My sister was resting. The girls were somewhere in the garden.
Everyone else was out. I finished washing Neusel at half-past four, and
I shouldn’t think anyone had come up or down since three o’clock.’

‘Plenty of time to polish three steps,’ observed Miss Silver.

Rachel Treherne made no answer, but after a moment she went on speaking.

‘I shouldn’t have thought of it again if it hadn’t been for the letters.
I tried very hard not to attach any importance to it, but I couldn’t get
it off my mind. You see, the stairs would be done before breakfast, and
if they had been like that all day, someone would have slipped on them
long before half-past four. But if they were polished in the afternoon
when everybody was out of the way, then it was done on purpose to make
someone fall. And after those letters I couldn’t help thinking that I
was the someone. I couldn’t get it off my mind.’

‘What polish had been used? Could you tell?’

‘Oh, yes. It was some the housekeeper got to try—a new stuff called
Glasso, but I wouldn’t have it used on the floors because it made them
too slippery.’

There was another pause. Miss Silver laid down her knitting and wrote in
the shiny exercise-book. Then she said,

‘Is that all?’ and Rachel Treherne took her hand from her eyes and
cried,

‘Oh, no—it isn’t!’

Miss Silver gave a little cough.

‘It will be much easier if you will go straight on. What happened after
that?’

‘Nothing for about a week. Then Louisa Barnet found the curtains on fire
in my room. She beat the fire out, and there was not much damage done,
but—it couldn’t have been an accident. There was no open flame in the
room, or any way the curtains could have caught. I wasn’t in any real
danger, I suppose, but it wasn’t a pleasant thing to happen on the top
of everything else.’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked.

‘A fire is always unpleasant,’ she pronounced.

Miss Treherne sat back in her chair.

‘The worst thing happened four days ago. It is what brought me here, but
I’ve been wondering whether I could tell you about it. It’s so vile—’
She said the last words in a slow, almost bewildered manner.

Miss Silver picked up her pink ball and unwound a handful of wool.

‘It would really be much better if you did not keep breaking off,’ she
said in her most practical manner. ‘Pray continue.’

At another time Rachel Treherne would have been tempted to laugh. Even
now a flicker of humour crossed her mood. She said,

‘I know. I will tell you about it as quickly as possible. On Saturday I
did some shopping in Ledlington. One of the things I brought home was a
box of chocolates. I am the only one in the family who likes soft
centres, so I chose a good hard mixture, but I made them take out just a
few and put in some of the ones I like myself. The chocolates were the
sort that have the name stamped on them so that you can tell what you
are taking. I handed them round after dinner, and they were very good. I
had two with soft centres, and enjoyed them. I took the box up to my
room because Louisa Barnet is fond of chocolates too. She is like me,
she doesn’t care for the hard centres. She was with me when I bought
them, and I knew she would expect her share, so I told her to help
herself. She took one, and almost immediately ran into the bathroom and
spat it out. When she had rinsed her mouth she came back. She was
terribly upset. She said, “That chocolate was as bitter as gall—there’s
someone trying to harm you, Miss Rachel! You can’t get away from it.”
She brought the box of chocolates over to me, and we examined them
thoroughly. The ones with the hard centres were all right, and we put
them aside. There were about a dozen left with soft centres. Three of
these had had a little hole made in the bottom and filled up again. It
was quite cleverly done, but you could see it. I touched the filling of
one of these chocolates with my tongue, and it had a strong bitter
taste. I burnt all the chocolates that were left.’

‘A very foolish proceeding,’ said Miss Silver briskly. ‘You should have
had them analysed.’

Rachel answered with a hopeless gesture and a single word. Her hand
lifted from her knee and fell again. She said,

‘Impossible.’




                             Chapter Three


Miss Silver waited. No other words followed. She knitted to the end of
her row, and then remarked,

‘This is for Hilary Cunningham’s baby. A sweet colour—so very
delicate.’

Rachel Treherne’s dark eyes rested for a moment upon the pale-pink wool.
She said in an absent voice,

‘I didn’t know that Hilary had a baby.’

‘Not till January.’ Miss Silver began another row. ‘And now, Miss
Treherne, I think we had better proceed. I asked you to tell me three
things. Firstly, why should anyone want to kill you? You have not really
replied to this, unless your statement that you are Rollo Treherne’s
daughter, and that he has left you discretionary powers over his very
large fortune, is an answer.’

Miss Treherne said without looking at her,

‘It might be.’

‘I asked you, secondly, whether any attempt had been made on your life,
and if so, in what circumstances. To this you have replied very fully.
Thirdly, I enquired who it was that you suspected. It is very necessary
for me to have an answer to that third question.’

Rachel said, ‘I suppose so,’ and then remained silent for quite a long
time. Her hands were once more clasped in her lap. She looked down at
them, and when she began to speak she did not raise her eyes.

‘Miss Silver, I believe that I can trust you. My difficulty is this—I
do not see how you can help me unless I am frank with you, unless I tell
you everything. But that is the trouble. With the best will in the
world, one can’t tell everything. I look at the problem, at the people,
and I look at them through my own temperament, my own mood—perhaps
through my own fear, my own doubt, my own suspicion. These things do not
make for clear vision. And, not seeing clearly myself, I have to choose,
I have to select what I am going to tell you, and then I have to find
words to convey these troubled impressions to you, a stranger. You have
no check on what I tell you. You don’t know the people or the
circumstances. Don’t you see how impossible it is to give you anything
except an unfair picture?’

‘I see that you are very anxious to be fair. Now will you tell me who it
is that you suspect?’

Rachel Treherne looked up.

‘No one,’ she said.

‘And who is it that Louisa Barnet suspects?’

Rachel turned abruptly. She faced Miss Silver across the table now.

‘No one,’ she said; ‘no one person. She’s afraid for me, and it makes
her suspicious. It is because of these suspicions that I have felt bound
to come to you. I can’t go on like this, living with people, seeing them
constantly, being fond of them, and these dreadful suspicions always
there between us.’

‘I see,’ said Miss Silver. ‘If I may quote from Lord Tennyson’s poem
of _Maud_—“Villainy somewhere! Whose? One says, we are villains all.”
And again:

    “Why do they prate of the blessings of peace?
      We have made them a curse.
    Pickpockets, each hand lusting for all that is not its own.
    And lust of gain, in the spirit of Cain, is it better or worse
    Than the heart of the citizen hissing in war on his own hearthstone?”

Really very apt, I think. I fear that the lust of gain in the heart of
Cain is responsible for a great deal of crime.’

Rachel Treherne said ‘Cain—’ in a sort of whisper, and Miss Silver
nodded.

‘Impossible not to realise that it is some member of your family circle
who is suspected by Louisa Barnet, if not by yourself.’

‘Miss Silver!’

‘You had better face it. When it comes to attempted murder, it is no use
letting things slide. I am sure that you must realise this. For your own
sake, and for the sake of your relatives, the matter must be cleared up.
Your fears may be groundless. The attempt may have come from some other
quarter than the one which is causing you so much distress. We will
attack the matter courageously and see what can be done. Now, Miss
Treherne, I would like full details of your household, the members of
your family, and any guests who were staying with you at the time of
these attempts.’

Rachel Treherne looked at her for a moment. Then she began to speak in a
quiet, steady voice.

‘I have a house at Whincliff. My father built it. It is called Whincliff
Edge, and it stands, as the name suggests, on the edge of a cliff
overlooking the sea. There are very fine gardens on the landward side.
It is in fact a kind of show place, and the house is big enough to
accommodate a good many guests. I have therefore to employ a
considerable staff outside, and a housekeeper and five maids indoors. I
don’t employ any men indoors. My housekeeper, Mrs Evans, has been in the
family for twenty years—she is one of the nicest women in the world.
The maids are local girls and from no farther afield than Ledlington—I
know all about them and their families. Maids generally stay with me
until they marry. They are all nice, respectable girls. None of them
could have the slightest motive for wishing to harm me. My guests—’ She
paused, and then went on. ‘The house is often full. My father built it
not just for himself and me, but to be a rallying point for the family.
They regard it in this light, and I am very seldom alone there.’

‘You mentioned a sister, I believe.’

‘Yes—my sister Mabel.’

‘A younger sister?’

‘No, five years older. She married young, and my father made a
settlement on her then.’

‘He did not leave her anything more in his will?’

‘No.’

‘And was she satisfied?’

Miss Treherne bit her lip. She said,

‘There was no quarrel. My father did not expect his will to please
everyone, but he had his own reasons for what he did.’

Miss Silver coughed slightly.

‘People’s reasons so seldom appeal to relatives,’ she remarked. ‘Pray
continue, Miss Treherne. You said your sister was married. Has she any
family, and were they staying with you at the time of these
occurrences?’

‘Yes. Mabel is not very strong. She had been with me all through August.
Her husband, Ernest Wadlow, was coming down for the week-ends. He is a
writer—travel, biography, that sort of thing. Their two children were
also coming down for the week-ends. Maurice, who is twenty-three, is
reading for the Bar, and Cherry, who is nineteen, is engaged in having a
good time. The other guests were my young cousin, Richard Treherne, who
is a grandson of my father’s brother; a first cousin on my father’s
side, Miss Ella Comperton—she has a little flat in town, but she is
always very pleased to get away from it; a first cousin on my mother’s
side, Cosmo Frith; and his young cousin and mine, Caroline Ponsonby—’

‘One moment,’ said Miss Silver. ‘Which, if any, of these relatives were
staying with you on the dates upon which you received the three
anonymous letters?’

‘None of them,’ said Rachel Treherne, ‘except my sister Mabel. She was
with me all through August and most of September, but the others only
came down for the week-ends.’

Miss Silver put down her knitting and took up a pencil.

‘I should like those dates, if you please.’

Rachel Treherne gave them as one who has a lesson by heart.

‘The first letter, Thursday, August 26th—the second, Thursday,
September 2nd—and the third, September 9th, also a Thursday.’

‘And the incident of the polished steps?’

‘September 11th.’

‘A Saturday?’

‘Yes, a Saturday.’

Miss Silver entered these particulars.

‘And the fire in your room?’

‘The following Saturday, September 18th.’

‘And the incident of the chocolates?’

‘Last Saturday, October 30th.’

Miss Silver wrote that down, then looked up, pencil poised.

‘Nothing happened between 18th September and 30th October?’

‘No. I was away a good deal. I had no guests—’ With a sudden
realisation of what she had said, a brilliant colour flushed her cheeks.
She looked beautiful, startled, distressed. ‘You mustn’t think—’ she
began.

Miss Silver interrupted her.

‘My dear Miss Treherne, we must both think—calmly, quietly, and above
all dispassionately. No innocent person will be harmed by our doing so.
Only guilt need shrink from investigation. Innocence will be vindicated.
Pray let us continue. I have here a list of your relatives, written down
as you gave them to me—Mr and Mrs Wadlow, your brother-in-law and
sister. Mr Maurice and Miss Cherry Wadlow, their son and daughter. Mr
Richard Treherne. Miss Ella Comperton, Mr Cosmo Frith, and Miss Caroline
Ponsonby, all cousins. You have told me that none of these relatives
except Mrs Wadlow was in the house upon the dates on which the anonymous
letters were written, posted, or received by you. I should now like you
to tell me which of them was staying in the house on September 11th, the
day of the polished steps incident.’

The colour had left Rachel Treherne’s face again. She said,

‘They were all there.’

‘And the following Saturday, September 18th, when the curtains in your
room were found to be on fire?’

‘They were all there.’

‘And during the six weeks when you had no guests there were no more
occurrences of a suspicious nature?’

‘Miss Silver!’

‘Let us be dispassionate. There were, in fact, no more occurrences
during that period. But on Saturday, October 30th, there was the
incident of the chocolates. Which of these relatives was in the house on
that occasion?’

Miss Treherne repeated the phrase which she had already used twice, but
in a tone that was almost inaudible.

‘They were all there.’

Miss Silver remarked, ‘Dear me!’ turned a page, wrote a heading, and
said in a bright, matter-of-fact tone, ‘Now if you will give me a little
information about each of these relatives—just the merest outline,
comprising age, occupation, financial position—’

‘Miss Silver—I _can’t_!’

Miss Silver looked at her kindly but firmly.

‘Indeed you can, my dear Miss Treherne. It is best for us to speak quite
plainly. As matters stand, you are in continual fear of being obliged to
suspect one or other of your relations. The situation is quite
impossible, and it must be cleared up. If you withhold information, I
cannot help you. Let us continue. We will begin with your sister Mabel,
Mrs Wadlow.’




                              Chapter Four


Miss Silver’s notes:

_Mabel Wadlow_:—Age 44. Nervous semi-invalid. Reads a great many
novels—thrillers. Very fond of husband and children. Some sense of
injury over father’s will.

_Ernest Wadlow_:—Age 52. Dilettante. Traveller. Writer. Never made much
money by his books. Wife’s money not much in evidence. Miss Treherne
obviously assists them.

_Maurice Wadlow_:—Age 23. Reading for the Bar. Socialistically
inclined. Perhaps dearer to his parents than to Miss T. Anxiety on her
part to be fair to him very marked. Probably clever, bumptious young
man, too pleased with himself to please others. This merely conjecture.

_Cherry Wadlow_:—Age 19. Pretty girl. Out for a good time. Rather
giddy. Nineteen usually either too giddy or too serious.

_Ella Comperton_:—Age 49. Daughter of Rollo Treherne’s elder sister
Eliza. Spinster on small income. Small flat, small interests, small
life. Some jealousy that younger cousin should be rich woman? Miss T.’s
tone that in which we speak of someone whom we commiserate but cannot
really love.

_Cosmo Frith_:—Age 45. Another dilettante, but of a different type. All
the talents but no executive ability. Jack of all trades and master of
none. Unmarried. Fond of society, fond of pretty faces—_Wein Weib und
Gesang_. Is a first cousin on the mother’s side, and Miss T. has a good
deal of affection for him. Finances precarious.

_Caroline Ponsonby_:—Age 22. First cousin once removed of Miss T., Mrs
Wadlow, and Cosmo Frith. Miss T. has a great affection for this young
girl. Described her in v. warm voice as ‘the dearest child.’ Small
independent income.

_Richard Treherne_:—Age 26. First cousin once removed on the father’s
side, being grandson of Rollo Treherne’s young brother Maurice.
Architect. Foot on bottom rung of ladder. Ambitious. Miss T. has put a
certain amount of work in his way. From manner in which she spoke of
there being no blood relationship between him and Caroline it is clear
that she would welcome a match between them. Lord T. says, ‘In the
spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.’ Have not
noticed that November has any chilling effect. Miss T. very warmly
interested in both these young people.




                              Chapter Five


Having taken down these notes, Miss Silver sat back in her chair and
picked up the pale pink coatee.

‘There—that is over,’ she said, and began to knit. ‘And now, I am
afraid, I must ask you what financial interest these relatives have in
your death.’

Rachel Treherne met this question calmly, as one meets a long expected
shock. She said,

‘I knew you would ask me that, but it is not at all an easy question to
answer. The circumstances are very unusual. I think I told you that my
father had left me this money as a trust. He made no legal conditions as
to how I was to dispose of it, but he told me what he wanted me to do,
and I promised that I would carry out his wishes. Miss Silver, I do feel
sure that I can trust you—you have really made me feel sure about
that—but what I am going to tell you now concerns my father, and you
won’t ever speak of it to anyone, will you, or—or write it down?’

Miss Silver looked at her. Miss Silver said,

‘I will not speak of it, and I will not write it down.’

Rachel Treherne went on.

‘My father ran away with my mother. She had a little money, and he had
none. This is important, because it is what brings in my mother’s
relations. Without her money he couldn’t have made a start, and so, in
disposing of his fortune, he wished her relations to be considered on
the same footing as his own. He took her to the United States, and they
had a very hard struggle. They lost their first two children. It was ten
years before Mabel was born, and I came five years later. Then my mother
died. My father was only just getting along up till then, but the
following year he began to make money. Everything he touched turned to
gold. Oil was found on some land he had bought for a song. It made him
an immensely wealthy man. He came back to this country and died here.
The things he asked me to promise were these. It weighed on him that the
man who had been his partner in buying the oilfield had not profited
from it. There was some quarrel. The land was believed valueless. The
partnership broke up, and Mr Brent walked out. My father made a fortune,
and it weighed on him that he ought to have shared it with Sterling
Brent. He told me that he had always kept on the right side of the law,
but that what mattered when you came to die was whether you had kept on
the right side of your conscience. He had tried to find his old partner,
but he hadn’t been able to. He told me the sum that was due to him, and
he said I was never to touch it, and I was to go on trying to find Mr
Brent or his heirs. That was the first thing.’

‘You have not been able to trace Mr Brent?’

‘No. It is so long ago that I think he must be dead. If he is not traced
during my lifetime, the money is to endow a certain number of
scholarships for Americans at Oxford and Cambridge, to be called the
Brent Scholarships.’

Miss Silver gave an approving nod.

‘Mr Treherne expressed more than one wish, I think you said.’

‘Yes. The other thing that I promised is much more difficult to carry
out. He wished his money to come into the hands of those who would use
it best. He considered that in the interval between his death and mine
there would be changes in the characters and circumstances of the
possible heirs. Children would be born, young people would grow up and
marry. There might be deteriorations or improvements. There might be
deaths. He did not feel able to decide on what was to happen to his
money after another generation had passed, so he left the decision to
me. That is not so unusual, though I was very young—too young. But what
he asked me to promise was, I think, a very unusual thing. I was to make
a new will every year. He said most people made their wills and forgot
all about them. He wanted to ensure that I would keep mine up to date. I
was to go through it once a year and adjust the legacies in the light of
what had happened during that year.’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked and checked. She said,

‘Dear me—a very onerous task to lay upon a young girl.’

‘I promised, and I have kept my promise. I don’t know that I would make
such a promise today. But I was very young. I loved my father, and I
would have done anything he asked of me.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘It did not occur to your father that you might marry?’

The colour came into Rachel Treherne’s face. Not the brilliant flame of
a little while back, but a faint, becoming flush.

‘I don’t believe it did. Men are like that.’

Miss Silver was watching her.

‘And you?’

Rachel Treherne laughed a little sadly.

‘Oh, I thought about it—girls always do. But—well, since we are being
so very frank, he thought I had too much money, and I thought he had too
little courage. And after that I was much, much too busy.’

‘It would have made it all a great deal easier for you if you had had a
husband and children. But since you have no natural and undisputed
heirs, this arrangement of Mr Treherne’s must result in maintaining a
continual state of excitement and uncertainty in the family—if it is
known. Now, Miss Treherne, this is a very important question. _Is it
known?_’

Rachel Treherne frowned. The frown made her look older. She said in a
slow, vexed voice,

‘I am afraid it is known.’

‘How? Who spoke of it? Your father? You? Surely not your legal adviser?’

‘My father spoke of it to my sister. He was very ill. I’m sure he
wouldn’t have done so if he had been himself. It has always made things
very difficult for me.’

‘Most unfortunate,’ said Miss Silver. ‘And does everyone in the family
know of the arrangement?’

There was a momentary flash of humour in Rachel Treherne’s dark eyes.

‘I should think so. You see, it was a grievance, and when my sister and
her husband have a grievance, well, they like to share it. I think it is
quite safe to say that everyone in the family knows I revise my will
once a year in January. Some of them are tactful about it, some of them
resent it, the young ones treat it as rather a joke. If only they didn’t
know—’

Miss Silver took up her pencil and added a word to her notes on Mabel
Wadlow. The word was, ‘Indiscreet.’ She leaned back and said,

‘Is it possible that the terms of your present will are known?’

‘I don’t know.’

‘You must know whether there is such a possibility.’

Rachel was silent.

‘Have you at any time had a draft of your will in the house?’

‘Yes.’

‘You are not helping me, Miss Treherne. Would it have been possible for
anyone to see that draft?’

‘I suppose it would. Oh, one doesn’t think about things like that!’

‘I am sorry to distress you, but I am afraid we must think about them.
You had the draft in an unlocked drawer?’

‘No, locked. But I am careless about my keys.’

‘I see. And if I were to ask you who would chiefly benefit if you were
to die before you could make this annual revision of your will, would
you answer me?’

Rachel Treherne pushed back her chair and got up. She said,

‘No, Miss Silver, I couldn’t tell you that.’

Miss Silver remained seated. She was knitting again.

‘Do you wish me to take your case?’

Rachel Treherne looked at her. Her eyes said, ‘Help me.’ Her lips said,

‘Please—if you will.’

The needles clicked.

‘I wonder if you will take my advice,’ said Miss Silver.

Rachel’s lips parted in a sudden charming smile.

‘If I can,’ she said.

‘Go home and tell your sister that you took the opportunity of being in
town to go through your will, and that you have made considerable
changes in it this time. She will certainly inform your other relatives,
and for the present there will be no more attempts upon your life.’

All the colour went out of Rachel Treherne’s face.

‘No—I couldn’t do that.’

‘It would be a safeguard.’

‘No, I won’t do it! I won’t tell lies—it’s too degrading!’

‘Make it true then. See your lawyer, alter your will, and let your
relations know that you have done so.’

Rachel stood there silently with her hands on the table edge. She seemed
to lean on them. At last she said,

‘I will think about it. Is there anything else?’

‘Yes. I think of taking a short holiday. Can you recommend me to cottage
lodgings in your neighbourhood? I should be an acquaintance who is
friendly with the Cunninghams. It would then be quite natural for us to
meet, and for you to invite me to the house.’

‘I can invite you to stay.’

‘Without exciting remark? It is very necessary that no one should
imagine I am anything but a private visitor.’

Rachel Treherne smiled again.

‘Oh, but I am always asking people down—all sorts of people. It will be
quite easy. I like having people who can’t afford to go away, and—’ She
stopped short and coloured vividly.

But Miss Maud Silver was not at all offended.

‘I shall do very well as a gentlewoman of restricted means,’ she
observed. ‘Let me see—I can come down on Saturday. You can just mention
Hilary Cunningham, but I should not stress the connection. And I think
you had better call me a retired governess.’ Most unexpectedly her eyes
twinkled. ‘And that need not trouble your conscience, because it is
perfectly true. I was in the scholastic profession for twenty years.’
She got up and extended her hand. ‘I disliked it extremely. Good-bye,
Miss Treherne.’




                              Chapter Six


Miss Treherne was met at Ledlington by her very comfortable car. As she
was driven through the dark lanes she could not help thinking how secure
she must appear. Nobody who saw her drive away with a fur rug over her
knees and the steady, responsible Barlow at the wheel, could have
believed that under this appearance of safety there was a nightmare of
fear, an anguished struggle against suspicion. She looked at Barlow’s
solid back, and could hardly believe it herself.

She was glad that the house would not be full—only Mabel and Ernest,
and Caroline, who was so much the child of the house that she did not
count. She supposed that Richard might turn up, but she was always
pleased to see Richard. She was tired, but she would have a clear hour
before dinner. The thought of a hot bath was pleasant, and Louie
brushing her hair.

She came into the hall, and found it full of people. Ernest, Mabel,
Richard, Caroline, and Maurice and Cherry who had apparently just
arrived and wished to dine but not to sleep, because they had to get
back to town.

‘And this makes quite a good road-house, darling.’ Cherry’s light,
fleeting laugh had no more warmth than the term of endearment which she
applied to everyone she met. Her prettiness had something brittle about
it—the very fair hair with a sugar-loaf cap crammed on amongst its
curls, the very thin hands with their pointed blood-red nails, the
painted arch of the lips. As always when she saw them together, Rachel’s
eyes went to Caroline, who came forward, kissed her, and said in that
slow, soft voice of hers,

‘Are you quite frozen?’

‘No, not quite. How many of you are sleeping here? I suppose Mrs Evans
knows. Cherry, you and Maurice had much better stay. Barlow says the
roads will be dangerous in another hour—it’s freezing on the melted
snow.’

Mabel Wadlow turned round with her hand on her son’s arm. She was a
small woman, and had once been as fair as Cherry, but her skin had gone
lined and sallow, and her hair as colourless as dried grass. It had
something of the same off-greenish tint. She had a high, fretful voice.

‘That’s what I’ve been saying,’ she complained. ‘And perhaps Maurice
will listen to you. Of course what I say doesn’t matter to anyone.’

Maurice said, ‘Oh, come!’ and slipped an arm about her waist. He had the
same small, regular features as his sister, the same rather near-set
eyes; but whereas Cherry had seen to it that her lashes were a good
half-dozen shades darker than her hair, his were still as sandy as
nature had made them. He wore a small struggling moustache, and
occasionally threatened the family with a beard. He was at the moment
quite determined to throw up a legal career in favour of politics. He
hoped to induce his aunt to finance this change of plan, but up to date
he had found her very unresponsive. He said,

‘Well, I would like to have a talk with you, Rachel.’

Rachel Treherne said ‘Presently’ in rather a weary voice.

‘You’ve missed Cosmo,’ said Mabel Wadlow. ‘He was seeing someone in
Ledlington. He came out here for tea. Oh, and Ella rang up and wanted to
know if she could bring a friend over to lunch—you know, that Mrs
Barber she stays with. They came over in Mrs Barber’s car. I don’t know
how all these people afford cars, I’m sure.’ Mrs Wadlow’s tone suggested
that this was a personal grievance.

Rachel felt a faint thankfulness at having missed Mrs Barber—one of
those people who are obsessed with the excellence of their own good
works and are forever thrusting them down your throat. But it appeared
that she had rejoiced too soon. Ella Comperton proposed transferring
herself from Mrs Barber’s cottage to Whincliff Edge in time for lunch
next day, and Mrs Barber would drive her over. She couldn’t stay to
lunch, but she would drive her over. Mrs Barber therefore had not been
completely avoided. One might perhaps be out shopping, or taking Neusel
for a walk. And by the way, where was Neusel?

She had reached the staircase, when with a scurry and a rush a black and
tan dachshund precipitated himself down the stairs, giving tongue as he
came. When he actually reached her his screams became frantic. He
nuzzled an adored ankle, shrieked on a high top note, took a fond bite
at a restraining hand, moaned, screamed again, and snatching a glove,
raced off with it ahead of her.

‘I can’t think how Rachel can bear that noisy dog,’ said Mabel Wadlow,
with her hand to her head. ‘Oh, dear—just listen to him! Now, Maurice,
it’s quite settled that you stay. No, Cherry, it is not the slightest
use your making that sort of face. I know no one pays any attention to
me, but perhaps you’ll listen to your father. Ernest, tell Cherry that
it is all settled, and that they are to stay. And now I really do think
we should all go and dress.’

Cherry Wadlow looked across to where Richard Treherne was reading a
letter. She laughed and said,

‘Richard isn’t staying. Like to drive me up to town, Dicky? You’re not
one of the nervous ones.’

Richard Treherne looked up—a dark, strongly built young man with
glasses. His best friend could not have called him handsome, and when he
frowned as he was doing now he looked formidable, but his voice when he
spoke was a remarkably pleasant one.

‘Cherry darling, when you call me Dicky I am liable to an attack of
homicidal mania. Just as well I am staying here, because if you did it
when we were alone together in a car, there might be a nasty accident.’

‘In fact I’m not Carrie.’

‘And if you call Caroline Carrie, I shan’t wait till we’re alone—I
shall just get on with it and murder you here and now.’

‘Might be rather amusing,’ said Cherry. ‘Car-o-line, what would you do
if a murderer offered you his heart and his blood-stained hand?’

Caroline smiled. She was one of the people who do everything with a kind
of slow grace. Richard Treherne once said that she always suggested
music off. She was not very tall, or very small, or very dark, or very
fair. She had lovely brown eyes and very beautiful hands and feet.
People who loved her loved her very much indeed. She smiled now and
said,

‘I should tell him to wash it.’ And went up the stairs without looking
back.

At her own door Rachel Treherne was met by Louisa Barnet—and Louisa in
not at all a good temper.

‘You’ll be frozen, Miss Rachel. What you wanted to go up to town for on
a day like this, the dear knows, for I don’t. And that Noisy’s got one
of your new gloves.’

Miss Treherne called in a laughing, indulgent voice,

‘Noisy! _Darling._ Not my new glove! Oh, Noisy—_please_!’

‘A good smack is what he wants if you ask me!’

‘But I don’t, Louie dear. Noisy—wicked one—give it up—there’s a
darling!’

Neusel, thus wooed, advanced with prancings and tail-waggings to drop
the glove. He leapt joyously and licked his mistress’s face as she bent
down to pick it up.

Louisa frowned severely.

‘’Orrid creature!’ she said. ‘It passes me how you can _let_ him. And I
wouldn’t have him in your room if it was me, because he’ve just been
sick.’

Rachel gazed at the sparkling eyes and healthful aspect of the sinner.

‘He looks all right.’

‘Oh, it didn’t trouble _him_!’ said Louisa darkly.

‘He’ll only scream if we shut him out.’

‘Then he can scream where he won’t be heard!’ said Louisa, picking him
up by the scruff of the neck and carrying him off.




                             Chapter Seven


After dinner when they were all in the drawing-room, Ernest Wadlow
piloted his sister-in-law to a sofa at some little distance from the
group round the fire. The last thing on earth that Rachel desired was a
_tête-à-tête_ with Ernest, but in the twenty-five years of his marriage
to Mabel she had learned the impossibility of deterring him from
anything upon which he had set his mind. In his nervous, fidgety way he
was quite indeflectable. She therefore resigned herself, and hoped that
he would say what he wanted to say and get it over. This, however, was
hoping against hope. Ernest sat down, straightened his pince-nez,
coughed, remarked upon how cold it was, and then enquired whether she
had been shopping.

Rachel leaned back, said ‘No,’ and awaited developments.

‘A very cold day for shopping,’ said Mr Wadlow.

He was a small man and precise in his dress, but for some reason he
always wore collars which appeared to be at least one size too large for
him, and which afforded the public an uninterrupted view of an unusually
large Adam’s apple. For the rest, he had the same near-set eyes as his
son and daughter, but his hair and his small worried-looking moustache
were quite dark.

Rachel said, ‘But I wasn’t shopping.’

Ernest Wadlow took off his pince-nez and began to polish the lenses.

‘Ah—business,’ he remarked. ‘You have a great deal on your hands. Very
capable hands they are too. But you mustn’t overdo it—you mustn’t
overdo it.’ He replaced the pince-nez and gazed at her solemnly. ‘You
really do look very tired.’

Rachel smiled.

‘Thank you, Ernest. When a man says that to a woman, what he really
means is that she is looking plain.’

Mr Wadlow appeared shocked.

‘My dear Rachel—what an idea! The fact is, Mabel is worried about you.’

‘She needn’t be.’

‘Ah, but she is. And it’s not at all good for her to be worried, as you
know. Only this afternoon she had a really alarming attack of
palpitations. She said then, “Rachel is overdoing it”—I am quoting her
exact words—“If she doesn’t take care of herself she will have a
breakdown.” I replied, “My dear, you know perfectly well”—again I quote
my actual words—“you know perfectly well, and your sister Rachel knows
perfectly well, that if she finds the burden of her business affairs too
much for her—she knows,” I said, “that I shall be only too glad to give
her any assistance in my power.” ’

‘I am sure of it,’ said Miss Treherne.

Mr Wadlow straightened his pince-nez. The Adam’s apple quivered.

‘ “But,” I said, “I am not one to proffer assistance or—er—advice
where it has not been asked for, or in circumstances which might expose
me to a rebuff.” ’

Rachel made a sudden movement.

‘And was Mabel having palpitations all the time you were saying this?’

Ernest Wadlow stared without offence but with some slight surprise.

‘I was relating the conversation which led up to the palpitations.’

Rachel smiled. She disliked her brother-in-law, but it was seventeen
years since she had admitted as much to anyone.

‘My dear Ernest, all this is waste of time. I am tired tonight, but I am
perfectly well. There is no need for Mabel to have palpitations on my
account, and there is no need for you to offer me your very kind help
with my business affairs. Now if that’s all you wanted to say to me—’

She knew already that it was not. The purpose for which she had been
isolated was still unfulfilled. From behind the glimmering, ever-crooked
pince-nez it maintained a steady pressure.

‘Do not go, Rachel. We are a good deal concerned—I think I may say that
we are even alarmed about Maurice. He has informed his mother and myself
that he intends to join the Communist party. I believe he wishes to go
to Russia for a year.’

‘I should encourage that. It will probably cure him.’

‘Mabel is distracted at the idea. She has been told that the sanitary
conditions are far from satisfactory, even in Moscow and Leningrad.’

‘I don’t see what I can do about it, Ernest.’

Mr Wadlow fidgeted. His Adam’s apple slid up and down.

‘If you were to see your way to assist the—er—scheme in which he was
so desirous of joining—’

‘You mean that Share-and-Share-Alike Colony?’

‘Mabel thinks it would keep him in England.’

What Miss Treherne would have liked to say was, ‘And why should anyone
suppose that I have the slightest desire to keep Maurice in England?’
But she curbed herself—she had had much useful practice in the art—and
merely observed,

‘A wild-cat scheme. I couldn’t possibly have anything to do with it.’

Mr Wadlow put out a deprecating hand.

‘Youth is always at extremes. Maurice will learn wisdom.’

‘I hope so.’

There was real anxiety in Ernest Wadlow’s voice as he said,

‘But if he goes to Russia—Rachel, we can’t feel easy about that.’

‘Perhaps he won’t go.’

‘He will if this other scheme falls through. He is quite off reading for
the Bar. He says all our legal machinery in this country is effete and
ought to be liquidated. Mabel is more than uneasy. But if he had five
thousand pounds to put into the Colony—’

A warm glow of anger brought the colour to Miss Treherne’s cheeks.

‘Five thousand pounds? My dear Ernest!’

Mabel Wadlow had come up behind the sofa. She leaned between them and
said in a low voice, but with surprising energy,

‘Oh, Rachel! It wouldn’t be anything to you, and it would keep my boy at
home.’

Rachel Treherne got up.

‘I can’t discuss it. I couldn’t possibly put money into that sort of
thing.’

Mabel’s voice began to flutter.

‘Oh, Rachel—how unkind—my boy—your own nephew! And after all—it
would only mean—advancing some of what will come to him—some day.’

The glow rose to a white heat. Rachel Treherne said,

‘You mean when I am dead. But who told you that Maurice would come in
for five thousand pounds, or five thousand pence, if I were to die
tomorrow?’ She spoke quite low.

Someone had switched on the wireless at the other end of the room. There
was talk and laughter. She looked at Mabel and Ernest, and she thought,
‘He was down for ten thousand in that draft.... _And they know it._’

She saw their faces change—Ernest just got to his feet, Mabel peeked
and tearful, leaning a little forward with her hands on the padded back
of the sofa. Her heart turned sick within her. She said quite low,

‘Please don’t let us talk of it any more,’ and turning, walked over to
the group by the fire.




                             Chapter Eight


They made room for her. Richard pulled up a chair. Caroline caught her
hand as she passed and held it against her cheek.

‘Oh, darling—you’re still cold!’

‘It’s only my hands,’ said Rachel Treherne. Her face burned. She leaned
back and screened it from the fire.

‘What were the parents talking to you about?’ said Cherry in an
inquisitive voice.

They were still talking to each other at the far end of the room. Anger
had loosened Rachel’s tongue. With a trace of surprise she heard herself
say,

‘Something that I don’t want to go on talking about.’

Cherry’s eyes sparkled maliciously.

‘Oh, then it was Maurice. And I bet they wanted you to give him
money—as usual. But if there’s any going, I’m a much more deserving
object.’

‘I said I didn’t want to talk about it, Cherry.’

Maurice was glaring at his sister. Richard Treherne struck in.

‘I saw the most extraordinary thing when I was on my way over this
afternoon. I came the cliff way, and as I passed Tollage’s place, he’d
got two men digging out a length of that old mixed hedge of his. A great
pity, for it makes a good wind-break, but his wife wants to see the sea
from her drawing-room windows. Well, the men called out to me as I
passed and showed me half a dozen adders they’d dug out, laid up for the
winter under the hedge. There was quite a crowd of village boys hanging
round on the watch to see if any more would turn up.’

Maurice laughed.

‘Pity Cherry wasn’t there,’ he said. ‘An adder would make just the right
kind of pet for her.’

Cherry rolled her eyes at Richard. She had changed into a pale green
dress with no back, no sleeves, and very little front. Her skin was as
white and as smooth as milk. She said in an affected voice,

‘Oh, I should _love_ a snake!’

Richard’s eyes met hers with rather an odd look.

‘Well, you had your chance. You must have come that way.’

‘Adders are rather dull,’ said Cherry. ‘What I should adore is one of
those long, slinky, thin ones, bright emerald green, with a forked
tongue. And it must be long enough to go three times round my arm and
then do a sort of coil round the neck.’

‘I hate snakes,’ said Caroline in her soft voice.

She was wearing green too—a bright stuff patterned with silver. It had
long sleeves, and a long skirt, and a high draped neck. Richard thought,
‘She looks like leaves coming out in the spring—with the sun on
them—all warm and fresh. Oh, Caroline _darling_!’ But on the surface he
produced a slightly cynical smile and observed,

‘Let us by all means get up a family subscription and present Cherry
with a garter snake for her next birthday.’

Cherry laughed her fleeting laugh.

‘Oh, Dicky—how wizard! But why a garter? Do I know them?’

‘I believe they are green—and—very poisonous.’

‘And that’s what you get for calling him Dicky,’ said Maurice.

The Wadlows came back into the circle at what Rachel felt to be an
opportune moment. What was the matter with Cherry that she must always
be a disturbing element?... Jealous of Caroline?... Yes, undoubtedly....
Attracted by Richard?... Perhaps.... Oh, dear—poor Cherry—what waste
of time!

She came back to hear Richard say,

‘You’ve met Gale Brandon, haven’t you, Rachel?’

‘Yes—quite a number of times. In fact I always seem to be meeting him.
But I didn’t know you knew him.’

‘Ah! He’s a prospective client. Merrivale introduced us, and he wants me
to build him a very odd kind of a house, as far as I can make out. We
had rather a disconnected sort of conversation, because Merrivale was
telling a long story about how he photographed a lion on the Zambesi. At
least, it started by being a story about a lion, but a lot of other
beasts seemed to crop up as it went along. Merrivale was holding forth
in front of the fire like he always does, and this man Gale Brandon had
me by the arm walking me up and down and telling me all about how to
build a house, so that the whole thing got rather mixed up, and my idea
that the house is going to be on the odd side may be due to the way
Merrivale’s lions and alligators and baboons and things kept bounding in
and out of the conversation. It may all turn out rather less like the
zoo than it seems at present. By the way, a further complication was
that the man Brandon kept breaking off to talk about Whincliff Edge. It
appeared to be a good deal on his mind, but whether it was the house
that he admired or you, Rachel, I couldn’t quite make out.’

Rachel smiled.

‘He’s an American, you know. I think he admires everything. He hasn’t
been over here very long, and he’s full of enthusiasm. I believe he even
admires the climate, but I expect today has shaken him there.’

‘I’ll tell you something he doesn’t admire,’ said Richard, ‘and that is
our Louisa. He asked me in his ingenuous manner why you had had a
vinegar plant installed.’

Cherry giggled. Mabel Wadlow pursed her lips and murmured ‘Impertinent!’
Ernest gazed judicially through his tilted lenses and pronounced,

‘Really most offensive. He shouldn’t have said that.’

With the cold light of controversy in his eye Maurice intervened.

‘Nobody could possibly like Louisa—she’s a thoroughly disagreeable
woman. But that is not her fault—it’s the fault of your damned
capitalism. You take one person, and you give them money, power,
position, authority. You take another—’

Caroline’s eyes danced suddenly. She leaned to Richard and said at his
very ear, ‘He’s going to call Louisa a wage-slave—I feel it in my
bones,’ and even as she said it, Maurice did.

‘You make her a wage-slave, relying for her very bread upon a condition
of servile dependency—’

Cherry’s laugh rang out.

‘Well, I shouldn’t have called Louisa _servile_,’ she said, and for once
everyone agreed with her.

‘Louisa is dreadfully rude,’ said Caroline. ‘Even to Rachel. Even to
Noisy—isn’t she, adored angel?’

Neusel had the middle of the hearthrug. The upper and lower chests
having been sufficiently toasted, he had just turned over. A pleasing
warmth now played upon the spine. The melting note in Caroline’s voice,
and what he felt to be her very proper form of address, induced him to
lift one eyelid slightly and give a very faint twitch to the end of the
tail. He then relapsed into an ancestral dream in which he bearded a
vast archaic badger in its lair and slew it.

Rachel Treherne laughed rather ruefully.

‘Louisa can be rude,’ she said. ‘But she thinks it’s good for us, and
she is really devoted.’

Caroline shook her head.

‘To you, darling, but not to us—definitely. She simply hates us.’

‘Oh, Caroline!’

‘She would like to take you away to a desert island and wait on you hand
and foot—it sticks out all over her.’

‘And finish up by dying for you in some highly spectacular way,’ said
Richard.

Rachel laughed, but there was a troubled look in her eyes. She changed
the subject, and the talk drifted away to winter sports and to a girl
called Mildred that Cherry had met at Andermatt who was engaged to a
fabulously rich young man called Bob. They were to be married some time
early in December, and Cherry was to be a bridesmaid.

‘And we shall have to give her a wedding present, I suppose,’ said Mabel
Wadlow in her discontented voice. ‘She’s got everything she wants, and
she’s marrying a man who’s got more than he knows what to do with, but I
suppose we shall have to try and think of something.’

‘I should love to give her a diamond spray from Woolworth’s,’ said
Cherry. ‘I should adore to see her face when she got it. I say, Maurice,
let’s do it anonymously. I’ve got an old old case of Cartier’s and we
could put it in that.’

‘And who’s been giving you a brooch from Cartier’s?’ said Maurice. ‘And
where is it anyhow?’

‘Darling, I pawned it immediately—what do you think?’

‘Cherry!’ Mabel Wadlow fluttered with anxiety. ‘What is all this? I
insist upon knowing.’

Cherry laughed.

‘Darling, if you’re going to come over all maternal, I’m off.’

‘Cherry, answer your mother!’ said Ernest.

She laughed again.

‘What a fuss! Bob gave me a brooch, I pawned it, and that’s all there is
about it.’

‘But, Cherry—’

‘And I’m not the only person who knows the way to a pop-shop—am I,
Car-o-line? The bother is they always do you down. What did they give
you on your diamond ring, Carrie?’

Caroline did not speak. She looked at Richard. He said,

‘You haven’t told us what you got for your brooch.’

‘About a quarter of what it was worth,’ said Cherry. ‘Quite a bit of
luck my meeting Caroline—wasn’t it? She went out as I came in, and the
man showed me her ring, but he wouldn’t tell me what he’d given her for
it.’

Richard smiled agreeably.

‘Nor will she,’ he said.




                              Chapter Nine


Rachel Treherne went to her room with a tired and heavy heart. The
thought of going to bed and forgetting all about the family for seven or
eight hours was a pleasant one, but on the other side of the night there
would be another day, in which she foresaw an interview with Ernest,
several interviews with Mabel, a talk with Maurice, a talk with Cherry,
a talk with Caroline. Ernest would press her to produce the capital for
Maurice’s anti-capitalist crusade. Mabel would weep, flutter, reproach
her, and probably have palpitations. Maurice would deliver a lecture on
communism. And Cherry—no, she didn’t really see herself talking to
Cherry. Let Mabel deliver her own lecture on the impropriety of
accepting valuable jewellery from a young man who was engaged to be
married to somebody else.

Caroline—oh, Caroline was different. She must find out why the child
should have pawned her mother’s ring. All Rachel’s thoughts softened as
they dwelt on Caroline.

She found Louisa in a grimly silent humour. It was no use forbidding her
to wait up, yet to be late was to incur a gloomy frown. Her dress was
thrown upon a hanger and thrust fiercely into a wardrobe, but when
Rachel said, ‘You seem tired, Louisa. Go to bed—I shan’t want anything
more,’ words came out with a rush.

‘Oh, I know you’d be glad enough to send me away, and there’s those that
’ud be glad enough to see me go. Right down on their bended knees they’d
be, and thanking the devil if I was out of the house and gone for good
and no one to stand between you and them!’

Rachel, sitting at her dressing-table, saw the dark face work. She
turned a little and said in a gentle, weary voice,

‘Louie, I’m very tired. Not tonight—_please_.’

Louisa caught her breath in something between a sob and a sniff.

‘You won’t be warned, Miss Rachel. You’re angry with me because I see
clear, and because I try to warn you. Not tonight—and tomorrow it’ll be
not today, and so it’ll go on until they’ve got their way and it’s too
late, and then there’ll be nothing left for me but to go and throw
myself over the cliff.’

‘Oh, Louie!’

‘Don’t you think I’d do it? Don’t you know I’d do it if harm was to come
to you, Miss Rachel?’

Rachel Treherne got up.

‘Louie, I really am too tired for this sort of thing tonight. Just go
and call Neusel—Mr Richard was letting him out for me. And then you had
better go to bed.’

To her relief, Louisa obeyed. She stalked to the door and opened it, but
before she had time to go out there was a joyous rush of feet and Neusel
arrived with all the delirious excitement of one who achieves reunion
with the beloved object after incredible exertions. He tore about the
room, uttered several ear-piercing barks, dragged all the bedding out of
his basket, and finally flung himself down upon his back on the
hearthrug, where he abandoned himself to an ecstasy of wriggling
punctuated by short screams.

‘Like as not he’ll be sick in the night,’ said Louisa.

Rachel went down on her knees and gathered him up. Here at least was one
who gave all and demanded nothing in return. At the moment she felt a
great deal more warmly towards Neusel than she did towards Louisa. He
laid his head upon her shoulder, gazed at her with melting brown eyes,
and then with a sudden wriggle was out of her arms and sniffing eagerly.

‘What is it, Noisy?’ said Rachel.

He was standing quite still now about a yard away, tail and flanks
quivering, ears pricked, and eyes intent. At the sound of her voice he
threw her a rapid glance and whined.

‘Noisy, what is it?’

He whined again, snuffed, and ran to the bed, where he stood on his hind
legs and pulled at the bedclothes.

Rachel got up and began to collect his bedding.

‘Certainly not!’ she said. ‘You don’t sleep on my bed, you little
wretch. Come along, Noisy—you’ve got a lovely basket of your own.’ She
patted it invitingly as she spoke.

But Neusel had begun to bark at the top of his voice. She turned, to see
Louisa on the far side of the bed. She had an odd startled look on her
face.

‘There’s something wrong, Miss Rachel.’

Rachel said ‘Nonsense!’ But the dog was leaping, yelping, barking. As
she spoke, he tore at the sheet with his teeth, and barked, and tore
again.

Louisa Barnet took hold of the bedclothes in her strong bony hands and
stripped them back—eiderdown, blankets, and upper sheet. They came down
on the carpet with a soft thud. She let them fall, and sprang back with
a scream and a ‘Lord have mercy!’

Rachel did not scream, but she turned cold from head to foot. At the
bottom of the stripped bed lay her new hot water bottle, green to match
the furnishings of the room. But on either side of it there was a
something—a coiled something that was not green, but brown. She looked
with quite unbelieving eyes and saw one of the coils move and a flat
head rise a little way and stay as if it hung on the air. Neusel with a
run and a flying leap had landed at the pillow end of the bed. Louisa
screamed again.

Neusel sprang in, bit savagely and sprang back—and in and back, and in
and back again, teeth clicking, ears flapping, every movement swift and
deadly as a snake’s own. It was all over in the time it would take to
draw half a dozen breaths, but Rachel did not breathe at all. At least
she thought she had not breathed until Neusel jumped down and ran to
her, head up and eyes sparkling with pride. Then she filled her lungs
and went down on her knees to take him in her arms and look him
over—because if he had been bitten—if he had been bitten—her dear
little Noisy—

She looked up, to find Louisa standing over them ashy pale.

‘He’s not hurt, Louie. Oh, Louie—my clever, clever little boy! Are they
dead?’

‘The two of them,’ said Louisa. ‘Dead as doornails. I’ll say that for
him, he was quick. In and out again before you could say Jack Robinson,
and them teeth of his clicking!’

Rachel shuddered. She restrained the joyous pride with which Neusel
frisked and barked about her, and got to her feet again. The brown coils
lay inert and lifeless. Not a ripple stirred them. Louisa said in a
sharp whisper,

‘They’re dead. And it might have been you! Who put them there, Miss
Rachel?’

Rachel stood looking.

‘I don’t know.’

‘Someone that wished you dead, Miss Rachel—you can’t get from it. Who
is it that would like to see you dead, and have what’s yours?’

Rachel did not turn her head. In an odd stiff voice she repeated the
words she had just used.

‘I don’t know.’

Louisa Barnet went over to the hearth and picked up the tongs. She said
just over her breath,

‘I could name some—but you wouldn’t believe me.’

Rachel shuddered again.

‘How can I believe a thing like that?’

The dark, grim face worked.

‘You’d best, Miss Rachel.’ She came over to the bed and picked up one of
the dead snakes with the tongs. ‘You can believe your own eyes, can’t
you? Someone brought these adders and put them in your bed—and that’s
no love-gift.’

She went over to the fire, dropped the limp coil into the heart of it,
and went back to pick up and dispose of the second snake.

Rachel watched her with a dazed look.

‘Are they adders?’ she said rather faintly. ‘They were talking about
adders downstairs tonight. Richard said Mr Tollage was digging out his
hedge. The men found a lot of adders in the bank.’

Louisa Barnet thrust at the fire with the tongs and dropped them back
upon the hearth.

‘Mr Richard?’ she said. ‘Oh, yes—he’d know, no doubt.’

Strength came back to Rachel Treherne—strength, and anger.

‘Louie!’

‘Oh, no—you won’t hear a word! Him and Miss Caroline can do no wrong by
you—not if you was to see them with your own eyes.’ She came suddenly
near and caught a fold of Rachel’s maize-coloured dressing-gown between
her hands. ‘Oh, my dear—you don’t believe, and you won’t believe, and I
mustn’t say a word. But what would you feel like if it was the one you
loved best in all the world—if there was them that was creeping and
crawling and going all ways to gain their own ends, and you only a
servant that nobody wouldn’t listen to nor take any notice of whatever
you said and whatever you did? Oh, my dear, wouldn’t it wring your heart
same as mine’s been wrung? Oh, the Lord, he knows how it’s been wrung,
and he’ll forgive me if you won’t!’

Rachel put her hand on the woman’s shoulder and spoke gently.

‘Louie, we’re both upset. Don’t let us upset each other. There are
things I can’t listen to—there are things you mustn’t say. But that
doesn’t mean I won’t do something about this. I won’t just shut my eyes
and go on blindly. I promise you that—I promise you. And now I’d like
clean sheets, so there’s something you can do whilst I’m undressing.’

When she was alone, Rachel Treherne sat a long time in the armchair by
the fire. In his basket Neusel slept the sleep of the virtuous and
victorious. The noise of water and the noise of wind came to her ears
with their accustomed sound. Here, on the edge of the cliff, there were
very few days or nights so still that this wind and water music was
wholly absent. When she was away, she missed it. When she was here, it
was the first thing she heard in the morning, and the last at night. It
could weep with her when she wept, or charm her fears away. But tonight
it had sombre undertones. The wind was a desolate voice. The sea dragged
on the shingle under the cliff.

She got up at last and looked at the clock. The hands stood at midnight.
She felt a momentary startled wonder that so little time should really
have passed. She felt she had been far, and far. So far that it was hard
to come back again. Yet it was only an hour since she had left the
drawing-room—half an hour since she had sent Louie away.

She sat on the edge of her bed and lifted the receiver from the
telephone beside it.

She got through very quickly. Miss Maud Silver’s voice sounded most
reassuringly awake and clear.

‘Yes? What is it?... Oh, Miss Treherne?... Yes—what can I do for
you?... You would like me to come down tomorrow instead of Saturday?...
Yes, I will certainly do so. You need say no more—I quite understand. I
will wire my train in the morning. Good night.’

Rachel hung up the receiver. She felt as if the burden were off her
shoulders.

She got into bed, put out the light, and stopped thinking. She slept
until Louisa came in with the tea at half-past seven.




                              Chapter Ten


Richard Treherne came through the hall on the way to breakfast. As he
passed the study door, he heard voices. The door was ajar. He pushed it
a little way, and then stopped because he heard Cherry say in a taunting
voice,

‘You should have done what you were told, Car-o-line. I said I’d tell on
you if you didn’t give me a rake-off.’

Richard waited to hear what Caroline would say.

She said nothing.

He pushed the door wider, and saw her standing at the window with her
back to him. Cherry, a little nearer, half turned from him, half turned
to Caroline, showed him a malicious profile. Her pale hair caught the
light.

‘You’d much better pay up,’ she said. ‘I expect you got at least fifty
pounds for that ring—they were whacking big stones—and if you got
fifty you can easily spare me a tenner.’

Caroline did not turn her head. She said, ‘Why should I?’ in a tone of
gentle scorn.

Cherry Wadlow laughed.

‘Because you’d better. I warned you I’d tell about the ring, and I told.
But there’s something else I can tell about too if I don’t get my little
rake-off.’

Richard came in, shut the door behind him, and crossed the floor.

‘And that’s about enough of that!’ he said. ‘Cherry, in case you didn’t
know it, blackmail is an indictable offence, and you can get quite a
long stretch of penal servitude for it.’

She put out her tongue at him like a child.

‘And a nice time your darling Caroline would have in the witness-box.
You’d love it, wouldn’t you, darling? It would be a perfect scream. “You
pawned a diamond ring, Miss Ponsonby. I believe it belonged to your
mother? You must surely have had a very strong motive for parting with
it. Oh, you wanted the money? Now perhaps you will tell us what you
wanted the money for? Ah—you don’t want to do that, I see. Very natural
indeed. You wouldn’t like to tell the Court what you wanted the money
for, would you? No, I thought not—a most natural reluctance.” There,
Dicky—that’s how it would be. Do run me in. I think it would be simply
wizard—don’t you, Carrie? Shall I tell him what you wanted the money
for?... No? All right, I’ll let you off this time, because though
revenge is sweet, I’d really rather have that tenner, so I’m giving you
time to think it over.’ She slipped her arm through Richard’s. ‘Wouldn’t
you like to kiss me good morning, darling?’

Richard would have liked to strangle her, but as he was quite sure it
would please her inordinately to think so, he curbed himself and said in
a bored tone,

‘Not amusing, Cherry. You’re out of the schoolroom now, though it’s a
bit difficult to realise it.’

He had the satisfaction of seeing her change colour. She gave his arm a
vicious pinch, dropped it, and ran out of the room. The door banged.

Caroline said, ‘It’s wicked to hate people, but I think I hate Cherry.’

‘What she wants is a daily dozen,’ said Richard—‘laid on with a good
stiff hair-brush. Maurice the same. The only comfort is they’ve got it
coming to them one way or another. Now—what’s all this about? Are you
going to tell me?’

The colour came into Caroline’s face. She said,

‘No.’

Richard took her hands in his own. He looked away from her face and down
at her up-turned palms. He said,

‘Better tell me, Caroline.’

She said ‘No’ again, but rather faintly.

‘Silly to make mysteries, my dear—_really_ silly, when it’s you and me.
Don’t you know that you can tell me anything?’

She said ‘Yes,’ and caught her breath and said, ‘Anything about me. But
this isn’t anything about me, Richard.’

‘Thank the Lord for that! But I think you’d better tell me.’

She tried to pull her hands away, and when he held them fast she threw
him a piteous look which he found hard to bear.

‘Please, Richard—I can’t. Please, Richard, let me go.’

He lifted her hands, kissed them, and let them go.

‘Well, don’t let Cherry bully you. And don’t forget I’m here. What do
you mean by letting her drag us all into a melodrama before breakfast?
It’s indecent. The emotions should never be excited before three o’clock
in the afternoon—no constitution will stand it. Come and eat cold ham
and scrambled eggs and kippers. Particularly kippers. They have a very
stabilising effect.’

Breakfast was not a particularly tranquil meal. The Wadlows, Ernest and
Mabel, had obviously cast themselves for the role of suffering martyrs,
but they did not suffer in silence. They asked for coffee in tones of
gloom, refused sugar as if it had been poison, and gazed upon Rachel at
the head of the table with a steady reproach which she found extremely
trying. Maurice sulked as openly as if he had been five years old,
whilst Cherry advertised the fact that she was in a bad temper by
jerking her chair up to the table, clattering with her knife and fork,
and pushing away her cup of tea with so violent a shove as to send half
of it into Caroline’s lap.

For a moment Rachel saw them, not as part of her family, but as four
singularly irritating and disagreeable people. It was like looking
through a tiny hole in a dark curtain and seeing a room beyond and the
people in it. A strange room, and strange people. A bright light beat on
them and showed her just how odious they were. For that brilliant half
minute she disliked them extremely, wondered why she had put up with
them for so long, and made up her mind to send them packing. Then the
hole in the curtain closed. The light was gone. The moment was over. The
Wadlows were family again. You were fond of them, you put up with them,
you could never, never, never be rid of them. Even more truly than in
the marriage service they were yours till death did you part. It was not
an enlivening thought.

Ernest ate fruit and cereal, Mabel cereal without fruit. Cherry crumbled
toast and upset her tea. Caroline ate nothing at all. The telephone was
active.

Maurice answered it the first time, and reported that Cosmo Frith was
coming over bag and baggage before lunch.

‘He might just as well live here and have done with it.’

‘So might any of us for the matter of that,’ snapped Cherry.

This was so undeniably true that no one attempted to deny it.

The telephone bell rang again. This time there was a telegram. Richard
took it down, laid the message beside Rachel’s plate, and saw her change
colour. He wondered why, and then wondered whether he had been mistaken
when she said,

‘Miss Silver will be arriving this afternoon by the five-thirty. I shall
have to send Barlow to meet her. It’s my day for Nanny Capper.’

‘Who is Miss Silver?’ said Cherry, staring.

Rachel hoped she wasn’t sounding nervous. She said,

‘I don’t think any of you have met her. She’s a retired governess. Not
very exciting, I’m afraid, but I want to have her down here for a bit.’

Cherry pushed back her chair rudely.

‘Oh, why not turn the house into homes for the aged and have done with
it!’ She strolled towards the door with her hands in her pockets,
whistling. She was wearing mustard-coloured tweeds and a large
emerald-green scarf. She stopped just as she was going out of the room,
because Maurice was taking another call. He turned with the receiver in
his hand.

‘Oh! It’s for you. The faithful, or shall we say the unfaithful Bob.’

Cherry said ‘Damn!’ cast a comprehensive glare at the breakfast table,
and snatched the receiver. With her father and mother watching her, ears
pricked and eyes intent, she had to keep her own face sulkily
indifferent while Mr Robert Hedderwick said in a voice of violent
passion,

‘Cherry, you’re driving me mad!’

The Wadlows saw her eyebrows lift a little. They heard her say,

‘Why?’

The line quivered under the energy with which Mr Hedderwick told her
why. Cherry found it very difficult to go on looking sulky, because this
was all most exciting. And gratifying. The fact that Bob Hedderwick was
within a few weeks of his marriage to Mildred Ross contributed an added
thrill.

‘Cherry, I’ve got to see you!’

She said, ‘All right.’

‘Tonight—at the usual place.’

Cherry said, ‘Well, I don’t know,’ and was rewarded by another outburst.

‘I tell you I’m going clean off my head! I’ve got to see you and talk it
out! You’ve got to come! Say you will!’

Cherry said, ‘Perhaps,’ and rang off.

This was heady stuff for the breakfast table. She had the utmost
difficulty in not looking as pleased as she felt. She poured herself out
another cup of tea and sipped at it to hide a lurking smile. Meanwhile
the telephone bell was ringing again. Richard spoke over his shoulder,
his palm against the mouthpiece.

‘Personal, private and particular for you, Rachel. G. B. on the line.’

The young people’s complaint about having the telephone in the
dining-room came home with force to Rachel as she took the receiver and
heard Mr Gale Brandon say with his agreeable American accent,

‘Miss Treherne?’

Of course there was an extension in her bedroom, but it would look so
marked if she switched over. The family would think—Mr Brandon would
think.... She was particularly anxious to avoid anything that looked as
if she were making a mystery. No, it wouldn’t do at all. She said,

‘Miss Treherne speaking.’

Gale Brandon’s voice became eager.

‘Oh, now, Miss Treherne—I wonder if you would do me a favour. I don’t
really like to ask you, but I know you’ve got a very kind heart, and if
you’ll think that here I am on the wrong side of the Atlantic for
getting help from any of my own women folk, well, maybe that kind heart
of yours will urge you very strongly to step into the breach and help me
choose my Christmas presents.’

Rachel heard the pleased note in her own voice as she said,

‘But it’s much too early. I haven’t even begun to think about mine.’

Gale Brandon’s voice sounded pleased too. She thought, ‘He’s pleased
with himself,’ and tried to bang the door on that other thought, ‘He’s
pleased with me.’

He laughed and said, ‘If I don’t start early I don’t start at all—I
just stall and quit. Now if you will come into Ledlington with me this
morning—I don’t know how much we could do there, but we can make a
start.’

‘Well, I don’t know.’

His voice took a pleading tone.

‘I shall be just lost if you won’t. You know, I do lose my head in a
store, and I am liable to send a pair of skates to my bedridden Uncle
Jacob, or the latest thing in lipsticks to my Aunt Hephzibah. What I
need is guidance, and that’s a fact. And if I wait for a day when you’re
not busy, Christmas will be gone and the next one coming along, so won’t
you just cut out all those things you were going to do and let me call
for you in half an hour’s time?’

Several bright thoughts arrived in Rachel’s mind simultaneously and made
quite a cheerful explosion there. If she went out with Gale Brandon,
Ernest and Mabel would not be able to talk to her. Maurice would not be
able to talk to her, and she could put off talking to Caroline. She
would also avoid Louisa, who was looking like a thunder-cloud. And she
could make quite certain of being out when Mrs Barber brought Ella
Comperton over.

She said with alacrity, ‘Well, I oughtn’t to, but I will,’ and hung up.




                             Chapter Eleven


Gale Brandon drove a fast car very fast indeed. He said he had come to
live at Whincliff because it offered the best selection of roads without
any speed limit which he had so far been able to discover. There was no
limit between Whincliff and Ledlington, yet on this particular morning
he showed a disposition to dally.

‘How many presents do you want to get, and what sort of people are they
for? Have you really got an Uncle Jacob and an Aunt Hephzibah?’

He turned his head to smile at her. A big, good-looking man in the early
forties, with a ruddy tan on his skin and a bright dancing something in
his eye—zest and humour always, anger sometimes. He said,

‘I certainly have, and they’ve got to have presents. Uncle Jacob likes a
good crime story, so he’s easy—seven murders in the first chapter, and
a fair average kept up all through. But Aunt Hephzibah has me beat. She
don’t read, she don’t drink, and she don’t smoke. I once gave her a
bottle of scent, and it was a near thing whether she cut me out of her
will. It’s just a relaxation for her altering her will, so I have to be
very careful. Now, Miss Treherne, what makes you look like that?’

She had thought his eye was on the road.

‘I think I hate talking about wills,’ she said.

‘Then we won’t talk about them. Would you say it would be safe to send
Aunt Hephzibah a handbag?’

‘She’ll have to pay duty on it, won’t she?’

Mr Brandon looked a good deal cast down.

‘Well—if I hadn’t forgot all about the duty! And would she be mad!
Didn’t I say I needed guidance? Look what you’ve saved me from already.’

Rachel laughed.

‘That’s my horrid practical mind. I’ve had to learn to be practical, you
know—it didn’t come naturally. But if you can’t get your presents, why
are we going on?’

‘Oh, I’ve got friends this side the Atlantic too. I’ll have to let a
cousin of mine see about the old folks at home, but there’ll be plenty
we can be getting along with this morning. To start off with, there’ll
be chocolates and toys for about a dozen children....’

They did the toys and chocolates very successfully, and then sat down
and took stock of their purchases over a cup of coffee. Mr Brandon
produced a list.

            Gloves for Peggy and Moira. 6½.
            Silk stockings for Jane. Half a dozen pairs. 9½.
            Handkerchiefs for Irene. Sheer linen. One dozen.
            Handbag for Hermione. Dark Blue. Initials.

He handed the list over. It continued on the same lines to the bottom of
the page, where there was a large question-mark on a line by itself.

‘Now that,’ said Mr Brandon, ‘is what I wanted to ask you about. All
these other things, they’re for the wives and daughters of very good
friends of mine over here. I’ve known most of them a long time, and I
know just what sort of things they’ll like, and just what sort of things
it would be all right for me to give them. They’re what I should call
friends-of-the-family presents—the kind of thing that means “I wish you
a happy Christmas, and I hope you’ll have a good time.” But there’s
another present I want to give that I’m not so sure about. It’s for a
woman, and it’s for a woman I’ve known all her life. I’d like to give
her something that’s really worth while—something she can wear. But I
don’t want to offend her or have her think I’m presuming.’

Rachel Treherne felt a sort of cold shock which she could not account
for. She had the momentary feeling that if she could account for it she
would be rather horrified. She said at once,

‘You’ve know her all her life?’

‘Something like that.’

‘And how well do you know her?’

His eyes danced.

‘Pretty well. Better than she knows me.’

‘But—are you friends? You see, I can’t say what you can give her unless
I know just how friendly you are.’ She felt as if she were excusing
herself, and changed colour. ‘Do you know, you are making me sound
inquisitive. I don’t really think I can advise you at all.’

He leaned to her across the little table.

‘Now look here, Miss Treherne, you couldn’t sound inquisitive to me
whatever you said. But this is rather a delicate matter.’

Rachel felt her cheeks burn.

‘After all, we’re almost strangers,’ she said.

If she had expected Gale Brandon to be rebuffed, she was disappointed.
He said in an earnest voice,

‘Oh, I don’t feel that way at all, and I’d appreciate your advice. You
see, I have a very great affection and respect for this lady—in fact I
love her.’

Rachel said, ‘Does she love you?’

‘I don’t think so. I’ve never asked her.’

‘Are you going to ask her?’

‘Oh, yes, when the right time comes.’

She smiled, and wondered why her lips felt stiff.

‘Well, Mr Brandon, if you want my advice, I should say wait till you
have told her how you feel. Then you will know whether you can give her
this present.’

He took some time to think about that. Then he said,

‘Well, I had a kind of idea that I would like the present to tell her.
Do you get what I mean? I thought I’d make it something she wouldn’t
take unless she meant to take me with it. Then if she did take it, I’d
know.’

Rachel laughed a little.

‘That might be very dangerous, Mr Brandon. I’m afraid there are women
who would take your present and think no more about it.’

He shook his head.

‘She wouldn’t do that.’

They bought the friends-of-the-family presents first. Rachel could not
help a quick surface amusement over the very definite likes and dislikes
which Mr Brandon exhibited. So far from needing her help, he knew
exactly what he wanted, and made it quite plain that he must have it.
The shade of the stockings, the stitching on the gloves, the initials
for bag and handkerchiefs—he had his mind made up at a glance, and
though he deferred to her charmingly he always took his own way. But
when they crossed the Market Place to Mr Enderby’s old dark shop his
manner changed, lost its certainty. He dropped back a good twenty years
and showed her the anxious, eager boy he must have been then.

The Market Square is the centre of Ledlington, and in the centre of the
Market Square stands the statue of Sir Albert Dawnish of which the
townsfolk are so justly proud. They have a well-founded belief that it
can give points and a beating to any other statue in any other market
town in England, both for its own size and for that of the cheque which
paid for it. From a highly ornate pedestal Sir Albert in rigid marble
trousers gazes down upon the cradle of his enormous fortune—or, shall
we say, upon the spot where once that cradle stood. The first of the
long line of Quick Cash Stores which have made the name of Dawnish a
household word was pulled down some years ago, but the statue of Sir
Albert is good to last as long as the Market Square.

Mr Enderby’s old shop is behind Sir Albert’s back. He would not in any
case think it worth looking at. It has, indeed, a somewhat rickety air,
as if its four hundred years had at last begun to tell upon its
constitution, but the oak beams are still staunch, and the brickwork
holds. About a hundred and fifty years ago Josiah Enderby the third
threw out a bow window the better to exhibit his goods. This solitary
concession to the modern spirit of display remains as Josiah left it.
Nothing else has emerged from the sixteenth century. The shop is still
very nearly as dark, stuffy, and inconvenient as it must have been when
Elizabeth was on the throne. The old oak boards are bare to the
customer’s foot. There is no electric light and no counter. A long
trestle table black with age serves Mr Thomas Enderby as it served his
forebears. In spite of these drawbacks, or perhaps because of them, the
shop is a famous one. The Enderbys have always had two assets, absolute
probity and a most astonishing flair for stones. Thirty years ago Tobias
Enderby was considered the finest judge of pearls in Europe. His son
Thomas runs him close. People with great names and deep purses have sat
at that trestle table and watched an Enderby—Josiah, Tobias,
Thomas—bring out his treasures for their inspection. Not always easy to
buy from, the Enderbys. A few years before the war a Personage who has
since lost the throne which he then adorned made the mistake of speaking
rudely to Tobias. He wished to buy the Gonzalez ruby, once the property
of Philip II of Spain, and come by devious ways to the Market Place in
Ledlington. The Personage offered a fabulous price. He offered to double
any other offer which the Enderbys might receive. But he also offered
them some discourtesy. Nobody seems to know quite what it was, but old
Tobias gazed past him with an abstracted air and murmured, ‘No, sir, it
is not for sale.’

Rachel told Gale Brandon the story as they were crossing the Square.

‘It’s rather nice to feel that there are some things money won’t buy.’

He stood still under the very shadow of Sir Albert Dawnish.

‘Now, Miss Treherne, I don’t like to hear you say that. And why? Because
it sounds to me as if you were letting money get you down. You know,
you’re all right as long as you’re on top of it, but the minute you let
it get on top of you you’re done. It’s a servant, and like all servants
you’ve got to look out it doesn’t get the upper hand. Use it, work it,
don’t let it drive you, don’t let yourself think you can’t do without
it, don’t let yourself believe for a single moment that it can give you
any value you haven’t got already. It’s the other way round. It’s you
who give money its value by the way you spend it.’ He laughed suddenly
and came down on a schoolboy joke. ‘It isn’t the money that makes the
man, it’s the man that makes the money.’

‘I didn’t make mine,’ said Rachel.

‘Then somebody made it for you.’

He laughed again, and took her across the line of traffic. With her hand
on the latch of Mr Enderby’s door, Rachel said with all her heart,

‘I wish they hadn’t.’




                             Chapter Twelve


Thomas Enderby was exactly like an old grey mouse, except that a mouse’s
eyes are bright and dark, and his were veiled and of no colour at all.

There was an interchange of courtesies reminding Rachel of an old lady
she had known as a child who was wont to say with an approving nod of
her head, ‘Compliments pass when gentlefolk meet.’

The compliments having passed, Mr Brandon said something in a low voice,
from which Rachel inferred that their visit had not been without
preliminaries. With a bow Mr Enderby disappeared through a door in the
back of the shop, returning immediately with a square of black velvet
which he laid before Miss Treherne. He then disappeared again, and this
time for longer.

As she sat waiting, Rachel was aware of the romantic atmosphere. This
old house, this old room; the very chair she sat in, with its high back
and straight arms; the floor, black with age, uneven from the passing of
the generations—all made a setting for the man who had brought her here
to choose a love-gift for another woman. She was conscious of him as she
had never been conscious of a man before. His look stirred her as if it
had been a touch, and his touch ... She steadied her thought to face
what this might mean—the folly of a lonely woman who had had no time
for love and had let it pass her by; the terror of a frightened woman
groping for a hand that she might trust to; or something deeper, saner,
more steadfast.... Whichever it was, it meant pain. It meant that she
must brace herself to meet pain, to endure it, to tread it down.

The change in her feelings dazed her. She had found pleasure in Gale
Brandon’s society, in the vigour and freshness which he brought into the
family atmosphere, and in his obvious admiration for herself, but she
had never dreamed that she would feel like this because he told her that
he loved another woman.

Thomas Enderby came back with an old-fashioned box of Tonbridge ware in
his hand. It was, of course, an anachronism, but an anachronism whose
age conferred a certain respectability. He sat down at the table, pushed
his spectacles up amongst the hair which strayed across his brow, opened
the box, removed a layer of cotton wool, and took out three packages
done up in tissue paper. He had very thin, pale fingers and bloodless
nails. His hands moved in a delicate and leisurely manner as he unfolded
the paper. In the end he sat back and contemplated the three ornaments
which he had disposed upon the square of black velvet, his eyes no
longer hooded and dim, but bright with the discerning admiration of the
connoisseur.

Rachel looked too.

The oak spray came out of its wrappings first. She found it hard to take
her eyes from it—two diamond oak-leaves and three acorns, the cups
shining with brilliants, and each acorn a pearl, two white and one
black.

She said, ‘Oh, how lovely!’ and Mr Thomas Enderby agreed.

‘It was my father’s design. It was commissioned by the Duchess of
Southshire, but she died before it was completed. It took my father some
years to satisfy himself over the pearls. He never really wished to sell
his favourite pieces, so that I am afraid her Grace’s decease was rather
a relief to him. Now this chain came to us from abroad—Italian work,
made to a Russian order.’

The chain was about twenty-five inches in length. It had pale gold links
most exquisitely fine between alternate sapphires and emeralds, each
stone beautifully cut and set with diamond sparks, the whole effect one
of lightness, brilliance, and grace.

‘This of course is the finest stone,’ said Mr Enderby. He touched the
third ornament caressingly. ‘There is nothing like a ruby after all, and
this is one of the best we have had. Look at the colour!’

The ruby burned between two diamond wings—the lifted arch of an eagle’s
wings. Between the flash of them the stone seemed alive.

‘I am not, unfortunately, at liberty to give you the particular history
of this piece,’ pursued Thomas Enderby. ‘My father designed it for a
member of a royal house, and it has recently come back to us.’ He turned
to Gale Brandon. ‘Those, sir, are our three best pieces.’

Rachel felt rather dazzled. The jewels were most beautiful. They were
also most costly. She admired the romance of the gesture which would
offer one of these exquisite things as a declaration of love without any
certainty of its acceptance. But quick on this came the thought, ‘It
spoils it all to let another woman choose.’

It was at this moment that he leaned to her and said,

‘Which do you like best?’

The words struck a spark of resentment from her. She said, a thought
quickly,

‘But it isn’t what I like. I can’t choose for a woman I’ve never seen. I
don’t know what she’s like, or what she likes. Pearls are for one sort
of woman, rubies for another, and emeralds and sapphires for another
still. You’ll have to choose for yourself, Mr Brandon—I can’t help
you.’

Gale Brandon’s eyes danced with a teasing light. He looked most
extraordinarily alive in the little dark room.

‘Isn’t that too bad!’ he said. ‘But I wasn’t asking you to choose for
me. I just felt very interested to know which of Mr Enderby’s pretty
things you liked best. Because, you see, I’ve figured it out this way.
Say there’s one that I like best. Well, if you choose it too, then there
are two votes for that. Do you see what I mean?’

‘But it isn’t my vote that ought to count, because I’m quite in the
dark. Why, I don’t even know the colour of her hair.’

A smile flickered over his face.

‘Well, we’ll all be getting grey hair some day. I hope she’s going to
wear it a good long time, so it would be better to choose something
that’s going to go on looking good when she’s got those silver threads
among the gold.’

So she had golden hair.... It didn’t go a good grey as a rule.... She
said in the friendliest tone she could compass,

‘If she is fair, the emerald and sapphire chain would suit her.’

‘But I didn’t say she was fair, Miss Treherne.’

‘I thought you did. You quoted the song about silver threads among the
gold.’

‘That was a figure of speech. I certainly shouldn’t call her
fair—except in the romantic sense—and I can’t see that there is one of
these jewels that wouldn’t be mighty becoming to her. But I really would
appreciate it if you would tell me which one appeals to you, Miss
Treherne. You see, it’s the woman’s point of view I’d like to get.’

She found herself laughing a little scornfully.

‘Do you really think all women are alike?’

He laughed too.

‘It would certainly be dull if they were. But I would really like to
know which of these pretty things you do like the best. I’m interested
in your point of view. And then I’d like to know whether you like the
one that I like, and when we’ve settled that we’ll ask Mr Enderby which
is the one he’d save if his shop was burning.’

Thomas Enderby’s hand went out a little way and drew back.

An irrational gust of gaiety blew into Rachel’s mind. She put out her
own hand and touched the oak spray with its pearl acorns.

‘Oh, that’s my one. I lost my heart to it at once. But I don’t believe
Mr Enderby can bear to let it go. He’s lost his heart to it too.’

‘And I’ve lost mine,’ said Gale Brandon—‘so there are three of us.
Well, Mr Enderby—what about it? Will you let me have it—for the
loveliest and kindest lady in the world?’

‘It’s not everyone I’d let it go to,’ said Thomas Enderby.




                            Chapter Thirteen


Rachel got back to find that she had missed Mrs Barber by a comfortable
margin. Ella, meeting her in the hall, remarked on how unfortunate this
was.

‘Away yesterday, out today. I only hope, Rachel, that she won’t think
you want to avoid her. Of course quite ridiculous, because she is such
an exceptionally interesting and charming person, and I know she
particularly wanted to talk to you about slum clearance.’

Cosmo Frith, emerging from the study, demanded why any human being
should imagine that any other human being should want to talk about
slums. He slipped an arm through Rachel’s and kissed her on the cheek.

‘Well, my dear, I needn’t ask how you are. You look fine. And who was
the cavalier? Wouldn’t he stay to lunch—or didn’t you ask him? I
thought he looked pretty well pleased with himself as he drove away.’

Rachel laughed. Her colour was bright.

‘Oh, I asked him, but he had to get back. It was Mr Brandon, the
American who has taken the Halketts’ house for the winter. I thought you
had met.’

‘No. Fancies himself, doesn’t he?’

Rachel laughed again.

‘I think he fancies everything, and that includes himself. I’ve never
met anyone who enjoys things so much. We’ve been shopping Christmas
presents.’

Cosmo looked exactly like a child who hears another child praised. He
was a handsome man of forty-five. His grey hair set off a fresh
complexion and a pair of fine dark eyes with well-marked brows. His
waist measurement was rather larger than it had been a year or two ago,
and there were moments when he feared a double chin. He withdrew his arm
and said with a lift of the eyebrows,

‘Christmas presents—in November? What a nauseating idea!’

‘And why nauseating?’ enquired Ella Comperton. ‘I think this modern
fashion of laughing at Christmas is a terrible sign of the times. My
dear mother always used to say, “Ah, it isn’t the gift—it’s the loving
preparation that counts,” and we used to be set down to our Christmas
presents as soon as the summer holidays were over.’

‘Horrible!’ said Cosmo. ‘But I suppose that the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children hadn’t been invented then.’ He turned
to Rachel. ‘And what were you and Mr Brandon lovingly preparing?’

‘Chocolates, and toys, and gloves, and handbags and stockings for a lot
of young people. He didn’t really need me at all. He knew exactly what
he wanted.’

They went in to lunch. Cosmo as usual monopolised the conversation, a
good deal to the annoyance of the Wadlows and Miss Comperton. Maurice
and Cherry having departed, their parents wished to talk about them.
Ella wished to talk about slums. She had come primed from Mrs Barber,
and she wished to pose as an expert. But there was no talking against
Cosmo. He told anecdotes, and laughed at them heartily in a deep,
rollicking voice. He retailed the news which they had already read in
the morning papers. He narrated the inner history of the Guffington
divorce. He gave them the reasons which had led the ultra-particular
Lady Walbrook to give her consent to her daughter’s marriage to a very
notorious gentleman, Mr Demosthenes Ryland. He had inside information as
to the exact circumstances in which that rising star Seraphine had
broken her Hollywood contract. Not that he neglected the excellent food
with which he was served. He appeared to be able to eat and talk at the
same time.

Rachel was quite pleased to listen. She could laugh at Cosmo, but she
was very fond of him, and she was very glad to have an alternative to
the Wadlows and their young, or Ella on slums.

The evil hour was, however, only postponed. As soon as lunch was over
Mabel demanded an interview, and a very long, tearful and trying
interview it proved to be, under such headings as a Mother’s Love, a
Mother’s Anxieties, a Sister’s Heart, and, by implication, a Sister’s
Purse.

Rachel did her best to endure the Mother’s Love, to soothe the Mother’s
Anxieties, and to display the Sister’s Heart, whilst keeping a
reasonably firm hand upon the Sister’s Purse. It was all very difficult
and very, very exhausting.

When Mabel had at last been induced to lie down, there was Ernest, with
a Father’s Anxieties and a Father’s Responsibilities.

Retiring to her room after this encounter, Rachel found herself pursued
by her cousin Ella, tall, raw-boned, and purposeful, with a small
attaché-case full of pamphlets and photographs.

‘Most disappointing that you should have missed Mrs Barber. I am a very
poor substitute, but I promised her faithfully that I would do my very
best to interest you.’

She was still there when Louisa Barnet came in to draw the curtains. She
rose regretfully and began to pack the attaché-case.

‘The time has simply flown—hasn’t it? I must go and wash my hands for
tea, but I’ll leave you those pamphlets. Dear me, Rachel, you look quite
tired. I hope you didn’t do too much this morning. Most inconsiderate of
Mr Brandon, I call it.’ The door closed behind her.

Louisa rattled the curtain rings.

‘Fair wore out is what you look, Miss Rachel. And it’s not what you did
this morning that’s to blame neither.’

She got rather a wan smile as she turned.

‘Well, I don’t think it is, Louie. You know what Miss Ella is. She’d got
those papers on her mind, and she was bound to show them to me.’

Louisa looked angrily at the pamphlets.

‘What’s it now? She doesn’t stick to nothing, does she? Last time it was
lepers, and the time before it was something to do with circuses, and
the time before that it was naked heathen cannibals. And what I say is,
if they was made that way, then it was for some good purpose, and it’s
not for us nor yet for Miss Ella to go flying in the face of Providence.
Interferingness—that’s what it is, and you can’t get from it!’

Rachel bit her lip.

‘But, Louie, Providence didn’t make lepers or cannibals, and He
certainly didn’t make slums.’

Louisa gloomed.

‘That’s what you say, Miss Rachel. I’ve got my own ideas, and I’m not
the only one. And it’s no good talking about lepers and cannibals to me
when I see you looking as white as a sheet, and saucers under your eyes
for all the world as if they were full of ink. You’ll never be going
over to see Mrs Capper tonight?’

‘Oh, yes—she counts on it. And I like going, you know. She’ll be a
pleasant change, because she always tells me what a nice little girl I
used to be, and when we’ve finished with me we go over all the other
children she nursed. I feel I know them all quite well though I’ve never
seen most of them. I sometimes think how odd it would be if we could all
meet.’

Louisa took no interest in Mrs Capper’s charges. It annoyed her to think
that there had been a time when Mrs Capper had brushed Miss Rachel’s
hair and turned down her bed. Rachel’s visits to her old nurse were a
source of irritation, and she never let slip an opportunity of
suggesting that it was too wet or too cold, or that Rachel was too busy
or too tired.

‘That Miss Silver is coming at half-past five, Miss Rachel. You’ll want
to be in.’

Rachel couldn’t help laughing.

‘Her train gets in at half-past five—she won’t be here before six. I
shall be back quite soon after that. Put my torch in the hall and hang
out the lantern. Barlow can drop me before he goes to the station, and
I’ll come back by the cliff.’




                            Chapter Fourteen


Cosmo seemed to think it was his turn for a _tête-à-tête_ with Rachel
after tea. He had a portfolio full of sketches to show her, and he made
it clear that he had no intention of showing them to the whole family.
He was quite as annoyed as Louisa had been when Rachel reminded him that
it was her day for Mrs Capper. He said ‘Stuff and nonsense!’ several
times in a loud voice, and walked up and down jingling the keys in his
trouser pocket and lecturing her about running herself off her legs, and
when he had finished lecturing her he started in to scold the family for
allowing her to wear herself out.

‘It’s all very well, my dear, but good people are scarce, and if no one
else will stand up to you and tell you you’re doing too much, well I
will. I’m not afraid of you, and I’m not afraid to speak my mind. You’re
looking fagged out. What you want is a holiday. Why don’t you go right
away from telephones, and begging letters, and neighbours who want you
to do their shopping for them, and the whole boiling of us? Unless—’ He
stopped and bent affectionately over her chair, one hand on the arm and
the other on her shoulder. ‘Unless ... Come, Rachel, here’s an idea.
What about letting me show you Morocco? We’ll take Caroline to chaperone
us, and you shall pay all the bills.’ He laughed heartily and dropped a
kiss on her hair. ‘Think it over, my dear, think it over.’

Rachel laughed too and got up.

‘I think I should make a better chaperone than Caroline. And now I’m
going to see Nanny, so you must look after yourselves.’

It was an astonishing relief to get away. At Whincliff Edge everyone was
so busy grinding axes that the noise quite deafened her. Louisa with her
jealous devotion, Mabel and Ernest with their grievances, Cosmo with his
possessive affection, Ella with her deserving causes—they pressed about
her, exhausting the very air she breathed, always asking, always
demanding, always wanting more. And under all this surface clamour and
pressure there were depths in which something dark and stealthy moved,
and waited to pull her down. In Nanny Capper’s neat kitchen she was in
another world—a much older, simpler, kinder world where Nanny herself
played Providence and nobody else was more than seven years old.

‘Up in the night he got in his bare feet and nothing on over his night
things, and that’s how I caught him, standing a-tiptoe in your father’s
dressing-room and tugging at the little top drawer to get it open. Two
in the morning it was, and the noise of the drawer that waked me. And
“Master Sonny,” I said, “for goodness gracious sake, whatever are you
doing?” And you should have heard how he spoke up. “I want a
handkerchief,” he says, and “Oh, Master Sonny,” I said, “there’s aplenty
in your own drawer, and one under your pillow, for I put it there
myself.” And what do you think he said? Never flinched, but looked me
straight in the eye. “They’re too little,” he said. “They’re not men’s
handkerchiefs. I want a real man’s handkerchief to blow my nose with.
And please will you open the drawer, because I can’t reach it, Nanny.” ’

‘And what did you do?’ asked Rachel, who knew the answer.

Nanny Capper was a very fat old woman in a white Cashmere shawl over a
black Cashmere dress, and large shapeless slippers trimmed with fur on
her large shapeless feet. She never got out of her chair except to go to
bed, but she enjoyed life hugely. When she had anyone to talk to she
talked, and when she hadn’t anyone to talk to she turned the wireless
on. A stout niece looked after her, and she saw her beloved Miss Rachel
once a week. She asked no more. She had four chins, and they all shook
when she laughed as she did now.

‘Oh, I gave him one—opened the drawer, and gave him the largest
handkerchief I could find. I knew Mr Treherne wouldn’t mind, seeing he
was a visitor and Mr Brent’s son that was his partner. A very nice
gentleman Mr Brent was, but they had some sort of a quarrel, him and
your father, very soon after that, so Master Sonny never came back
again. A couple of months we had him that time, and him and Miss Mabel
sparred something dreadful. Always one to whine and whine she was, and
he couldn’t abide it. But you was only four months old, and he was
mortal taken with you. You’d think he’d never seen a baby before, and I
don’t suppose he had, not close to. There—I often wonder what’s come to
him. He promised to be a fine man. But first there was the quarrel, and
then Mr Brent went away, and it was after that your father made all the
money and we came back to England. Did you never find out anything about
them?’

Rachel shook her head.

‘No. Father wanted me to try, so I tried, and I’ve gone on trying, but
it doesn’t seem to be any use.’

‘Well, I like Master Sonny, and if ever he does turn up, you’ll know
it’s him right enough, because there was a man in the place where we
were that did tattooing—and if Mr Brent didn’t have that poor child’s
name pricked out on his arm! The left arm it was, and just above the
elbow. A downright shame, and so I told him. But he only laughed, and
Master Sonny stuck up his chin and said, “I didn’t cry—did I?” And no
more he hadn’t, and it must have hurt him cruel. And how Mr Brent could
have stood by to see that poor child maltreated like that—well, it
passes me. And that reminds me of little Miss Rosemary Marsh. She used
to come visiting to Mr Frith’s when I had Mr Cosmo. Half a crown a time
her mother used to give her when she had to go to the dentist, and Mrs
Frith, she was wonderful taken with the idea, and I said to her, “No,
ma’am, _if_ you please. If Master Cosmo don’t learn to bear pain now he
never will.” And with one thing and another that’s how I come to leave
and go out to your dear mother that had Miss Mabel on her hands five
years old and expecting you every minute. And I took you from the month.
But Mr Cosmo’s grown a fine man, and I’m pleased to think I had him in
my nursery, if it was only six months. Often drops in he does when he’s
this way. And the stories he’s got to tell, why you wouldn’t believe
there was such goings on—now would you? But he ought to get himself a
good wife to settle him down, for he’s not as young as he was, and so I
told him last time he was here. None of us are, more’s the pity. And
“Nanny,” he says, “what can a poor fellow do if the one he wants won’t
have him?” and he looked at me as pleading as if I’d just locked the
cake in the nursery cupboard. “Go on asking her,” I said. And he looks
at me very solemn and says, “What have I got to offer her, Nanny? A
parcel of debts, a tongue that wags too fast as you’ve often told me, a
roomful of pictures that nobody cares to buy, and a heartful of love
that she don’t want. She could have had me any time these twenty years,
and she knows it.” And I took him and patted him on the shoulder and
told him that faint heart never won fair lady.’

Rachel got up. Cosmo had been proposing to her at intervals ever since
she grew up. It was a habit, and she had come to take it as no more than
his rather tiresome way of expressing the cousinly affection which she
valued. But just at this moment to feel that a proposal from Cosmo was
lurking among the water-colours which he would certainly insist on
showing her either tonight or in the very near future was really the
very, very last straw. And Nanny to be coming over all sentimental and
trying to plead his cause with a bit of squeezed-out tear in the eye and
a made-up quaver in the voice! Anger put colour into her cheeks and
crispness into her tone as she said,

‘It’s a mistake to go on when people don’t want you to, Nanny. Tell him
to look for somebody else before it’s too late. And now I must go.’

‘Oh, Miss Rachel, it’s early yet.’

Mrs Capper knew when she had gone too far. Her tone was a propitiatory
one. It promised, ‘Sit down and talk, and I won’t say another word about
Mr Cosmo.’ But Rachel shook her head.

‘No, I must go. I’ve got someone arriving by the five-thirty—they’ll be
up at the house before I am now.’

‘The clock’s fast, Miss Rachel. Did you hear about Mr Tollage digging
out his hedge, and the adders that was in it? Gave me the creeps it did
to hear about them.’ She kept hold of Rachel’s hand and talked fast to
beguile her into staying. ‘I said to Ellen, “I don’t thank Mr Tollage
for nothing, turning all them snakes out to find new lodgings. I’m not
letting any,” I said. “And you keep a sharp look out that they don’t
come worming themselves in.” And what do you think she told me she’d
seen with her own eyes? You’d never credit it, but those young rascals
of boys was selling adders a penny apiece to anyone that was fool enough
to buy. They say old Betty Martin bought a good few—and if she isn’t a
witch, there’s never been no such thing. And Ellen says two of the boys
spoke up and told her they’d sold a couple of live ones—caught them in
a shrimping-net and tied it up with string. Though what in the world
anyone ’ud want live adders for passes me.’

Rachel got her hand away, but she was no longer in a hurry to go. Her
knees felt weak. She managed enough voice to say.

‘What boys? Who bought the snakes?’

‘They were strangers to Ellen. All they said was a lady in a green scarf
had bought the two live adders, shrimping net and all. She gave them a
good half-crown too. That was a funny thing, wasn’t it, when you come to
think of it?’

‘Yes,’ said Rachel. She wondered if her voice sounded as strange to
Nanny as it did to herself.

Mrs Capper shook her head with its neatly plaited hair and its little
lace cap.

‘Because what would anyone want a pair of live adders for?’

‘I can’t think,’ said Rachel. ‘Good night, Nanny—I really must go.’




                            Chapter Fifteen


Rachel stood in the dark by the gate of Mrs Capper’s cottage and tried
to pull herself together. Cherry had gone away that morning in a bright
green scarf—a flaring emerald scarf which even in the dusk might catch
a child’s eye and be remembered. But anyone could have a green scarf.
Caroline had one—jade green, very bright—too bright. Mabel had given
it to her for her birthday only a week ago.

A trembling took Rachel—a sick trembling. Not Caroline. No, no, no—not
Caroline! There are things you can’t believe.

She stood quite still. The air was very cold. The trembling passed. She
got out her torch and switched it on. The beam was so faint that it
hardly showed her the gate against which she leaned. She could scarcely
believe her eyes, for the battery was a new one put in that morning. She
hesitated as to whether she would take the cliff path after all, or
whether it would be safer to go the long way round by the road. But the
road was a very long way round, the cliff path safe enough for anyone
who knew it. Her eyes had already accustomed themselves sufficiently to
the darkness for her to be able to distinguish the outline of the
cottage against the sky, and the lighter surface of the road.

She put out the torch, walked a little way, and found that she could see
well enough. It was quite easy to make out the path, and that was all
that really mattered. There was just one place where it ran for about
twenty yards right on the edge of the cliff with a long drop to the
beach. She thought she would save the torch and use it there. This was
the one dangerous spot, for the low parapet which guarded it was under
reconstruction, most of it having collapsed in the heavy storms of a
month ago.

She had just switched the torch on, and was finding it more confusing
then helpful, when she thought she heard a footstep behind her. She
stood still to listen, the torch swinging in her hand, making a dancing
pattern on the path. There was both relief and warmth at her heart.
Twice out of the last three times that she had been to see Nanny, Gale
Brandon had appeared from nowhere to walk home with her along the
cliffs.

She had left early tonight. She did not doubt for a moment that he had
found her gone and was following her now. Without appearing to wait for
him, she thought that she might dally a little and give him a chance to
catch her up. The idea of company was pleasant. She had no wish to
listen to her own thoughts.

She walked a few paces and stood at the edge of the path looking out
over the sea. It was a high tide and far in, but only the very highest
tide with a winter gale behind it ever reached the foot of the cliffs.
Black ridges of rock ran down into black water. They were scarcely
visible, darker shadows in a general gloom, but she knew that they were
there. Over them and over the cliff the wind blew cold. It had voice
enough to drown the sound of the oncoming footsteps. There had been a
lull, and there would be a lull again. She waited for it and listened,
looking out over the water.

And then there was the sound, right behind her. She made to turn,
received a violent blow between the shoulders, dropped her torch, and
stumbled forward over the edge of the cliff. That half turn saved her
life. She fell sideways instead of headlong, her right arm flung out,
the hand grasping at emptiness, but all her left side in contact with
the shelving cliff. Her left leg rasped against rock, her left hand
caught at a sod, a tussock. Her foot checked the descent for a moment,
and in that moment she had both hands fast in the twigs and branches of
some small shrubby bush. She hung there, not dazed but sharply, horribly
aware of the rocks below. But she knew that she could not hang there
long. The bush would give, or her frantic grasp.

And then her left foot found a hold again, a little jutting shelf of
rock, narrow, oh, so narrow, but firm as the cliff itself. She got the
toe of her other foot upon it, and the worst of the strain was off her
hands. The bush and her hold of it were enough to steady her.

For a moment the relief was as sweet as if she had been saved, but on
the heels of that came the realization of her position. She could just
make out the edge of the cliff. It seemed to be about eight feet above
her. She could maintain herself here for a time—but for how long? It
was very cold. Her hands were bare—she never wore gloves if she could
help it—and this had helped to save her. But if her numbed fingers
could hold no longer, if she were to turn faint—the rocks were waiting.
The only living soul within call was the one who had pushed her over the
cliff. She did not dare cry out.

As she looked up, there was a sound from above—a kind of grunt and the
scrape of stone on stone. Something blacker than the darkness came over
the verge and rushed past her. She heard the crash of its fall far down
below. The wind of it sang in her ears—and her own cry—and the wind
that came in from the sea. Her body shook, and her heart. If she had not
remembered the rocks she would have let go.

She looked up at the place from which the big stone had come and waited
for another. There were plenty there, great lumps of rock from the
ruined wall—loose too, and not hard to push over. The next would stun
her, carry her away.... None came. She thought, ‘I cried out. He thinks
I fell.’

Then she was aware that someone was looking at her—looking down at her
as she looked up. She could see nothing that could be called a shape,
but there was a place where the darkness was solid. It was the same
place from which the stone had come. Someone who hated her was
there—someone who wanted her to die—someone who wanted to make sure
that she was dead before he went on his way. She said ‘he,’ but she did
not know that it was a man. There was someone there who desired her
death. That was all. It might have been a woman. That scrutiny was worse
than anything that had gone before. It seemed to last a long time. Then
the blackness moved. She did not know which way it went, but it was
gone. The worst horror left her. She shut her eyes and tried to pray.

She never knew quite how long it was before she saw the light. She must
have been aware of it through her closed lids, because she stopped in
the middle of a verse from a psalm and opened her eyes. And there, not a
dozen feet away on her left, was the dancing ray of a torch. It was not
on the same level as she was, but four or five feet above the path,
swinging easily in a man’s hand. Through the sound of the wind Gale
Brandon’s voice came to her, singing a snatch of a negro spiritual:

                ‘Look down, look down that lonesome road
                Before you travel on—’

She called with the strength of agony,

‘Help, Mr Brandon—help!’

He stopped, and she heard her name spoken roughly.

She called again, the strength going out of her.

He said, ‘Rachel!’ with a sort of angry shout, and the beam came down
and struck her upturned face and open eyes.

He said, ‘My God!’ and then, ‘Can you hold on?’

‘I don’t know. Not very long.’

‘You can. I won’t be long.’

And that was all. The light swung back to the path, and she heard his
running feet.

She tried to think how far it was to Nanny’s cottage. Not very far, but
there was no one there who could help. Ellen wouldn’t be back till
seven.

The wind was chilling her, and she was getting stiff. There was only
just room for the fore part of her feet on the narrow ledge. From the
arch of the instep outwards they had no support. She could not move at
all. Her left palm was cut from its desperate clutchings at the rock
when she fell. Her head began to feel dizzy. She shut her eyes.

And then a lull, and the sound of running feet again, only this time
they were coming nearer, and she heard Gale Brandon shout, ‘Hold on! I’m
coming! It’s all right!’

He was above her now, with the torch cunningly tilted to show him her
position without dazzling her. He had a white bundle in his arm and he
began paying it out.

‘Nanny hadn’t any rope—I had to tear up her sheets. That’s why I’ve
been so long.’

The linen fell dangling beside her against the face of the cliff.

‘Now, Rachel, can you let go at all with either hand?’

She said, ‘No.’

Gale Brandon said, ‘You must!’ The light slipped to and fro across her
hands. He said in an encouraging voice, ‘You’ve got quite a good bunch
of stuff in that right hand. Does it feel firm?’

She couldn’t really feel anything at all, but she said ‘Yes.’

‘What sort of foothold have you got?’

‘Rock—but I’ve only got my toes on it.’

‘That’s fine. Now I’m going to swing the sheet close up to you on your
left. It’s knotted into a sling at the end. I’ll try and pull the sling
up under your elbow. The minute you feel it there let go the bush with
your left hand, push your arm through the loop, and catch the sheet
above it. That’ll bring the sling under your armpit. Now do that quick,
and then I’ll tell you what to do next.’

Rachel did it, she never quite knew how. She found herself holding to
the linen rope and feeling it cut in under her armpit as her weight came
on the sling.

Gale Brandon said, ‘That’s fine.’ The light slid over her again. ‘Now
you’ve got to put your head through. It’s quite easy. And then your
right arm, so that the sling will be under both armpits.’

Rachel said, ‘I don’t think I can.’

She heard the sharpest tone of command that had ever been used to her.

‘Do what you’re told, and do it at once!’

She did it.

She was holding the linen now with both hands, and the sling was round
her body.

He said, ‘Now we’re all right. I’m going to pull you up, but you must
help yourself as much as you can. It’s nothing like sheer—there’s a
good bit of slope in our favour. Take advantage of every bit you can.
And don’t be frightened I’ll let you go, because I won’t. You’re quite
safe now.’

Safe! The next few moments were the most terrifying she had ever known.
If she had been less afraid she might have fainted. It was a very
poignancy of terror which kept her conscious. It would have been much
easier if she could have swooned. No use thinking about what would be
easier—she had got to help Gale.

But at first there was nothing she could do. The linen strip tautened
and took her off her feet. A pause while she swung there, and then the
bush scratching her face, her hands, as she was drawn up through it, a
few inches at a time. Now the twigs were rasping against her stockings,
and now she got a knee on a projecting tussock and eased the weight.
Then on again, but less difficult now. The cliff sloped to the path, and
she was dragged up, half leaning, half scrambling, until she reached the
edge and Gale took her under the arms and pulled her up beside him.

They reeled back together across the whole width of the path to a place
where there was rough grass under their feet. And stood so clasped they
made one shadow there. And neither spoke. She could feel the labouring
of his breath and the strong, measured beating of his heart. She had
never been so close to another human being. The cold went out of her,
and the fear.

And then all of a sudden he loosed her and sang out,

‘Who’s there?’

Rachel, holding to his arm, turned round and saw a lantern bobbing along
the track, coming from Whincliff Edge. It spilled its circle of light
about a long skirt and a pair of feet which she would have known
anywhere. She said weakly, ‘It’s Louisa,’ and sat down upon the grass.

And then there was Louisa, crying over her and fussing, and being told
not to fuss with a good deal of energy by Gale. Most of it went over
Rachel’s head, for she was really faint now, but neither Gale’s commands
nor her own dizziness could entirely arrest the flow of Louisa’s
lamentations.

‘Oh, my dear Miss Rachel!’ She said that several times. And, ‘I had to
come—I was that anxious. Oh, my dear—that it should come to this! And
I’d die for you—cheerful and willing—but I can’t stop them—’

‘Will you be quiet!’ said Gale Brandon. ‘I want to get your mistress
home. Put that lantern down and help me to take the rope off her!’

She had not realized that it was partly the linen strip cutting in under
her arms and across her chest that was making her faint, but when it was
gone and she could take a deep, full breath again her senses cleared.

Gale lifted her up.

‘Can you stand?’

‘Oh, yes.’

‘Walk?’

His arm was round her, the arm to whose strength she owed her life. It
felt very strong.

She said, ‘Oh, yes,’ again.

‘That’s fine. Then we’ll be going. Louisa, you go on ahead with the
lantern. No, not that way. I’ve got my car up at Nanny’s cottage. I
don’t want her to walk farther than she need. Pick up that torch and
come along!’

Actually, the movement did Rachel good. Her shoulders and arms had been
numb, but the feeling came back to them. She was sore and bruised, but
had no real hurt. She had not yet begun to think.

But when they came to the car and he had sent Louisa in to tell Nanny
she was safe, she clung to his arm as if it was all she had to trust to.

‘I’d like to sit in front with you.’

‘I’d like to have you, but I thought you’d be more comfortable at the
back—you can lean right into the corner.’

‘No—I don’t want to—I want to stay with you.’

He frowned at the fear in her voice. He said,

‘Why are you afraid? There’s nothing to be frightened of now.’ He put
his arm round her and said insistently, ‘Is there?’

Before she had time to answer Louisa came out of the cottage.

He was frowning in the dark beside her all the way to Whincliff Edge.




                            Chapter Sixteen


In her room Rachel reviewed the damage, and decided that it might have
been much worse. She was bruised and she was scratched, but that was the
worst of it.

‘And you’ll go straight to your bed, Miss Rachel, and not see no one,’
said Louisa tearfully.

Rachel considered. She could say that she had had a fall, and either go
to bed or sit comfortably here by the fire. But she wondered if it would
be humanly possible to keep Mabel out of her room, because if it meant a
_tête-à-tête_ with Mabel, she would rather confront the whole family and
have done with it. Also she wanted to see Miss Silver.

She stood warm and relaxed from her bath and looked thoughtfully at
Louisa.

‘What I’d like to do, Louie, would be to have my dinner here quietly by
the fire in my dressing-gown with Noisy. I don’t want to go to bed a
bit, but I don’t feel like bothering to dress—or talk. That’s the
thing—do you think you can keep the family out?’

Louisa nodded fiercely.

‘Indeed I can, my dear, if I have to lock the door on you and take away
the key.’ She came close, picked up one of Rachel’s hands, and held it
against her cheek. ‘Oh, my dear, there’s nothing I wouldn’t do for
you—you know that.’

Rachel drew her hand away with a little shiver.

‘I know, Louie.’ She sank into the big chair and leaned back gratefully.

But Louisa stood her ground.

‘Aren’t you going to tell me what happened, Miss Rachel?’

Rachel steeled herself. A scene with Louie now—oh, no!

‘I had a fall,’ she said. ‘I went over the edge of the cliff, and Mr
Brandon pulled me up. It was horrid, but it’s over. I’m not hurt, and I
don’t want to go on talking about it.’

Louisa did not speak. She wasn’t crying any longer. She said harshly,

‘You’re shutting yourself up from me. Do you think I don’t know the
devil’s work when I see it? How did you get over the cliff—will you
tell me that? You that know every foot of that path like this room! Mr
Brandon pulled you up. Did he push you over?’

Rachel laughed. It was lovely to be able to laugh.

‘Don’t be stupid, Louie!’

‘Oh, yes, I’m stupid, Miss Rachel—stupid to care like I do. But
_someone_ pushed you—you’d not have fallen else. And you think it
couldn’t be Mr Brandon, because he’s made you believe he’s fond of you.’

Rachel lifted her head.

‘That will do, Louie. You had better not go too far. Now bring me my
block and a pencil. I want to write a note.’

The note was to Miss Silver. It said:

‘Make an excuse and come to my room as soon after dinner as you think
wise. Louisa will show you where it is.’

Presently Caroline came tapping at the door. Rachel let her in for five
minutes, and told her not to tell Mabel. She thought the girl looked
pale and troubled.

‘Is anything the matter, Caroline?’

Her hand was taken and kissed.

‘Just you, darling. You mustn’t go falling about on the cliffs—you
might fall over. I got a frightened feeling. Are you sure you’re all
right?’

Rachel said suddenly, ‘What have you done with the green scarf Mabel
gave you?’

Caroline drew back startled.

‘Darling—why?’

‘Did you wear it yesterday? Yesterday afternoon—on the cliffs?’

Caroline stared.

‘I walked up to meet Richard. I didn’t wear the scarf. I don’t like it
very much—it’s too bright. Why, darling?’

‘Someone saw a girl in a green scarf, and I wondered if it was you.’

Caroline looked puzzled.

‘Anyone can have a green scarf.’

Miss Silver arrived at a little after nine o’clock. By the time she came
Rachel was wishing that she need not see her until the morning. She had
been sitting there by the fire in a curious atmosphere of safety and
contentment, because she was quite sure now that Gale Brandon loved her.
There wasn’t any other woman. He loved her, Rachel Treherne, and no one
else. And she loved him. She had no doubt, either about his feeling or
her own. Without a spoken word, with no more than a rough, insistent
clasp, he had made her sure. All that she had put aside nearly twenty
years ago was being given back to her, good measure, pressed down and
running over. Her heart was bright with a steady flame of happiness. No
wonder the thought of talking to Miss Silver struck a jarring note.

But even as she crossed the room with Noisy frisking beside her and
unlocked the door, her mood changed, because it was not just her life
that was being attacked, it was this new happiness. And it was worth
fighting for.

She meant to fight.

Miss Silver came into the room in the kind of garment affected by
elderly ladies who frequent boarding-houses. It was quite obviously a
summer dress that had been dyed black. Some jet trimming now adorned the
neck and wrists. A long, old-fashioned gold chain descended into her lap
as she took the chair on the other side of the fire. Her neat, abundant
hair was tightly controlled by an unusually firm net. She wore black
Cashmere stockings and _glacé_ shoes with beaded toes. A broad
old-fashioned gold bracelet set with a carbuncle encircled her left
wrist, and a formidable brooch with a design of Prince of Wales’
feathers carried out in hair and seed pearls and surrounded by a plaited
border of black enamel also picked out with pearls, hung like a target
upon her bosom. She carried a black satin work-bag turned back with
bright rose-pink. Rachel felt it would be quite impossible that anyone
should suspect her of being a detective. She had almost to close her
eyes before she could believe it herself.

Such politenesses passed as would be usual between any hostess and any
guest. There were also salutations from Noisy, who appeared very much
pleased with the visitor. Then Miss Silver said briskly,

‘I see you have a good deal to tell me, but before you begin—are we
perfectly private here? Those two doors?’

‘One leads to my bathroom, the other to my own sitting-room. There is no
other way into the bathroom, but it might be best to lock the door
leading from the sitting-room into the passage.’

She was about to rise, but was prevented. Miss Silver said, ‘Allow me,’
and trotted over to the sitting-room door. Rachel heard her open the
second door. Then the click of the key informed her that it was being
locked.

Miss Silver came back, but she did not immediately sit down. She went
first to the bathroom and looked in, after which she resumed her chair,
opened the black satin bag, and drew out her knitting, a mass of pale
blue wool which, unfolded, declared itself as one of those rambling
wraps or scarves in which invalids are invited to entangle themselves.
Miss Silver herself called it a cloud.

‘For dear Hilary. Such a sweet girl, and the pale blue should be most
becoming. And now, Miss Treherne, why did you ring me up in the middle
of the night? And what has been happening today?’




                           Chapter Seventeen


Rachel answered both questions as briefly as possible. She told her
about Neusel finding the adders in her bed, and thought how long ago it
seemed. Then she told her about being pushed over the cliff.

Except for a single ‘My dear Miss Treherne!’ Miss Silver listened in
complete silence. She had ceased to knit. Her hands rested idle on the
pale blue wool, and her eyes never left Rachel’s face. At the end she
said quickly,

‘You are not hurt?’

‘No—only bruised.’

‘You have been providentially preserved. May I ask you one or two
questions? This visit to your old nurse—how many people knew of it?’

Rachel lifted the hand on her knee and let it fall again.

‘Everyone. You see, I go every week.’

‘And this Mr Brandon—did he know?’

Rachel felt her colour rise.

‘Yes, he knew. Lately he has been walking back with me. I have found him
waiting when I came out.’

‘But he was not waiting for you this evening?’

‘I think he came at the usual time. I had left early.’

‘Yes? Why did you do that?’ The small, nondescript eyes were very keen.

‘Nanny said something which upset me.’

‘Will you tell me what it was?’

Rachel hesitated. Then she told Miss Silver the story which Ellen had
brought home about the woman in the green scarf who bought two live
adders in a shrimping-net. But she could not bring herself to repeat all
the nonsense old Nanny had talked about Cosmo Frith.

‘I see. And what member of your household has a green scarf?’

All the colour went out of Rachel’s face.

‘My two young cousins, Cherry Wadlow and Caroline Ponsonby. That is what
upset me—but it’s quite, quite impossible.’

‘And they were both here at the time?’

‘Cherry went away this morning.’ The restraint she had put upon her
voice broke suddenly. ‘Miss Silver—’

Miss Silver looked at her very kindly.

‘My dear Miss Treherne, I do beg that you will not distress yourself.
You are very fond of Miss Caroline, are you not?’

Rachel closed her eyes.

‘It is quite, quite impossible,’ she said in a tone of intense feeling.

Miss Silver picked up her knitting.

‘Let us revert to the events of this afternoon. You did not take your
clever little dog with you?’

‘No. Nanny doesn’t like him, and I’m afraid he doesn’t like her. He sits
on the other side of the room and growls. In fact they’re better apart.’

‘Ah—a pity. And that would be known too, I suppose. A great pity. He
would probably have given you some warning—but it cannot be helped.
Miss Treherne, are you sure that you were pushed?’

Rachel lifted steady eyes.

‘Quite sure, Miss Silver.’

‘Was it a man or a woman who pushed you?’

‘I don’t know.’

‘Try and think. A man’s hand is larger, harder—there would be more
force. Try and remember what sort of a blow it was. Were you struck with
a hard impact? Was there much weight behind it? Or was it more of a
push? You said that you were pushed.’

A faint shudder passed over Rachel.

‘It was a very hard push.’

‘So that it might have been a man or a woman.’

‘I think so.’

‘It wasn’t the kind of blow that a very strong man would strike—Mr
Brandon for instance?’

Rachel began to laugh.

‘How do you know that Mr Brandon is so strong?’

‘Only a very strong man could have pulled you up.’

Rachel went on laughing. It was a relief to laugh.

‘My dear Miss Silver, if Mr Brandon had knocked me over the cliff, I
should never have had a chance to catch hold of my bush. I should have
gone flying right out to sea.’

Miss Silver’s eyes twinkled pleasantly.

‘And that is just what I wanted to know,’ she said. ‘It comes to this,
you see—the person who pushed you over did not use any very great
force. You were taken unawares, and you were thrown off your balance. It
may quite easily have been a woman.’

Rachel winced sharply. All the laughter went out of her.

Miss Silver leaned forward.

‘I am sorry to pain you, but I am bound to ask these questions. However,
for the present I have done. I spent quite a profitable time before
coming up to you. I had some conversation with all your relatives. I
find that the manner in which people behave to someone whom they
consider quite unimportant is often highly illuminating.’

Rachel had no illusions about her family. She quailed a little. She
hoped for the best as she said,

‘And were you illuminated?’

Miss Silver stabbed her pale blue wool with a yellow needle like a long,
thin stick of barley-sugar. She said in a dry little voice, ‘Oh,
considerably.’

Rachel said, ‘Well?’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘Each of them has something on his or her mind. With most of them it is,
I think, money.’

‘Yes?’

‘Mrs Wadlow talks very freely. It does not matter to her whether the
person she talks to is a stranger or not. All that matters is that she
should be able to talk about her dearest Maurice, and her fears for his
health if he should go to Russia, and her hopes that you will make it
possible for him to engage in some much safer enterprise in this
country. She also talks, but with less feeling, about her daughter, whom
she seems to suspect of being financially embarrassed and possibly on
the brink of an elopement.’

‘Mabel said all that?’

Miss Silver nodded.

‘In about twenty minutes—on the sofa—after dinner. I had not much talk
with Miss Caroline, but I observed her. She is deeply troubled, and
uncertain what she ought to do. Mr Richard is, of course, in love with
her, and her trouble may merely be that the course of true love does not
run quite smooth. Are there financial obstacles to their marriage?’

Rachel said, ‘I don’t know. Richard won’t take anything from me. I
helped him with his training, and he has paid me back. I don’t know
whether he is in a position to marry or not. Caroline ought to have
about three hundred a year, but I think she must have had losses. She’s
been doing without things, and I know she sold a ring. I haven’t liked
to say anything—she’s sensitive.’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked again.

‘Mr Wadlow has a worried manner. Small things appear important to him.
This kind of character is confusing even to the trained observer.
Trifles are so much in evidence that one is tempted to assume that there
is nothing behind them. This may be the case—or not. I reserve judgment
about Mr Wadlow.’

‘And Cosmo?’

‘Mr Frith is a very charming person. I was particularly struck with the
fact that he took the trouble to be charming to me.’

Rachel’s heart warmed to Cosmo, all the more because she had felt a
little nervous. He didn’t always take the trouble to make himself
agreeable to a dull visitor. She had known him read a book in a corner
all the evening—and yawn over it too if he felt bored. She said,

‘I’m glad you like Cosmo. He’s a bit of a spoilt child, but he has the
kindest heart in the world.’

Miss Silver smiled brightly.

‘Kind hearts are indeed more than coronets, as dear Lord Tennyson says.’

Rachel felt a wild desire to finish the quotation, but she restrained
herself.

‘How did you get on with Ella Comperton?’ she asked.

‘She seems very much interested in slum clearance.’

Rachel laughed.

‘She is always very much interested in something. It is never the same
thing for very long. All very worthy objects, but she rather does them
to death.’

Miss Silver looked up shrewdly.

‘She collects for them?’

‘Most zealously. Did she collect from you?’

‘A mere half-crown. And from you?’

Rachel laughed again.

‘I’m afraid I don’t get off with half a crown.’

Miss Silver laid down her knitting and produced notebook and pencil from
the black satin bag.

‘Forgive me, Miss Treherne, but I should be glad to have the name of any
society or charitable institution to which you have contributed through
Miss Comperton during the past year, together with the amount
contributed.’

Rachel bit her lip.

‘Miss Silver, I hardly think—’

Miss Silver’s eyes brightened.

‘An attempt has been made on your life. I suspect no one—yet. But until
I suspect someone it is my business to suspect everyone and to check up
on everyone. If they are innocent, no harm is done. On the contrary.
Confidence is re-established. If one of them is guilty—are you a
religious woman, Miss Treherne?’

Rachel said, ‘Yes.’

Miss Silver nodded approvingly.

‘Then you will agree with me that the best thing that can happen to
anyone who is doing wrong is to be found out. If he is not found out he
will do more wrong and earn a heavier punishment. And now—those
particulars if you please.’

Rachel gave them.




                            Chapter Eighteen


When Miss Silver reached her own room she sat down on a small upright
chair and plunged into thought for the space of about ten minutes. Then
she glanced at her own little clock, a loudly ticking contraption of
Swiss origin in a wooden case freely decorated with carved edelweiss,
which she had placed in the exact centre of the mantelpiece, and
observing that it was still not quite ten o’clock, rose up and rang the
bell.

She was just thinking of ringing it again, when a plump, rosy-faced girl
arrived in a hurry.

‘Now I wonder,’ said Miss Silver, ‘whether I might speak to Louisa. That
is her name, is it not—Miss Treherne’s maid?’

‘Oh, yes, miss. But if there’s anything I can do—’

‘Not at the moment, thank you. Was it you who unpacked for me?... And
your name?... Ivy? Thank you very much, Ivy. Now if you will just ask
Louisa to look in for a few moments on her way upstairs. I suppose her
room is somewhere near Miss Treherne’s.... Oh, the door beyond Miss
Treherne’s sitting-room? Then I shall only be taking her a step out of
her way.’

When Ivy had departed, Miss Silver retraced her steps. She passed the
doors of Rachel Treherne’s bedroom and sitting-room, and then stood
listening for a moment before tapping lightly on what she now knew to be
Louisa Barnet’s door. Receiving no answer, she turned the handle and
went in.

About ten minutes later she was back in her own room saying, ‘Come in!’
to Louisa’s knock. But Louisa was by no means anxious to enter. She
remained upon the threshold.

‘Were you wanting anything, Miss?’

Miss Silver said ‘Yes,’ and added in a tone of authority,

‘Please come in and shut the door.’

Louisa complied ungraciously. Her manner made it plain that it was not
her place to wait upon the bedrooms.

Miss Silver indicated a chair at a slight distance from her own.

‘Will you sit down. I want to talk to you.’

‘It’s getting late, miss.’

‘Sit down please. I am a private enquiry agent, and I am here in that
capacity. I want to talk to you about your mistress—about the attempts
which are being made upon her life.’

Louisa took the chair and sat down upon it. The action did not so much
suggest compliance as an inability to continue in a standing position.
She had a horrified look, and her face twitched. After a moment she said
in a stumbling voice,

‘Miss Rachel has told you—’

‘She told me about a number of attempts, and I would like to go over
them with you, because I am sure there is no one who can help me as much
as you can.’

Louisa’s eyes dwelt on her. They were dark with feeling.

‘If you can help Miss Rachel, I’ll help you. It’s time someone did.’

Miss Silver nodded.

‘Very well put. You shall help me, and together we will help Miss
Treherne.’ She produced a shiny exercise-book. ‘Now, Louisa—this first
attempt—the slippery stairs. Do you remember that?’

Louisa nodded.

‘I shan’t never forget it. She might have been killed.’

‘Well, Louisa, I don’t want to worry Miss Treherne, but I would like to
know who else was in the house, and what rooms they were occupying.’

‘Same as they always do. And they was all here, the whole lot of them.
Mr and Mrs Wadlow, they have Mr Treherne’s suite on the ground floor
because of Miss Mabel having palpitations. Bedroom, dressing-room,
bathroom and sitting-room they’ve got, and right underneath Miss
Rachel—the same rooms as you might say, only on the ground floor. Then
Mr Frith and Mr Maurice, they’re in the bachelors’ quarters when they’re
here—on the ground floor too, and their own entrance next the garage.
Miss Caroline, she has the room opposite Miss Rachel, and Miss Cherry
Wadlow next door. And Miss Comperton is next door to you here. And Mr
Richard, he’s got the two over Mr Frith and Mr Maurice because of having
a lot of office work to do with his architecting.’

Miss Silver nodded.

‘And where were all these people when Miss Treherne was washing her
dog?’

Louisa tossed her head.

‘I know where one of them was,’ she said, ‘for she was coming out of her
room as I went by, and that was Miss Caroline Ponsonby. She shut the
door quick, but I’ll take my Bible oath I saw her—and she’d been crying
too.’

‘Did you see anyone else in the neighbourhood of the stairs that
afternoon?’

‘Mr Richard come up a half hour later, and he was knocking at Miss
Caroline’s door wanting her to come out, but she wouldn’t, and maybe
she’d her own reasons.’

‘You didn’t see anyone else?’ enquired Miss Silver.

She got a look.

‘No, I didn’t. I’d something else to do than watch the stairs.’

Miss Silver turned a page in the shiny notebook.

‘In the matter of the burning curtains—what time of day was it, and who
discovered them to be alight?’

‘Round about seven o’clock in the evening, and I found them myself. All
alight they were and blazing. I come up to put out Miss Rachel’s things,
and who should come out of the sitting-room but Miss Caroline and Mr
Richard? And when I went through into the bedroom, there were the
curtains all alight and blazing.’

‘Very suspicious indeed,’ said Miss Silver. ‘Fortunately Miss Treherne
was in no real danger. I am sure you were most prompt.’ She turned
another leaf. ‘And now we come to something a good deal more
serious—the affair of the chocolates.’

Louisa’s mouth twitched.

‘If I hadn’t been here—’ she said. Her hand went to her lips. ‘Miss
Rachel that’s so good to them—’

‘You were with her when she bought the chocolates?’

‘Yes, I was. And so was Miss Caroline. Did she tell you that?’

Miss Silver gazed mildly.

‘I do not think so. Now can you tell me about how long the box was in
the house before dinner, and where it was during that time?’

‘It was in Miss Rachel’s sitting-room from five till half-past seven,
and that’s when it was got at. Miss Rachel, she was in her bedroom, and
the chocolates were in the sitting-room. Anyone could have got at them,
and someone did.’

‘Do you know who it was, Louisa?’

‘I’ve got my own ideas, miss—how can I help having them? But Miss
Rachel, she won’t listen to a word. She won’t let herself
believe—that’s what it is.’

‘Ah, yes, there are none so blind as those who will not see. Well, that
is very helpful.’ She turned another page. ‘We now come to the very
curious affair of the snakes.’ She gazed with an air of prim
intelligence. ‘What put such an idea into your head, Louisa?’

There was just a moment when nothing happened. Then a faintly startled
look touched Louisa Barnet’s eyes, to be immediately displaced by a
flash of almost insane anger. She said on a rising note,

‘What’s that you said?’

Miss Silver did not raise her voice at all.

‘I asked you what made you think of putting those snakes in your
mistress’s bed.’

Louisa half got up out of her chair and dropped back again with a hand
at her side. The flush of fury faded from her face and left it damp and
yellow. She choked and said thickly,

‘Me? Why, I’d die for Miss Rachel. She knows it, and you know it!’

‘But you put the snakes in her bed, didn’t you? Please don’t think you
can lie to me, because I know you did. I can even tell you why. You
wanted to make Miss Treherne believe that one of the relations was
trying to injure her. You would like to make her believe that it was
Miss Caroline, so when you heard that a lot of adders had been found in
Mr Tollage’s hedge you took Miss Caroline’s green scarf out of her room
and you went off up in the dusk to see whether you could get hold of one
of these snakes. And you had very good luck, because you were able to
buy two live ones in a shrimping-net from some boys who didn’t know you.
You paid them half a crown, and they remembered the green scarf, as you
hoped they would. It was very foolish of you to keep the shrimping-net
in your room. I found it in the wardrobe, hanging behind your coat.
People who are trying to commit murder have to be a great deal more
careful than that, Louisa Barnet—if they don’t want to be found out.’

Louisa gave a dreadful gasp. Her head went back against the wall and her
eyes stared. For a moment Miss Silver thought that she was going to
faint, but she recovered herself. Her head came up with a jerk and her
eyes blazed. She said in a high, shaking voice,

‘You come here prying, and you think you’ve found something out, and you
think how clever you’ve been, but it’s not you nor no one else’ll make
my Miss Rachel believe I’d harm her! She knows right enough I’d die for
her and willing Miss Rachel does! So you’re not so clever after all!’

There was the slightest of taps upon the door, so faint a sound that it
was strange to see how it halted Louisa.

Miss Silver said, ‘Come in,’ and the door was opened. It was Rachel
Treherne who stood on the threshold in her maize-coloured dressing gown.
She stood looking gravely in upon them. Then, as Louisa got to her feet,
she came forward and shut the door.

‘What is happening?’ she said in a cool and quiet voice.

Louisa began to sob.

‘What’s brought you here out of bed, which is where you ought to be? And
you’ll only hear lies about me if you listen to her. Are you going to
stand there and take a stranger’s word against me that’s loved you these
twenty years?’

‘What does this mean?’ said Rachel. She looked at Miss Silver, and it
was Miss Silver who answered.

‘It is true that you ought to be in bed. Is it too late to suggest that
you go back to your room and allow me to give you an explanation in the
morning?’

Rachel shook her head.

‘Much too late. There was something I wanted to say to you, but it
doesn’t matter. I am afraid I must ask for your explanation now.’

Miss Silver looked at her kindly.

‘I would rather have waited, but I see that you must know. Will you not
sit down? I will be brief, but I feel obliged to explain myself.’

‘Are you going to listen to her lies?’ said Louisa roughly.

Rachel rested her hand on the back of the proffered chair.

‘I am certainly going to listen,’ she said. ‘You will please not
interrupt, Louisa.’ She drew her wrap about her and sat down. ‘Now, Miss
Silver.’

Miss Silver sat down too. Louisa put out a hand and took hold of the
brass rail at the head of the bed. She was a little behind Rachel and
facing Miss Silver, at whom she stared with hard and angry eyes.

Miss Silver addressed herself to Rachel, sitting very composed and
upright with her hands folded in her lap.

‘When you came to see me in London, Miss Treherne, I derived certain
very definite impressions from what you told me. I could see that you
believed yourself to have been the victim of three murderous attempts,
but I did not feel entirely able to take that view myself—not on the
evidence you then laid before me. To me it pointed, not necessarily to
attempted murder, but rather to the presence in your household of some
neurotic person who wished to make you believe that you were in danger,
or who was actuated by what, I understand, is now termed exhibitionism.
It used to be called showing off.’

‘The Lord’s my witness!’ Louisa Barnet’s voice shook passionately.

Rachel put up a hand without looking round.

‘If you want to stay, Louie, you must be quiet.’

Miss Silver went on as if there had been no interruption.

‘It was the second attempt which made me suspect that we had a neurotic
to deal with. I do not know why nervously disturbed persons should so
commonly set fire to window curtains, but it is quite a constant
occurrence. It makes a lot of show and does very little harm. When I
discovered from Louisa herself that the fire in this instance occurred
at a time when any member of the household would know that it was bound
to be discovered by your maid, who would naturally be in attendance to
help you dress for dinner—well, if I had needed convincing I should
then have been convinced. But I had already made up my mind. I arrived
down here to find in Louisa Barnet the very type I was looking for.’

Louisa flung up her hand.

‘Miss Rachel—are you going to listen to this?’

‘I think we will both listen,’ said Rachel.

Miss Silver went on speaking.

‘After I had left you, Miss Treherne, I went to Louisa Barnet’s room,
and there I found two things which I had expected to find. One of them
was a shrimping-net.’

Rachel became so pale that there was no colour left in her face at all.
She put out a hand as if to ward something off, and said in a whisper,

‘Oh, no, no—not Louie!’

‘Miss Rachel—’

‘It was Louisa Barnet who put the snakes in your bed, Miss Treherne.’

Rachel turned. She moved her chair, and turned in it so that she could
see Louisa’s face. She said,

‘Did you, Louie?’

Louisa came with a rush and fell at her knees.

‘It wasn’t to do you no harm—oh, my dear, it wasn’t! They’ll make you
think it was, but it wasn’t. No, she won’t make you think it, because
you know my heart. You know—oh, my dear, you _know_!’

‘Why did you do it, Louie?’

Louisa sat back on her heels with the tears running down her face.

‘You wouldn’t listen to nothing, and you wouldn’t believe nothing. What
could I do?’

‘So you put adders in my bed. Get up, Louie, and sit down!’ She turned
to Miss Silver. ‘Did she do the other things too?’

‘Yes, Miss Treherne, but I do not think she meant you to be hurt. She
wanted to frighten you—about your relations, to make you believe they
were trying to injure you. She began by writing you anonymous letters.
Then she made the stairs slippery, but she was there to warn you not to
step on them. She set your curtains on fire, but she put them out again.
She made you believe that your chocolates had been poisoned, but I think
it was only ammoniated quinine—I found the bottle on the wash-stand. It
is a great pity that you did not have the chocolates analysed, but she
was, of course, quite sure that you would not do so.’

‘Ammoniated quinine—was that the second thing you found?’

‘Yes, Miss Treherne. I had expected it. A very bitter taste, and quite
harmless. Louisa did not wish to poison your body—she merely wished to
poison your mind. Against your relations. Chiefly, I think, against Miss
Caroline, of whom she is jealous.’

There was a silence. Then Rachel said in a mere ghost of a voice,

‘Oh, Louie!’

Louisa stood up. Her tears were dry, and her eyes burned. She stood up,
tall and fierce, and all at once she dominated the room. She said in a
hard, even voice,

‘You don’t ask me if it’s true.’

‘Is it true, Louie?’

She threw up her head.

‘I’m going to tell you what’s true.’ She turned as if she was looking
for something and snatched up a square old-fashioned Bible from the
table beside the bed. ‘I’ll tell you the truth, and the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth, so help me God—and I’ll swear it on that woman’s
Bible. But I can’t make you believe me if so be she’ve stopped your ears
with her lies.’

‘Are they lies, Louie?’

‘It’s a lie for anyone to say I’d hurt you! I’ve never wanted nothing
but to see you happy, and I’ve never done nothing but to keep you safe.
But I couldn’t get you to believe me.’

‘Tell me what you did and why you did it, Louie.’

Louisa sat down on the side of the bed again. She clasped her hands over
the Bible and said,

‘If she can read anyone like a book, then she’ll know I’m speaking true.
I’ve heard of such, but how she does it passes me. And if she can read
everyone so clever, why don’t she tell you who it is doing the devil’s
work in this house? For this is what I’ll tell you, and it’s true. There
was someone polished the step before ever I did it. And it wasn’t that
day—it was the Sunday evening, and Miss Rachel come in late. Everyone
knew it, and knew she was bound to be late for dinner. So there they all
were, waiting for Miss Rachel to come hurrying down so as not to keep
them. And one of them knew that when she come hurrying she’d be bound to
fall because the top step was polished like glass. But, Miss Rachel, you
sent me down to tell them not to wait, and I wasn’t hurrying myself for
them, so I’d time to take hold of the banisters and save myself. And I
took hot water and washed the stuff off and never said nothing because
it wasn’t no use. But in the night it come to me that I’d got to show
you. I thought if you saw it with your own eyes, maybe you’d believe me,
so I did the three stairs when you were washing Noisy the next Saturday,
but you wouldn’t take no heed. And I did the curtains like she says, and
the chocolates, and the adders. But don’t you never think I’d have let
you step into that there bed, my dear. Adders is stupid in the winter,
and I reckoned they’d stay in the warmth by the hot water bottle. And
what I was going to do was turn the bed right back and see something.
And call out, like I did, and strip the bed. But I got a fright, for I
didn’t reckon on their being so lively. It must have been the heat. They
were like dead things when I bought them.’

Rachel leaned her head on her hand.

‘Noisy killed them clever enough, and I put them on the fire with a good
heart. I thought now you’d believe there was someone trying to do you a
mischief.’

‘And it was you all the time! Only you, Louie!’

Louisa leaned forward, gripping the Bible.

‘You’re not going to believe that, my dear!’ She turned to Miss Silver.
‘Are you going to let her believe that? If you can’t tell lies from
truth, what’s the good of you? I’m telling you the truth. I didn’t mean
to do nothing to those chocolates—it never came into my head. But
whilst Miss Rachel was in her bath I went in and had a look at them. The
soft ones was in a bag separate, and I thought I’d see if I couldn’t get
them into the box. I’d about finished, when one of them rolled over, and
there, underneath, you could see it had been meddled with. I put it
straight in the fire before I stopped to think, and then it come to me
I’d thrown away my chance to make Miss Rachel believe. So I looked to
see if that was the only one, and it was. I looked quick and careful,
but there wasn’t any more. So then I thought what I could do, and I done
it with the ammoniated quinine, like she says.’

Miss Silver’s eyes brightened, sharpened.

‘One of the chocolates had been tampered with? You’re quite sure of
that?’

The defiant dark eyes met hers. The defiance went out of them.

‘I’m sure,’ said Louisa—‘certain, certain sure—and I’ve got the Book
in my hand that I’ve sworn on to tell the truth. And I’ll say more than
that. If there’s any plague in this Book, from the plagues that come on
the Egyptians to what come on Judas that was a traitor, let them be
nothing to what I’m willing to have come on me if I’ve taken anything
away from the truth or put anything to it.’

Rachel looked at her and looked away. She lifted her head from her hand
and said in a low, steady voice,

‘Who pushed me over the cliff?’




                            Chapter Nineteen


Louisa moved with the Bible in her clasp. When she had laid it down on
the little table beside the bed she came back and put a hand on Rachel’s
shoulder.

‘Do you think I pushed you, my dear?’ The voice was deep and gentle, the
words simply spoken as to a child.

Rachel looked up at her and then down again. She said,

‘No, Louie—you do love me.’ Then, after a pause, ‘But someone pushed
me.’

‘I think you should go to bed now,’ said Miss Silver. ‘We will talk
about it in the morning.’

Rachel got wearily to her feet.

‘Yes—I can’t think—I can’t talk about it any more tonight. Louie, I
can’t talk to you. You must go to your room.’

‘Miss Rachel—’

‘Not tonight. I can’t. Please go.’

She turned back at the door herself because Miss Silver beckoned her.

‘I won’t keep you, Miss Treherne, but—will you change rooms with me
tonight?’

Rachel smiled faintly.

‘No, I won’t do that.’

‘Then will you lock the doors—the two on the corridor and the
communicating door from the sitting-room?’

‘Yes—I was going to.’

‘Your little dog sleeps in your room? Would he bark if anyone came in?’

‘Yes, I think he would. At least he growled horribly when Ella Comperton
put her head in one night.’

‘Why did she do that?’

‘She wanted to know if I had any aspirin.’

‘And had you?’

‘No. I never take things like that. She ought to have known.’

‘And when was this?’

‘About a fortnight ago. So I think that Noisy would live up to his
name.’

Back in her own room, Rachel thought again how peaceful it looked. Noisy
had opened one eye when she came in, but he was now fast asleep again
with his blanket thrown off and one ear flapped back. Rachel put it
straight, felt him move against her hand, and thought, ‘How simple to be
a dog. You love someone very much, and they love you.’

She slipped off her dressing-gown, turned out the light, and lay down in
bed. She sank through a kind of mist of fatigue into drowning depths of
sleep and stayed there.

Much later in the night she rose to the surface, and was visited by
dreams which changed continually. In one she saw herself walking like a
prisoner across a waste of snow. Her wrists and ankles were chained with
heavy links of gold, and she was quite alone. Then Gale Brandon came
rushing over the snow in a sleigh and caught her up in the wind of his
flight and swept her on. His arms were warm and strong.

Then she was running from something she could not see. She ran right up
the Milky Way, and the stars flashed in her eyes and dazzled her, until
they changed into cars with burning headlights, and the Milky Way into a
concrete road. Someone blew a horn right in her ear, and she began to
run again. Gale Brandon said, ‘You’re quite safe now,’ but she couldn’t
find him because all the lights went out. Miss Silver said, ‘Simple
faith is a great deal more uncommon than Norman blood.’ But it was
Louisa who was crying as if her heart would break. The sound of her sobs
turned into the noise of waves. Rachel hung on the cliff again, but it
was daylight now. If she could look up she would see who it was that had
pushed her over. But she couldn’t look up. She had to look down at the
rocks which were waiting for her. She heard Gale Brandon call her name,
and woke.

It was still dark. The fire was dead. There was no light in the room.
But she thought she heard a sound. She thought that there was someone
outside her door—an ear against the panel—a hand upon the latch.
Noisy’s basket creaked. She heard him move, stand up, go pattering over
the floor. And then she heard him growl. It was the faintest sound, a
mere thrum in the throat. She called him, and he came running, to jump
on the bed and flounce joyously in under the eiderdown. Rachel let him
stay.

Presently she slept again.

Louisa brought her tea with an air of tragedy which was daunting in the
extreme. Rachel’s heart sank, but years of practice had given her a
certain technique; she managed to postpone the impending scene.

The next thing that happened was more cheerful. The telephone bell rang
beside the bed, and there was Gale Brandon to say good morning and ask
how she felt.

‘Stiff,’ said Rachel.

‘Are you getting up?’ He sounded eager.

‘Not at the moment, but I’m going to.’

‘I’d like to come over and see you if I may.’

‘Of course you may. I haven’t thanked you for saving my life.’

‘You don’t want to do that.’

‘But I do.’

‘I mean, you don’t need to. I’ve been doing the thanking. Well, I’ll be
over. Is eleven o’clock too early?... All right, I’ll make it
half-past.’ He rang off.

As she hung the receiver up, there came a gentle tapping on the door and
Caroline Ponsonby came into the room in a green dressing-gown. Perhaps
it was the colour that made her look so pale. She came and leaned on the
foot of the bed, and Noisy pushed his nose out from under the eiderdown
and made a little snuffling sound of welcome. Caroline said, ‘Bad spoilt
one!’ and stretched a hand to pull his ear. After a moment she
straightened herself and looked at Rachel.

‘Are you all right, darling? I worried about you in the night.’

Rachel thought, ‘She looks as if she had seen a ghost. What is it?’ She
said,

‘Was it you who came to my door?’

Caroline flushed.

‘I did—once—when it was nearly morning. Did you hear me? I didn’t mean
to wake you. I couldn’t sleep.’

Rachel put out her hand.

‘Come here and tell me why you couldn’t sleep.’

But Caroline stood where she was.

‘I was frightened—about you—about the fall you had. I was afraid to go
to sleep. You know how it is when you feel as if a horrid dream was
waiting for you.’ She gave a pretence of a laugh. ‘I thought I wouldn’t
give it a chance, that’s all. But you are all right?’

‘Perfectly all right.’

Caroline opened her mouth as if she was going to say something, and then
shut it again and ran out of the room. Her eyes were full of tears.




                             Chapter Twenty


Rachel went down to breakfast as the lesser of two evils. If she shared
the family meal she would get all the family questions over at once,
whereas to stay upstairs was to invite separate visits from Ernest,
Mabel, Ella, Cosmo, and Richard, with the same solicitous enquiries from
each visitor in turn. She put a little colour in her cheeks and hoped
for the best.

Everyone certainly did ask an inordinate number of questions. Ernest
Wadlow’s chief preoccupation appeared to be a desire to establish the
exact spot where she had fallen. He arranged spoons and forks to
represent the line of the cliff, with a breakfast cup for Nanny’s
cottage, and lumps of sugar to simulate the broken wall.

‘If you came out here you would switch on your torch at the gate—I
suppose you did switch on your torch?’

‘The battery had run down,’ said Rachel.

Ella Comperton coughed.

‘Well, Rachel, I should have thought you would have made sure of having
a good battery before attempting that dangerous path.’

Ernest transferred his attention to Ella.

‘I do not think one can fairly describe the path as dangerous—not with
a good torch.’

‘But it wasn’t a good torch, and nothing would induce me to attempt it,
Ernest.’

‘I can’t imagine why you didn’t let the car fetch you,’ said Mabel
Wadlow in her fretful voice. ‘It could perfectly well have met Miss
Silver’s train and then picked you up.’

Rachel felt her colour rise.

‘But I like walking,’ she said, and wondered how many of them would
guess that she liked walking because Gale Brandon sometimes walked with
her.

‘But without a proper torch!’ said Ernest. ‘Do you mean to say that the
battery was quite run down?’

‘It wasn’t much use.’

Richard looked over the top of the _Daily Mail_.

‘But I put a new battery in for you yesterday morning.’

Rachel said, ‘Yes.’

Cosmo Frith lowered _The Times_ and observed genially,

‘In that case, my dear, you must have taken the wrong torch.’

One of those arguments peculiar to families developed. The condition of
the battery became the subject of a heated debate which culminated in
Cosmo bursting out laughing and declaring that the culprit should be
allowed to give evidence on its own behalf. He went out into the hall
for the torch, and came in switching it on and off.

‘Nothing much wrong with it, my dear, to my mind. A good thing you
didn’t lose it when you fell. Of course it’s not so easy to tell in
daylight, but the battery seems pretty hearty to me. I’ll try it inside
the china cupboard.’

A moment later he was calling from behind a half-closed door.

‘Here, Richard, come and see! Rachel, I’d like you to take a look. I’ll
swear there’s nothing wrong with this battery.’

Rachel looked, and saw a bright beam and a brilliant ring of light. Over
her shoulder Miss Silver saw them too.

‘Nothing wrong with it—eh, my dear?’

Rachel said in a puzzled voice,

‘It wasn’t like that last night.’

She drew away from the cupboard door and back to her place, to be
immediately pounced on by Ernest.

‘Now let us suppose that you had walked as far as this—the first lump
of sugar represents the beginning of the wall—how much farther had you
gone before you fell? I am allowing a yard to each lump of sugar.’

‘I really don’t know, Ernest.’

He gazed reproachfully over the top of the crooked pince-nez.

‘But, my dear Rachel, you must have some idea. I do not expect complete
accuracy—we are not in a court of law—but you must surely be able to
hazard a guess.’

‘I don’t know that I want to, Ernest. I would really so much rather not
have to go on thinking about it.’

‘Or talking about it,’ said Cosmo Frith. ‘And nor you shall, my dear.
We’re all much too thankful you weren’t hurt to worry about
might-have-beens.’

Ella Comperton pushed back her chair.

‘Well, it all seems to me to be a good deal of fuss about nothing. I’m
sure I had a nasty tumble myself the other day, and nobody made any fuss
about it. I don’t know what everyone is going to do, but I am going to
write letters, and then later on I shall take a little constitutional.
Caroline, you look as if you would be none the worse for some fresh air
and exercise.’

‘Caroline is coming into Ledlington with me,’ said Richard.

But if there was relief on Caroline’s face, there was no gratitude. The
defenceless look which had brought Richard to her rescue sank a little
deeper into her eyes, but it was still there.

He spoke to her for a moment as they came out of the dining-room
together.

‘You needn’t come, but—I won’t worry you—’

She took a quick breath.

‘It’s not that. I’ve got to pack.’

She walked off towards the stairs, but he caught her up.

‘How do you mean, you’ve got to pack?’

She took hold of the banisters and stood half turned from him.

‘I think—I’ve got—to go away—’

‘What do you mean? You needn’t—I’ll go.’

She said ‘No’ in a heart-broken voice, and ran from him up the stairs.

When Rachel came up after seeing the housekeeper she found Richard in
her sitting-room. He turned from the window as she came in and said
without any preamble,

‘Why is Caroline going away?’

Rachel felt an acute distress. It seemed to flow to her from Richard. It
took hold upon her heart. She said quickly,

‘But I didn’t know she was going. Have you quarrelled?’

He was very pale.

‘Listen, Rachel. You must have known—what I feel—about Caroline.
Everyone must have known. I’ve never tried to hide it—never wanted to.
She’s been everything to me as long as I can remember. I was only
waiting—till I was in a position—’

‘I know. What has gone wrong?’

‘I don’t know—I tell you I don’t know. I asked her to marry
me—yesterday—after tea. We went out for a walk on the cliffs—it was
dark. I didn’t mean to do it, but I found myself telling her—asking
her. And she said “No.” ’

‘Richard!’

‘It was damnable. I don’t know what made me choose an idiotic place like
that. I couldn’t see her face. I couldn’t get any sense out of her. She
was all frozen up, and when I tried to take hold of her she ran away. I
tell you I don’t know what to make of her. And this morning—she’s just
told me—she’s going to pack—’

Rachel took him by the arm.

‘Wait a minute—I want to ask you something. You say you were on the
cliffs. What time were you there, and what part of the cliff were you
on?’

He said impatiently, ‘I don’t know! Does it matter? I got back about
six. We went by the upper path, and after Caroline left me I came back
along the edge. I must have just missed you, I suppose.’

He felt her grasp tighten.

‘Did you see anyone—meet anyone?’

‘No, I don’t think so. Why?’

‘And you’re sure you did change the battery in my torch yesterday
morning?’

‘Quite sure. Rachel, what is all this about?’

She said in a low, steady voice, ‘Richard—’ and before she could say
any more the door opened and Miss Silver came into the room with her
head a little on one side and a pleasant if somewhat foolish smile upon
her face.

‘I do hope I don’t intrude, but you did say in a quarter of an hour’s
time, and I make it exactly the quarter. My watch keeps excellent time.
A twenty-first birthday gift from my parents, and I do not think it has
ever been out of order—but that was before the days of cheap watches.
Dear me—what a charming room this is. And what a delightful view. It
reminds me of a picture which I remember seeing in the Royal
Academy—well now, it would be quite twenty years ago. That headland,
and the rocks, and the peculiar greenish grey colour of the sea—’

As she tripped to the window for a nearer view, Richard turned a face of
barely suppressed fury upon Rachel. It enquired, ‘Is she going to stay?’
and a flicker of Rachel’s eyelids replied, ‘She is.’

She went with him to the door and squeezed his arm.

‘I won’t let her go if I can help it,’ she said in a whisper.

They were both looking across at Caroline’s door.

Richard said ‘Thank you’ in a stifled voice and made off.

Rachel went back into her sitting-room and shut the door.




                           Chapter Twenty-One


Miss Silver turned round from admiring the view. Her hand was raised and
her lips primmed in reproof.

‘Oh, dear, dear, dear! That was very bad,’ she said. ‘Very bad indeed,
Miss Treherne. If I had not come in when I did—oh, dear me! You were, I
am afraid, about to commit a very grave imprudence.’

Rachel had the oddest sense of guilt. Amusement contended with offence.

Miss Silver came nearer.

‘Shall I tell you what you were about to say when I came into the room?
You said, “Richard—” and what you were going to say was, “I didn’t fall
over the cliff—I was pushed.” Is that not correct?’

Rachel’s eyes sparkled a little.

‘Quite correct. And why shouldn’t I have said it?’

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘Most, most imprudent. But there—we will say no more about it. Shall we
sit down?’

When they were seated she resumed with a good deal of briskness in her
voice.

‘As far as it is possible, I have verified the movements of every member
of this household between the hour of five and ten minutes past six
yesterday evening. That covers the time you were out, does it not?’

‘I left here just before five—about ten minutes to, I think. And I got
up to say good-bye to Nanny at a quarter to six, but she kept me for a
little while after that. It must have been about six o’clock when
I—fell.’ Her voice dropped to the word.

Miss Silver nodded.

‘Yes, I have a little margin. Now, if you will listen—’

She opened a shiny notebook and began to read from it in a quick,
matter-of-fact voice:

‘Miss Comperton:—Seen going upstairs when tea was being cleared—say
five-fifteen. Not seen again until Ivy took her water at half-past
seven. She was then in her dressing-gown.

‘Miss Caroline and Mr Richard:—Went out together at five o’clock. Mr
Richard returned alone at ten minutes past six. I had just arrived
myself, and I saw him come in. No one seems to know when Miss Caroline
came in.’

‘Have you been questioning the servants?’ said Rachel in a tone of
distaste.

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘It was not necessary. Louisa has supplied me with those details which
did not come under my own observation. It was quite easy for her to do
so.’

‘And you trust her?’ There was a faint trace of bitterness in Rachel’s
tone.

‘In a matter of this kind—yes, implicitly. And she knows how to hold
her tongue. Let me resume.

‘Mr Frith:—Retired to the study after tea. He had a portfolio of
sketches and appeared to be sorting them when the maid called Gladys
answered the bell at half-past five. He gave her a letter for the post
in case anyone should be going out. She said he seemed to be very busy
with his paintings, and he had the wireless on. The wireless was still
on when I entered the hall at nine minutes past six, and about a minute
later Mr Frith opened the study, looked out into the hall, and, seeing a
stranger, drew back again.

‘Mr and Mrs Wadlow:—Were not seen by anyone between a quarter-past five
when tea was cleared and half-past seven when Gladys took them their hot
water. Mrs Wadlow was then in her bedroom lying down on the bed, and Mr
Wadlow was in the adjoining sitting-room. The communicating door being
wide open, Gladys was able to see him as she crossed to the wash-stand.

‘As to the members of the domestic staff, I find that from half-past
five until my arrival at nine minutes past six they were in the
servants’ hall listening to a wireless programme from Luxembourg—with
three exceptions. These were the girl Gladys, Louisa, and the chauffeur.
Gladys says she went up to her room after answering the study bell at
half-past five. She had a pair of stockings that she wanted to darn and
a letter to write. She stayed up there until she heard the car. The
chauffeur was in Ledlington meeting my train.

‘Louisa’s account of her own movements is as follows:—She let Noisy out
for a run, and had some difficulty in getting him in again. She says he
was out for a quarter of an hour. She then put on her outdoor things,
lighted the stable lantern, which she tells me she prefers to a torch,
and started out along the cliff to meet you. According to this it must
have been quite six or seven minutes past six before she left the house.
It was probably a little later, or she would have met Mr Richard. How
long would it take her to reach the place where you went over?’

‘About ten minutes.’

‘That would put her arrival with the lantern at about twenty minutes
past six. Does that fit in?’

Rachel said, ‘I think so. Everything happened much more quickly than it
seemed. It was only a quarter to seven when I got back to my room. I
know I looked at the clock and couldn’t believe my eyes. Saying good-bye
to Nanny seemed like hours and hours ago.’

Miss Silver nodded.

‘I once met a very clever man who maintained that time did not exist. I
never could understand what he said, but I knew quite well what he
meant. Well now, Miss Treherne, we must be practical. From these notes
you will realise that it would have been possible for any one of the
following persons to have pushed you over the cliff—Mr Wadlow, Mrs
Wadlow—’

Rachel Treherne burst out laughing.

‘My dear Miss Silver, my sister Mabel would literally die of fright if
she found herself alone on the cliff path after dark. And as for pushing
me over, I can assure you it was a much stronger hand that did that.’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘I will agree that it does not seem probable that Mrs Wadlow was
actively concerned in the attempt. I am merely covering the time between
half-past five and ten minutes past six, and for that period neither Mr
nor Mrs Wadlow has any effective alibi. That is to say, they can
probably speak for each other, but no one else can speak for them. The
other persons without alibis are Mr Frith, Miss Comperton, Louisa
Barnet, the girl Gladys—and lastly, Miss Caroline and Mr Richard. It is
true they left the house together, but they returned separately. I
deduce a quarrel, but we have no means of knowing how long they were
together before they separated, or what they did after that. Now that
covers the people who were in the house, but there are some others who
cannot be excluded from an enquiry. Maurice Wadlow and his sister Cherry
left Whincliff Edge after breakfast yesterday morning. I should like
some evidence as to their subsequent movements. It would not have been
difficult for them to have returned either singly or together. From what
Mrs Wadlow has told me it would seem likely that Miss Cherry was fully
occupied with her own affairs, but this requires corroboration. We have
next to consider Mr Gale Brandon, but in view of the fact that he went
to considerable trouble to pull you up we may perhaps assume
provisionally that he did not push you down. There remains one other
person as to whose movements we have no evidence at all, and that is
your old nurse’s niece, the young woman Ellen.’

Rachel could not help laughing again.

‘Ellen!’

Miss Silver nodded.

‘Yes, Ellen. I should like to hear a little more about her, but first
there is the question of motive. You make your old nurse an allowance?’

‘Yes, she has two pounds a week and the cottage.’

‘And what would happen if you died?’

‘She would go on getting it as long as she lived.’

‘And Ellen?’

Rachel hesitated.

‘Miss Silver—it’s absurd!’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘Abnormal certainly. That is the way with crime. But you have not
answered my question. Would Ellen Capper profit by your death?’

Rachel said with an effort,

‘I have left her a hundred pounds.’

‘And does she know this?’

‘Nanny knows. She was worrying about Ellen’s future, so I told her.’

‘Then of course Ellen knew. And knew just when you visited her aunt, and
when you would be coming away.’

‘Yes, but I was early yesterday evening. I usually stay till after six.’

‘Indeed?’ said Miss Silver. ‘Well, Miss Treherne, I think Ellen must
account for her movements. And that brings me to what I have to say to
you. Miss Treherne, this is no longer a case for a private enquiry
agent. A serious attempt has been made upon your life, and it is my duty
to point out to you that you ought to call in the police.’

Rachel got up. Her face was very pale and her eyes bright.

‘No, I won’t have the police brought into it,’ she said.

‘Miss Treherne, the attempt was a very dangerous one. If it had not been
for Mr Brandon’s presence of mind it would have been successful, and I
should now be waiting here to give evidence at an inquest. I urge you to
inform the police without delay.’

Rachel walked to the window and stood there.

‘I won’t do it.’ After a short silence she turned round. ‘Miss Silver,
how can I? If there were nothing else, think of the talk—local at
first, then spreading until it got into the papers. Haven’t you enough
imagination to see the headlines? I have. Everyone would be brought into
it, everyone’s affairs ferreted out—Cherry’s flirtations—Maurice’s
crazy politics—any stupidity which any of us may have tumbled into—any
debt—any folly however light, however irrelevant. You know as well as I
do they’d all be whipped to a froth and served up to tickle the taste
for scandal. That’s what we’d get if we called in the police. And there
would be worse than that, because all those other things would come out,
and they would arrest Louisa—they’d have to. You must see that I can’t
possibly have the police brought into this.’

‘Miss Treherne—’

Rachel was no longer pale. Her cheeks flamed.

‘Miss Silver, I give you fair warning—if the police are brought in, I
shall deny the whole thing! I shall say that I fell. No one will be in a
position to contradict me except—except the person who pushed me over,
and—and—that’s not a very likely thing to happen, is it?’

Miss Silver said ‘No—’ in a meditative tone. After a slight pause she
continued briskly. ‘Well, I have done my duty. I would like further to
urge upon you that you should immediately protect yourself by destroying
your existing will and making a new one, the provisions of which you
would keep to yourself. This accomplished, and an announcement made to
that effect, your life would, I think, be safe, because the person who
has attempted it could not be sure of having escaped suspicion, and
would be unlikely to incur a fresh risk until the terms of the new will
had transpired.’

‘That is what you said before—in London—when I came to see you.’

‘And I say it again. It is good advice.’

Rachel crossed the room. When she came to the door which led into her
bedroom she leaned against it. It was as if she could not go any
farther. She kept hold of the half-turned handle and breathed deeply.
Then she said,

‘I can’t take it—I can’t. I told you why. They’re my people. They’re
all I’ve got. I love some of them—very much. I owe something to all of
them—because we are a family. I can’t just—save myself and leave them
all—under suspicion. If I took your—good advice, there would never be
any love or confidence again—there couldn’t be. I don’t feel as if I
could live like that. I want to live—very much. But it’s too big a
price—I can’t pay it. I must know the truth. I must know whom I can
trust and whom I can love. I’ll take any risk to find that out.’

She straightened up and looked blindly and piteously at Miss Silver.

‘Find out,’ she said.




                           Chapter Twenty-Two


About a quarter of an hour later Miss Silver emerged from her own room
and descended the stairs. There was no one in the hall, but just as she
arrived on the bottom step Gladys ran out of the study.

‘Oh, miss,’ she said, ‘you’re wanted on the telephone. It’s a London
call.’

Miss Silver did not hurry. She said, ‘Oh, thank you,’ and then, ‘Will
you just show me—’ And when they were both in the study and she found
that it was empty, she said in the voice which was so exactly that of a
retired governess, ‘The call will not keep me for more than three
minutes. There is something I want to ask you about. I wonder if you
would be so kind as to go to my room and wait for me there.’

The call took its allotted three minutes and no more. Miss Silver’s
remarks were few and cryptic. She said, ‘Speaking,’ and then, ‘You have
asked them all?’ And at the end, ‘Yes, it is what I expected. Thank you.
Good-bye.’ After which she hung up the receiver and went upstairs again.

She found Gladys standing by the window, a pretty, serious-looking girl
with a bright colour and rather a nervous manner. She turned round now,
fingering her apron.

‘It’s Ivy does these upstairs rooms.’

Miss Silver smiled agreeably.

‘And very nicely, I am sure. But it was you that I wanted to speak to. I
have Miss Treherne’s permission to ask you one or two questions. The
fact is, someone played a stupid trick on her last night—a very stupid,
startling trick—and I am wondering whether you can help us to find out
who it was.’

‘Me, miss?’

‘Yes, Gladys. Just answer me quite truthfully, and no one will blame you
if you did slip out with Mr Frith’s letter.’

The bright colour became a number of shades brighter.

‘Oh, miss!’

Miss Silver nodded gently.

‘You did, didn’t you? Mr Frith rang the study bell at half-past five and
gave you a letter for the post in case anyone was going out, and I
expect you thought, “Now why shouldn’t I go out?” That was it, was it
not?’

‘There wasn’t any harm—not when he asked me.’

‘And I daresay you have a friend who comes up on the chance of your
being able to slip out.’

The colour faded.

‘I don’t know who’s been telling tales. I’m sure I’ve done no harm.’

‘I am sure you have not. You see, I want you to help me. Miss Treherne
would like to know who played this trick on her, and I thought if you
were out you might have noticed if there was anyone about. What time was
it when you went out?’

‘It was half-past five when Mr Frith rang. I just went up for my coat
and slipped out through the garage so as no one would see me. Not that
there was any harm, but some of them—well, they tease me about Tom.’

‘How long were you out?’

‘The garage clock struck six as I come in.’

‘Did you see anyone—meet anyone?’

‘I went down to the post-box—it’s just outside the gate—and, well, Tom
happened to be there, and we were talking for a bit, and then he said he
was pushed for time and couldn’t come up to the house with me, so he
went off on his motorbike. He works in a garage in Ledlington.’

‘Now, Gladys, where does the cliff path come in? Because that’s what I
want to know about.’

‘Well, the real path comes in just a bit down the road from the gate,
but anyone that was coming to the house, they wouldn’t come down on to
the road at all. They’d take the garden gate up by the garage and come
in that way right off the cliff.’

Miss Silver said, ‘I see—’ And then, ‘You haven’t told me whether you
saw anyone. Did you?’

Gladys looked down and fidgeted with her apron.

‘It was a lot too dark to see anyone.’

‘But you met someone?’

‘Not to say met.’

Miss Silver looked at her sharply.

‘You did not see anyone, and you did not meet anyone. But there _was_
someone all the same.’

‘Only Miss Caroline.’

‘What was she doing?’

‘Coming in off the cliff.’

‘Did you speak to her?’

‘No, I didn’t.’

‘Then how do you know it was Miss Caroline?’

Gladys stood looking down at the hands that were twisting her apron.

‘Come now, it was dark—you couldn’t tell one person from another. You
couldn’t be sure that it was Miss Caroline.’

Gladys’s head came up. Her eyes were wet and angry.

‘Well then, I could! It was Miss Caroline all right, because I could
hear her talking.’

‘Talking? To whom?’

‘To herself. There wasn’t no one else—only Miss Caroline. And I
wouldn’t have told anyone, but she crying and carrying on like you do
when something’s upset you, and seeing I heard her as plain as what I
hear you—well, it was Miss Caroline all right. But it wouldn’t be her
playing any practical jokes, because for one thing she was too upset,
and for another everyone knows what a lot she thinks of Miss Treherne.’

‘Yes, yes,’ said Miss Silver. ‘And now will you tell me what Miss
Caroline was saying?’

Gladys stared.

‘It wasn’t anything to make sense. She was all upset.’

‘Well, I would like you to tell me exactly what you heard.’

Gladys sniffed.

‘When anyone’s upset like that they don’t think what they’re saying—it
don’t mean anything. You could tell she didn’t hardly know what she was
saying.’

‘Miss Caroline may have had a fright as well as Miss Treherne. You see,
Gladys, we want to get to the bottom of this. Will you tell me just what
Miss Caroline said.’

Gladys sniffed again.

‘She was crying something shocking. Just the other side of the garden
gate she was, and she come through it a little way and stood there
crying and talking to herself. And I stood still where I was because of
not letting her know I was there, and the first thing I heard her say
was, “I can’t—I can’t!” and she was crying fit to break her heart. So
then she said, “I can’t do it!” and she stood a bit and went back to the
gate, and she said, “She’s always been so good to us.” And she said, “I
can’t!” and she went out through the gate again, and I come in by the
garage.’

Miss Silver had a puzzled look on her face.

‘And it was six o’clock when you came in?’

‘No—it wasn’t any more than ten minutes to, or maybe a quarter.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘But you said the garage clock was striking six as you came in.’

‘Oh, yes, it was. But it strikes fast that clock does. Barlow, he likes
it that way. He says it’s as good as an alarm.’

‘So you had only been out a quarter of an hour?’

‘Yes, miss. And I went up to my room and did some mending till I heard
the car come back.’

‘Thank you, Gladys,’ said Miss Silver. She crossed to the door and
opened it. ‘I think Miss Treherne would rather you did not speak about
this.’

Gladys gave a final sniff.

‘I’m not one to talk,’ she said.




                          Chapter Twenty-Three


‘I don’t know what girls are coming to,’ said Mabel Wadlow in her
complaining voice. ‘You may think yourself very lucky not to have any.
What with feeling they’re a failure if they don’t marry, and not knowing
who they’ll take it into their heads to marry if they do marry, and out
all night at dances, and off for the week-end without so much as telling
you where they’re going—well, it isn’t any wonder that my health is
such a constant anxiety to Ernest.’

Mrs Wadlow was reclining upon a couch in the drawing-room. Miss Maud
Silver sat in a small armless chair at a convenient angle for
conversation and knitted. The expression upon her face was one of almost
reverential attention. Seldom if ever had Mabel encountered a more
congenial companion. She felt that, for once, here was someone who was
really interested in the state of her digestion, the number of hours
that she had slept or had not slept the night before, the condition of
her heart and pulse, her anxieties about Maurice, and, last but not
least, the very troublesome and inconsiderate way that Cherry was
behaving.

‘I’m sure when I was a girl I would never have dreamt of making myself
conspicuous with a man who was engaged to another girl, but Cherry
doesn’t seem to care. And she is supposed to be going to be a
bridesmaid. Mildred Ross _asked_ her, but of course that was before she
had made herself so conspicuous. And now I wonder if the marriage will
ever really take place, because of course he can’t be in love with
Mildred, and the worst of it is that Cherry isn’t a bit in love with
him—she says so herself. Girls are so frank now, aren’t they? They will
say anything, even to a total stranger. And Cherry says quite openly
that she doesn’t care for Bob—it’s just the money. He is so fearfully
rich, and Cherry says she must have money and she doesn’t care how she
gets it. Now what would you have said if you had heard a girl talk like
that when you were a girl, Miss Silver?’

A reply rose readily to Miss Silver’s lips, but she did not allow it to
pass them. She permitted a faintly shocked expression to appear on her
face, and remarked in a vaguely sympathetic tone,

‘Ah—what indeed?’

Mabel Wadlow thought this a most suitable reply. There was an unwonted
colour in her cheeks and an unwonted animation in her manner as she
said,

‘Of course it isn’t all her fault. It is very hard indeed to be brought
up with money all round you and not to have any of your own.’ She
dropped her voice to a confidential tone. ‘My father made the most
extraordinary will. I wouldn’t speak of it to everyone, but I know that
you are safe. You will hardly believe it, but except for a very, very
moderate settlement made at the time of my marriage I did not receive a
single penny from his estate. You may well look astonished. He left
everything to my sister Rachel—my younger sister. Not by very much of
course, and people often express surprise at hearing that she is younger
that I am. But then an unmarried woman tends to age more quickly—don’t
you agree? You would think, wouldn’t you, that she would have been glad
not to have the responsibility of managing so much money. I think
everyone was surprised that she did not hand my proper share over to me
immediately. It would have saved us all a great deal of trouble and
anxiety, and, as Ernest has always said, what is the good of piling up
an immense fortune which is bound to go to somebody else when you die?
You see, it isn’t as if she had children of her own, or was likely to
have them now even if she were to marry, which is extremely improbable.
Rachel is thirty-eight.’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked.

‘I know a woman of forty-eight who married and had twins,’ she observed
in an artless, gossiping voice.

‘Well, I can’t think how she did it,’ said Mabel Wadlow. ‘And it would
be most unusual. No one in our family has ever had twins. And why anyone
should _want_ to have children? I’m sure they wouldn’t if they knew.
Night after night I lie awake worrying about Maurice, because when you
have only one boy it’s no use anyone saying “Don’t worry.” I’m sure the
last book Ernest got out of the library about Russia was too, too
dreadful. The sanitary arrangements! I don’t know how they printed some
of the things. But of course they don’t mind now, do they? I mean they
don’t mind what they print. But naturally after that I couldn’t sleep a
wink, and Ernest insisted, positively _insisted_ on my taking a sleeping
draught. As a rule I would endure _anything_, but my pulse was so rapid
that he insisted. It is marvellous stuff, you know, and I am very
careful, because when it is finished I shan’t be able to get any more.
It was that very clever Dr Levitas whom we met when we were travelling
in Eastern Europe who gave me the powders. I had the most alarming
attack, and he treated me, and he told Ernest it was one of the most
interesting cases he had ever known. He said he had never had a patient
who was so highly strung, and he told Ernest that I must never be
worried, or thwarted, or allowed to excite myself in any way. But we
have only three or four of the powders left now, and we never had the
prescription, so we have to be very careful of them. They last a long
time of course, because they are very strong and I only take a quarter
of a powder at a time.’

Mabel Wadlow went on talking about her powders, and her pulse, and what
she felt like when she woke up in the night, and what Dr Levitas had
said about her constitution, and how terribly bad it was for her to be
worried, and wasn’t it quite inconceivable that one’s own sister should
allow one to have financial embarrassments when she could so easily
remove them by simply writing a cheque. She continued until Miss Silver
rolled up her knitting and rose.

‘Do you know, I have knitted up all my wool. How kind of you to spare me
so much time. I must go up and wind another skein.’

But she did not go to her own room. She knocked instead on Miss
Treherne’s door, and found her just putting the telephone receiver back
upon its hook.

Rachel turned round with a lost look.

‘Gale Brandon was coming over. I’ve told him not to.’

‘Why did you do that?’ said Miss Silver.

‘He cares for me—I think he cares a lot. I’ve never had—that. I don’t
want it spoilt. I don’t want it—mixed up with all this. I’ve told him
not to come.’

‘Have you told him why?’

Rachel said ‘No.’ And then, as simply as a child, ‘He’s angry.’

Miss Silver said, ‘He will get over that, my dear.’ Her voice was brisk
and kind. ‘I think you are quite right. I do not really want Mr Brandon
here at present, though I think we may be very glad of him later on. In
their own way men can be quite useful. But just now I wish to talk to
you. There are some things which I think you ought to know. Let us sit
down.’

Rachel took a chair.

‘When anyone says that, it always means something unpleasant,’ she said
rather wearily.

‘I am afraid so,’ said Miss Silver.

She was wearing her snuff-coloured dress, with thick brown stockings and
rather shabby black _glacé_ shoes trimmed with ribbon bows. Her high
stuff collar was fastened by a mosaic brooch which represented a pink
and yellow temple against a bright blue sky. The eyes with which she
contemplated Rachel were full of a keen intelligence tempered by
kindness. She said,

‘I have been talking to Gladys. I thought it most improbable that she
would have stayed in her room mending stockings while the rest of the
staff were listening to the wireless. As soon as I heard that Mr Frith
had given her a letter in case anyone should be going to the post I was
convinced that Gladys herself had gone out with it, which proved to be
the case.’

‘It was really very clever of you.’

Miss Silver coughed in a deprecating manner.

‘Oh dear, no, not at all. But I am afraid I have to tell you something
which may distress you. On her way back she heard Miss Caroline weeping
and talking to herself in the dark. The time—which she fixes by the
striking of the garage clock—was a quarter to six. Miss Caroline came
in through the gate from the cliff path in a state of considerable
distress. Gladys heard her say, “I can’t do it—I can’t!” And then she
said, “She has always been so kind to us,” and she ran out on to the
path again, and Gladys came into the house.’

Rachel smiled with stiff lips. She hoped with all her shrinking heart
that Miss Silver did not know how stiff they were.

‘And do you ask me to believe that Caroline—_Caroline_ pushed me over
the cliff?’

‘I don’t ask you to believe anything. I have told you what Gladys told
me, because it is one of the things I think you ought to know.’

‘One of them?’

‘Yes, there are others.’

‘Go on.’

‘I have also been having a conversation with Mrs Wadlow. She talked a
good deal about her daughter. She said that Cherry would do anything for
money. She conveyed to me the picture of a completely ruthless young
woman who would take what she wanted whether it belonged to someone else
or not. I would be glad to have your opinion as to whether this picture
is a true one.’

Rachel’s hand lifted for a moment and then fell again.

‘Yes—Cherry is like that.’

‘Mrs Wadlow also spoke about her son. She seems to resent the fact that
you are not inclined to provide a sum of money which would keep him in
England. May I ask whether Mr Maurice shares this resentment?’

A gleam of rather bitter humour sparkled in Rachel’s eyes.

‘I have no doubt of it. I am a wicked capitalist, and it would be a
highly ethical action to relieve me of as much of this wicked capital as
possible. “Liquidate it” is, I believe, the expression which he would
use. To be really logical, of course, I ought to be liquidated too—’
She stopped short on a quick breath, and slowly, very slowly, her hand
went up to her throat.

‘We will not stress that point,’ said Miss Silver, ‘but I think we will
bear it in mind. Now with regard to Miss Comperton—I have some
extremely unpleasant information for you. I have here particulars of
various sums which you have from time to time entrusted to Miss
Comperton for the benefit of certain charitable institutions. I have
ascertained through an assistant who has made the necessary enquiries on
my behalf that none of these charities has at any time received a larger
donation from Miss Comperton than half a crown.’

Rachel leaned forward, resting her weight on the arms of her chair. That
was what she was chiefly conscious of—weight. Feet cold and heavy as
stone, limbs like lead, and a heart as heavy as grief itself.

‘_Ella?_’ she said.

Miss Silver said, ‘I am afraid so. The manner in which she immediately
pressed me for a subscription made an unfavourable impression. Greed is
a quality which it is very hard to dissemble. I discerned it plainly,
and it suggested the advisability of making enquiries.’

‘Is there anything else?’ said Rachel.

‘No—no—I think I may say not. But I would suggest that the time has
come when you should inform your family of the fact that a murderous
attempt was made upon you last night. I should like you to call them all
together and tell them exactly what happened, and I should wish to be
present.’

Rachel turned extremely pale.

‘Just now—when I was going to tell Richard—you stopped me.’

‘Certainly, Miss Treherne. It would have been giving him an advantage
over the others. You were about to give him this advantage. You were, in
point of fact, assuming his innocence. Now I want to say to you with the
utmost gravity that you cannot afford to assume anyone’s innocence in
this matter. I do not ask you to assume anyone’s guilt, but I do ask you
in every case to adopt the same caution as if you were dealing with a
person whom you knew to be guilty.’

‘But that is horrible!’

‘Murder is horrible,’ said Miss Silver.




                          Chapter Twenty-Four


Upon one pretext or another the family had been assembled in the
drawing-room. Outside the day was dark and lowering. Within, though a
bright fire burned on the hearth, there was a chill, a feeling of
uneasiness.

Richard Treherne was the last to appear. They had waited for him in a
silence which no one except Mabel seemed inclined to break. Cosmo Frith
picked up the clock from the mantelpiece, remarked that it needed
regulating, and busied himself with it.

‘Cosmo can’t keep his hands off a clock,’ Mabel complained. ‘I believe
he winds his own every time he goes near it.’ To which Miss Maud Silver
replied that in her opinion clocks should be wound once a week and never
touched in between.

Mabel Wadlow, who still reclined amongst her cushions and had apparently
neither moved nor attempted to occupy herself, had welcomed her return
with effusion. But before resuming her chair Miss Silver drew it back
into line with the couch in such a manner as to command a view of Miss
Comperton in the armchair on the right of the fire, Mr Frith now
standing fair and square in the middle of the hearthrug with _The Times_
held out at arm’s-length before him, and Rachel Treherne leaning back in
the armchair on the left.

Caroline Ponsonby had pulled a low stool close to Rachel. She sat
forward with an elbow propped on her knee and her chin in her hand. She
had so pale a look that no one could have called her pretty now. Miss
Silver thought her very near the breaking-point, and permitted herself
to wonder what would happen when it came.

Richard Treherne sat on the arm of Rachel’s chair. Miss Silver saw him
stoop down and say a word in her ear, and she saw the answer too, a
shake of the head.

Caroline looked round once, and then went on staring past Cosmo at the
fire.

Ernest Wadlow, who had come in last, brought a chair up to the sofa and
leaned over his wife, asking her solicitously how she felt, and whether
she had remembered to take her drops.

Miss Silver coughed, and, as if it had been a signal, Rachel Treherne
spoke. She turned to Richard and said,

‘Will you find yourself a chair? I have something rather serious to
say.’

Richard did not start, but he was certainly startled. And there was
nothing in that, for, apart from the words, neither Rachel’s voice nor
her manner were natural. She was plainly putting a force upon herself.
Perhaps even now she had Miss Silver’s words in her mind. Perhaps,
instead of assuming Richard’s innocence, she had for a horrible moment
feared his guilt. Miss Silver saw the hand which lay upon her knee
contract upon itself until the knuckles whitened. Then, as Richard moved
to a chair on the other side of the hearth, she saw the hand relax.

_The Times_ rustled as Cosmo turned a page. He said rather abstractedly,

‘Well, my dear, here we are. Do you know—a most extraordinary
thing—here’s a man Ferguson who was at school with me marrying a film
star. Never heard of her, but they call her a star. The man must be off
his head. I beg your pardon, Rachel—what were you going to say?’

‘Something serious?’ said Ernest Wadlow. He rumpled his hair and looked
sideways over the tilted pince-nez. ‘I hope it is nothing—er—that is
to say—nothing—’ His voice trailed off without finishing the sentence.

Mabel raised herself on both hands until she was clear of her cushions
and said in agitated accents,

‘Something has happened to Maurice—I felt sure of it! Oh! Tell me
quickly—is it an accident?’

‘It’s nothing to do with Maurice,’ said Rachel, and in the middle of
saying it a shiver took her, because how did she know that it wasn’t
Maurice’s hand that had pushed her over the cliff?

Mabel sank back, half sketched a palpitation, and then decided to
postpone it until she knew what Rachel had really got to say.

Miss Silver looked at Ella Comperton, and found her nervous—oh dear,
yes, decidedly nervous. She was picking at a little bag and missing the
clasp, and when she found it, fumbling with it. When she did get it
open, all the contents came tumbling out into her lap. The hand with
which she extricated a handkerchief and pressed it to her nose was by no
means steady. The nose twitched, the handkerchief twitched, the hand
twitched. Miss Silver reflected, not for the first time in her career,
that it must be very uncomfortable indeed to have a guilty conscience.
She looked at Richard Treherne, and Richard said,

‘What’s the matter, Rachel? I hope you don’t mean anything really
serious.’

‘I’m afraid I do.’ Rachel was sitting up now with her hands clasped
tightly in her lap. ‘I thought you ought to know—all of you—that
something very serious did happen yesterday. I thought you ought to
know.’

Miss Silver saw all the faces—all except Caroline’s, and Caroline’s
face was turned away from her and turned towards Rachel. Miss Silver
could see nothing of it. But the other faces showed her, surprise—that
was Cosmo Frith; a grave attention—that was Richard; fear—yes,
certainly fear—that was Ella Comperton; and a deepening of the lines of
habitual worry—that was Ernest Wadlow. Mabel Wadlow’s expression
remained a blend of fretful enquiry and her recent relief. If it wasn’t
Maurice it didn’t really matter.

It was Richard who spoke again. He said,

‘What ought we to know?’

Rachel looked round at them all. Then she said,

‘Something happened—when I was coming back from Nanny’s. I said I had
had a fall, and that was true. But it wasn’t all that happened. I didn’t
fall on the path—I fell over the cliff. And I fell over the cliff
because someone pushed me.’

Once more Miss Silver watched the faces and, more revealing still, the
hands.

Ella Comperton said ‘Nonsense!’ but her hands shook. Cosmo Frith
crumpled up _The Times_ and turned with astonishment in every line of
his features. Mabel and Ernest Wadlow did exactly the same thing. They
both said ‘Oh!’ and their mouths dropped open. Richard Treherne made a
sharp movement and said, frowning deeply, ‘Rachel! Good God—you don’t
mean that!’ Caroline made no movement and no sound. Her eyes were fixed
on Rachel’s face, and only Rachel herself could see what was in them.

Rachel said quite firmly, ‘Yes, I do mean it. Someone came up behind me
in the dark and pushed me over the cliff.’

There was some sound from everyone in the room—a catch of the breath, a
sharp release, something very near a gasp—and from Miss Silver herself
a fluttered ‘Dear, dear me!’

‘But, my dear—’ said Cosmo Frith. He let the paper fall and came close.
‘Rachel, my dear, you can’t mean it! Why didn’t you tell us at once?
There must be some madman about—that is, if you really do mean—My
dear, the police should have been informed.’

Miss Silver said in her prim, cool voice,

‘Perhaps the police were informed. Did you inform them, Miss Treherne?’

She received a protesting look which left her quite unmoved. Rachel
said,

‘No.’

‘But, my dear,’ said Cosmo, ‘they ought to be communicated with at once.
Tell me everything you can, and I’ll ring them up—’

Rachel stopped him.

‘No—I won’t call in the police—’ She paused, and added, ‘this time.’

If there was anyone in the room who realised the significance of those
added words, no sign betrayed it.

‘Won’t you tell us exactly what happened?’ said Richard Treherne.

‘It’s all nonsense!’ said Mabel querulously. ‘Because if you went over
that cliff, why weren’t you killed? It really is nonsense.’

Ernest put a hand on her arm.

‘Now, now—don’t excite yourself, Mabel. I don’t really think you should
have been subjected to a shock like this. But what you say is, of
course, perfectly correct.’

Ella Comperton joined the chorus.

‘There is surely some exaggeration. You have, I believe, some bruises
and a scratch or two, but you cannot expect us to believe that you fell
off the cliff on to the rocks and got off with no more than that.’

Rachel sat up a little straighter.

‘If I had gone down on to the rocks, you would all be attending an
inquest instead of sitting here and telling me I don’t know what I’m
talking about.’

Cosmo’s hand came down on her shoulder.

‘My dear, I think we hardly do know what we’re talking about—any of us.
This has been a great shock. Speaking for myself, I—my dear, it’s a
terrible shock.’ His hand pressed down for a moment, and was withdrawn.
He got out a handkerchief and blew his nose. ‘I don’t mind saying that
it’s knocked me over.’

‘Rachel, please tell us exactly what happened,’ said Richard.

She told them without emotion.

‘If I had gone down on to the rocks, as I said just now, I shouldn’t be
here. I didn’t go down. I caught at a bush, and it held me.’

‘Dear me,’ said Miss Silver—‘most providential!’

‘But you couldn’t have been pushed,’ said Ella Comperton. ‘It’s really
quite impossible. Besides, who would push you? It is absurd.’

Ernest Wadlow plucked off his glasses with a nervous gesture and set
them back upon his nose at a different angle.

‘As Ella says—’

‘And how did you get up again?’ said Mabel in an accusing voice.

Caroline leaned forward and caught a fold of Rachel’s skirt. They heard
her whisper something. Richard thought it was ‘You’re _here_.’

Rachel’s eyes went from one to another before she said,

‘I was certainly pushed. I went over the cliff because I was pushed. The
hand that pushed me rolled a stone down over the edge—afterwards—while
I was hanging there—to make sure—at least I suppose it was to make
sure. One of those big stones—it just missed me. I was able to hold on
till Gale Brandon came by. He ran to Nanny’s cottage—and tore up her
sheets to make a rope—and got me up. He saved my life.’

Cosmo blew his nose again, and pushed the handkerchief back into his
pocket.

‘My dear—this is really—I don’t know when I’ve been so shocked. You
will forgive me—you must know what we all feel about you. It seems
quite incredible that anyone should try and harm you. But we’ve got to
be practical. The police should be called in at once.’

‘I have nothing to say to the police.’

‘Dear me,’ said Miss Silver, ‘I should suppose—of course I am very
ignorant about such matters, but surely you must have some idea as to
the identity of the person who attacked you.’ She looked about her as
she spoke, in a manner at once artless and inquisitive. ‘You must have
some idea, surely?’

The room was suddenly silent. It was just as if all the small, usual,
unnoticed sounds had ceased, and because they had ceased you noticed
them. They left that strained, waiting silence.

Rachel broke it. She said, ‘None,’ and all the sounds began again.

Ella Comperton let go the arms of her chair and sat back. Richard got up
in a hurry. Caroline Ponsonby dropped her hand from Rachel’s skirt and
pitched sideways off her stool in a dead faint.




                          Chapter Twenty-Five


‘How is Caroline?’ said Cosmo Frith.

His knock had brought Rachel to her sitting-room door. He stood there
just beyond the threshold looking more perturbed than she had ever seen
him, his usual genial expression quite overcast, his voice uncertain.

‘She’s better. She ought to be quiet. We’ve left her lying down. She
really oughtn’t to talk.’

Rachel went on saying these things to stop herself thinking, to stop
Cosmo asking her why Caroline had fainted. If only everyone would go
away and leave her alone.

But Cosmo was coming in. He took her arm, closed the door, and led her
to a chair. He then seated himself in a purposeful manner. Nothing could
be more certain than what that purpose was. Conversation—and
conversation of the most serious character. He said without any of his
usual poise,

‘My dear, I expect you’d rather be alone, but after what you told us
just now I felt—well, I won’t worry you with what I felt, but there are
things which I am bound to say to you.’

Rachel looked across at him, and her heart warmed a little. She had
always been fond of Cosmo, and without taking his proposals too
seriously had been assured of his affection; but to see him so visibly
shaken by her danger, this did thaw some of the ice about her heart. She
was touched and melted. Her eyes thanked him as she said,

‘It’s over. Don’t let us think about it.’

‘But, my dear, we must. Do you really mean that you won’t call in the
police?’

She nodded.

‘But, my dear—why? Do let me beg of you—’

She shook her head.

‘No, Cosmo.’

‘Why?’

‘I can’t tell you why.’

He leaned forward. ‘My dear, I had better tell you that your story is
being—how shall I put it—questioned. Ernest and Mabel seem to have
made up their minds that the shock of your fall has led you to imagine
that you were pushed. Ella agrees with them. When I came away they were
exchanging stories about people who had suffered from hallucinations and
loss of memory after a shock.’

Rachel’s eyes brightened becomingly.

‘I am sorry to disappoint everybody, but I really did go over the cliff.
Unfortunately for Ella’s theory of hallucination—I feel quite sure that
it was Ella—I have a witness, a perfectly credible witness, in Gale
Brandon.’

Cosmo Frith’s eyebrows drew together.

‘Ah, yes—he saved your life. But it wasn’t the fall they were
questioning, my dear. Honestly, Rachel, can you be absolutely certain
that you were pushed?’

She said ‘Yes’ with stiff lips. Then her composure broke. ‘Do you think
I want to believe it? Do you think I wouldn’t thank God with all my
heart if I could make myself believe that I had slipped? But I can’t,
Cosmo, I can’t. I was pushed, and that stone was rolled down on me, and
though I couldn’t see who did it, I felt—I felt—’ Her voice stopped.

Cosmo repeated the last word.

‘You felt? What did you feel?’

She covered her eyes with her hand and spoke in a whisper.

‘Hatred. Someone wanting to kill me—wanting it terribly—’

His shocked voice brought back her self-control.

‘Rachel! My dear, do you know what you’re saying?’

‘I think so.’

‘That it was someone who knows you—whom you know?’

‘Yes—I think so. I felt the hatred. You don’t hate
someone—you—don’t—know.’

‘Rachel! Rachel!’ He got to his feet with a single abrupt movement and
went past her to the window. Standing there with his back to her, he
said in a shocked voice, ‘That’s not like you. I can’t believe it.
Rachel, I _can’t_ believe it.’

‘I thought I couldn’t either. That’s the horrible part—I’ve come to
believe that someone wants to kill me.’

There was a silence. Then Cosmo turned round.

‘You mean that soberly?’

Rachel said, ‘It’s true.’

‘Then there’s something I ought to tell you.’

He came back and sat down again. ‘You know, my dear, I’m not a busybody,
and I wasn’t going to say anything, because after all it isn’t any of my
business, and you might have thought—well, to be quite frank, I didn’t
want to meddle.’

Rachel lifted her head from her hand.

‘What is all this about, Cosmo?’

His genial ruddiness was still under eclipse. She had never seen him
with such a look of distress, and more than distress—embarrassment.

‘Cosmo—what is it?’

He hesitated, and then said with an effort,

‘My dear, you mustn’t be vexed with me. This fellow Brandon—if anyone
pushed you over the cliff, well, it seems to me that no one had a better
opportunity.’

‘Cosmo!’

‘Rachel, I beg of you to listen. You can be angry with me afterwards.
Did the fellow know that you were going to see Nanny yesterday
afternoon?’

‘Yes, he knew.’

‘And that you would take the cliff path back?’

She was silent.

‘Rachel—did he know that?’

She said, ‘Yes.’

‘He knew it. And he drove up to the cottage in his car. Louisa says that
his car was there, and that he drove you home, and—’

Rachel interrupted him.

‘This is nonsense. Gale Brandon saved my life.’

He looked at her with compassion.

‘You don’t know very much about him, do you? You haven’t known him very
long. Are you sure you even know his real name?’

‘His name is Brandon.’

‘Or Brent,’ said Cosmo Frith. And then, as Rachel stared, ‘Your father
had a partner of the name of Brent, hadn’t he?’

‘_Cosmo!_’

‘You have been trying to find this partner or his son, haven’t you, ever
since my uncle died? The father’s name was Sterling Brent. The son was
only a child when his father was your father’s partner—about five or
six years old, I believe, and everyone called him Sonny, but his name
was Gale—Gale Brent—Gale Brandon.’

‘How do you know?’ said Rachel. ‘Father looked for the Brents, and I’ve
looked for them. We made sure that Sterling Brent was dead, but we went
on looking for the child. How do you know that his name was Gale?
Because that has been one of the difficulties—no one knew his name. My
father, Nanny, Mabel—they only knew him as Sonny. And you never knew
him at all. Why do you say his name was Gale?’

There was a fluctuating colour in her cheek. Her eyes were bright and
restless.

Cosmo nodded.

‘Must seem odd. But odd things happen, my dear. I’ll tell you how this
one happened. Only a month or two ago I was digging into an old trunk
that I’ve had stored since the year one, and there was a packet of
letters from your mother to mine. They were very fond of each other, you
know. Well, I was going to consign them to the flames—no use keeping
old letters—when I saw my own name. And you know how it is, that’s a
thing you can’t pass—at least I can’t. So I looked to see what Aunt
Emily had got to say about me, and this is what it was: “Mr Brent’s
little boy is with us on a visit. They call him Sonny, which I think a
great pity, because it is sure to stick. His own name is Gale, which is
unusual and nice. He is the same age as your Cosmo, and just about the
same height.” There, my dear—are you convinced?’

‘Did you keep the letter?’

He shook his head.

‘I’m afraid not, but that’s what was in it. You may depend upon it this
fellow Gale Brandon is Gale Brent all right. Nanny swears he is.’

‘Nanny?’ Rachel was really startled.

‘Oh, he’s been in to see her once or twice, wanting to know when you
came, and how long you would stay, and she says she could swear to him.
Anyway it’s easily proved, because if he was Sonny Brent, she says his
father had him tatooed—name, or initials, I’m not sure which, up on the
forearm somewhere.

Rachel sat back in her chair.

‘You seem to have gone well into it with Nanny,’ she said.

‘Now you’re vexed,’ said Cosmo in a rueful voice. ‘But that doesn’t
matter—you can be as angry as you like. Only, my dear, you needn’t be,
because it all just came out when we were talking. You know what Nanny
is. And I was going to tell you, and then I thought, “Better not—you
don’t want her to think you’ve been meddling.” But now, my dear—now,
when it’s a question of your life being in danger—now I’m bound to
speak, and you’re bound to listen. Your father quarrelled with Sterling
Brent, and then made a fortune out of the enterprise in which they had
been partners. Don’t you think it’s possible that the man who didn’t
have his share in that fortune should have felt a bitter resentment, and
perhaps have handed it on to his son? You say you were aware of a bitter
hatred. I can imagine that Gale Brent might hate you if he thought your
father had ruined his.’

Rachel said, ‘He doesn’t hate me.’

‘Does he tell you that? Do you believe him? Listen to me, my dear. Who
knew you were going to Nanny’s, and when you would be coming away? Who
was there on the cliff path when you fell?’

Rachel’s eyes brightened.

‘Gale Brandon. And he pushed me over? So far, so good. But why did he
pull me up again?’

Cosmo put up a deprecating hand.

‘Oh, my dear, can’t you find an answer to that? I’m afraid I can. You
had gone over the cliff, but you hadn’t gone the whole way down. You
were still alive, and a potential danger to him. He tries to dislodge
you by rolling down one of the stones from the broken wall, but it’s so
dark he can’t see where you are. And then perhaps something startles
him—a footstep, or a light. He may have seen Louisa’s lantern. She says
she stood for a time at the top of the path to see whether you were in
sight. He may have seen her. He may—I don’t know, but I suppose he may
have had a return to sanity. Hatred isn’t sane, you know. It carries a
man off his balance, and he does what he does, and then—my dear, I
don’t know, but perhaps the sight of Louisa’s lantern may have brought
him back. He begins to realise what he has done, he begins to think.
Anyone may have seen his car outside the cottage. If you are going to
speak and say that you were pushed, he is bound to be suspected. What is
he to do? Just what he does do, my dear—be the first to find you, and
put himself beyond suspicion by staging a gallant rescue.’

Rachel felt a cold horror which seeped into her mind and numbed it.
Amongst all the dreadful things which she had thought of, and to which
she had in some horrible way become accustomed, this new thing loomed up
and dwarfed them till in horror. Always afterwards she knew how there
had come into being that phrase—his heart was wrung. She did actually
feel as if a hand had been laid on her heart—had closed upon
it—twisted it.

She did not know that every vestige of colour had left her face. But
Cosmo Frith showed his alarm by coming to her side. He bent over her at
first with a hand upon her shoulder. Then, still holding her, he went
down upon his knees by the chair.

‘My dear, dear Rachel—don’t take it like that! Has he stolen so much of
you that you can’t bear to know what he is? You’ve only known him for a
few weeks—I’ve loved you all my life. I’ve told you so often and
often—perhaps I’ve told you too often. That’s the way of the faithful
lover—he’s always there, and so—well, everyone gets used to him. But
now, my dear, now—now, when there’s a chance that I can do something
for you at last—won’t you let me do it? Won’t you trust me and let me
take you out of all this? There are wonderful things that we could do
together, wonderful places to see. Forget I’m the cousin you’ve known
all your life, or only remember it to think how long I’ve loved you, and
to think I’m your lover now and always will be, and that if you will let
me I’ll teach you—oh, my dear, I know I can teach you—to love me too.’

Rachel was very deeply moved. This was not the Cosmo with whom she had
shared a cousinly past. There was a warmth and an emotion which he had
never shown her before. The thought that it was her danger which had
evoked it could not fail to call up her own warmest feelings. After the
long strain, the imminent terror, the chill of inevitable suspicion,
this sense of kinship, kindness and protection was astonishingly
grateful. If there had been no Gale Brandon, the moment might have
brought Cosmo all he dreamed of. Even twenty-four hours ago he might
have had his chance, but the water had gone down-stream under
yesterday’s bridge since then, and that flow once past returns no more.

Rachel let herself rest against his arm for a moment. Then she drew back
and said very kindly indeed,

‘Oh, Cosmo dear, I never knew you cared—like that. But—’ She felt the
jerk of his arm at the word.

‘Rachel!’

‘Oh, Cosmo dear, I can’t. It isn’t any good. You’re like my brother—you
always have been—and I just can’t think of you in any other way.’

He drew back, got up, and walked away.

‘Is that your last word?’

‘I’m afraid so.’

There was a horrid strained pause. Then the telephone bell rang. Rachel
had never been so glad to hear it in all her life. As she went to the
writing-table and took up the receiver, Cosmo stopped for a moment
beside her and laid his hand upon her arm. He said quite low,

‘It’s all right, my dear.’

She felt his lips just touch her wrist. Then he went quickly out of the
room and shut the door.

With mingled sadness and relief Rachel turned to listen to what her bank
manager had to say.




                           Chapter Twenty-Six


Miss Silver came along the passage from her room and stopped at Caroline
Ponsonby’s door. She turned the handle noiselessly, and was aware of a
curtained dusk, and silence. These were expected. She pushed the door an
inch or two and listened for the sound of measured breathing. But it was
a very different sound which broke the silence. Miss Silver’s hand
closed hard upon the knob, for what she heard was Richard Treherne
speaking in a tone of agony.

‘Caroline! Caroline! Caroline!’

Miss Silver stood where she was for a moment. Then she pushed the door a
little wider and looked round it. Caroline lay on her bed with her face
half hidden in the pillow, whilst Richard, on his knees beside her,
buried his face in his hands and groaned.

As a gentlewoman, the thought of eavesdropping was extremely repugnant
to Miss Silver. As a detective engaged upon a case of attempted murder,
she treated her scruples with exemplary firmness. She heard Caroline
give a heart-broken sob, and hoped very much that she would be permitted
to hear something rather more articulate.

Her hope was fulfilled. Richard’s head came up with a jerk.

‘Oh, my darling—don’t! You’re tearing my heart out. I tell you I can’t
bear it. You turn away from me, you refuse me, you look at me as if I
was a stranger, you faint—and you won’t tell me why. Do you think it’s
any use pretending with me? Oh, my darling, you know it isn’t. What is
it all about? You’ve got to tell me. You can’t go on like this. You’re
breaking your heart, and you won’t say why.’

Caroline spoke in a muffled voice against her pillow.

‘I can’t go on. I can’t say why. I don’t need to—you _know_.’

‘I know?’

‘You know—I know—I can’t go on.’ She raised her head suddenly.
‘Richard, will you go away—right away and never come back? Will you
swear that you will never come back?’

‘Caroline!’

She caught his wrist and pulled herself up.

‘You must! I tell you I know. You’ve got to go away. It’s killing me.’

‘Caroline!’

She pushed back the hair from her eyes, and staring over his shoulder,
she saw Miss Silver peering round the door. The neatly netted front
disappeared a fraction of a second too late. There was a discreet knock.

When Miss Silver entered Caroline’s face was hidden again. Mr Richard
Treherne was on his feet. If anyone was embarrassed, it was not the
visitor.

‘I thought I heard voices,’ she said brightly. She addressed a glowering
young man. ‘I hope Miss Caroline is feeling better—but I only came to
enquire, not to disturb her. I feel sure she needs quiet and should on
no account be disturbed, but I thought I might just enquire.’

Richard strode to the door and out of the room. For a moment Miss Silver
looked after him with a peculiar expression on her face. Then she
approached the bed.

‘Miss Caroline,’ she said, ‘I am a stranger, but my business in this
house is to help Miss Treherne who brought me here. I think you need
help too. You are in great trouble—you know something which you are
afraid to tell. Believe me, the truth is always best. Sometimes it is
easier to speak to a stranger than to someone in the same family. If you
will tell me what is troubling you, I will do my best to help you. I
have no connection with the police, and this affair is not as yet in
their hands. It is still possible for me to help you. But if you will
not speak to me, let me urge you very strongly to cross that passage and
go to Miss Treherne. She loves you dearly. There is nothing that you
could not tell her. If you remain silent, great harm may come of it.’

There was a pause. Then Caroline raised herself upon her elbow. Her eyes
were wide and blank with misery, her features pinched and drawn, her
colour ghastly. Miss Silver looked at her with compassion. She spoke in
a gentle voice.

‘I heard what you said just now. You told Mr Richard that you knew. What
is it that you know? It would be better for everyone if you would say.’

Caroline stared at her. She said rather wildly,

‘I can’t think—I’m ill—I want to _think_. Oh, won’t you please go
away?’

Miss Silver nodded.

‘Very well, I will go away and leave you to think over what I have said.
I do not wish to hurry you, but it will be better for everyone if you
will make up your mind as quickly as possible.’

She went out of the room and shut the door. As she did so she saw the
girl sink back again and hide her face.




                          Chapter Twenty-Seven


Rachel Treherne’s door opened. Miss Silver was beckoned in.

‘Will you please come here. I must speak to you. Something has
happened.’

Miss Silver looked at her with interest. It was quite obvious that
something had happened. This was a Rachel Treherne she had not met
before, alert, businesslike, angry—yes, certainly very angry.

Rachel shut the door and walked away from it, but remained standing.

‘Miss Silver, my bank manager has just rung me up. A cheque bearing my
signature has been presented, and as it was for a very large sum, he
thought it best to refer to me before cashing it.’

‘Yes?’ said Miss Silver.

‘The cheque was made out to my brother-in-law Ernest Wadlow, and was
endorsed by him in favour of his son Maurice. It was not crossed.’

‘Did you write this cheque, Miss Treherne?’

Rachel’s head lifted. She said in a perfectly level voice,

‘I gave my brother-in-law a cheque for a hundred pounds three days ago.
He asked me not to cross it.’

‘Did he say why?’

‘I understood that he wanted the money for Maurice, and that he thought
the uncrossed cheque would be more convenient.’

‘And it is this cheque which is in question?’

Anger made a very handsome woman of Rachel Treherne.

‘I don’t recognise the amount. I gave Ernest a cheque for a hundred. The
cheque presented was for ten thousand.’

Miss Silver looked very grave.

‘I do not understand,’ she said. ‘The figure would be altered easily
enough, but the words—Miss Treherne, it would be impossible to change
one hundred into ten thousand, unless the forger took the risk of simply
making the alterations and initialling them—and with so large a sum
there would be no chance of that succeeding. The drawer would inevitably
be referred to.’

Rachel shook her head.

‘The words were not altered—they were forged. The number of the cheque
is not the same as the one I drew—it is the next one. And that cheque
is missing from my book. Either Ernest or Maurice must have torn it out
and copied the cheque I drew—with a difference. I felt bound to tell
you about it.’

Miss Silver said ‘Yes—’ in rather an abstracted tone.

Rachel’s foot tapped the floor.

‘Either my brother-in-law or his son had planned to rob me of this
money—they may both have been concerned. Ernest and Mabel are quite
besotted about Maurice. They had been pestering me to give them just
this sum, and I had refused. So somebody forged that cheque. Now I want
you to think what bearing this may have on what happened yesterday.’

Miss Silver gazed at her mildly.

‘A person who had just forged your signature to a cheque for ten
thousand pounds would be the last person on earth to push you over a
cliff before that cheque had been cleared. Your death would have
rendered it quite valueless.’

‘I know that. But think of it this way. You forge a cheque, you let it
go out of your hands, and then you begin to think what a frightful risk
you have run. Even if it goes through, even if you get the money,
there’s bound to be a day of reckoning. You may not be prosecuted, but
you are bound to be exposed and ostracised. You won’t be a part of the
family any more. Don’t you think you might cast about you for some way
out?’ Her voice hardened. ‘Maurice would have come in for just that ten
thousand pounds if I had been killed last night.’

‘And your brother-in-law?’

‘Five thousand. But Mabel would have thirty thousand.’

‘Under your present will?’

‘Yes—that was my father’s wish.’

‘Destroy that will, Miss Treherne, and inform your family that you have
destroyed it.’

‘I have told you that I won’t do that. I would rather die than not get
to the bottom of all this.’

Miss Silver nodded.

‘And you could bear to find Mr Ernest or Mr Maurice there. It would lift
a load off your heart, would it not?’

‘Miss Silver!’

Miss Silver looked at her steadily.

‘Now you are vexed. But it is true. If I could prove to your
satisfaction that the attempt on your life had been made by your
brother-in-law or his son, you would be very grateful to me.’

Rachel lifted her eyes. Anger flamed and went out. A look of direct
simplicity took its place.

‘Yes, that is true. You see I don’t love them—really. So it wouldn’t
hurt that way—I could bear it. It’s not like thinking that someone you
love—has been hating you—all the time.’ She made an abrupt movement.
‘I must see Ernest at once. I should like you to be here. I don’t think
we can go on pretending that you are a governess.’

Miss Silver said, ‘No.’

Rachel rang the bell, and Ivy was despatched to ask Mr Wadlow if he
would come upstairs to Miss Treherne’s sitting-room. They waited for him
in silence, Rachel at her writing-table, Miss Silver seated
unobtrusively in a low chair at the fire. She had, for once, no knitting
to occupy her hands. They rested idly in her lap. The expression of her
face was stern and thoughtful.

Ernest Wadlow came in after his usual hurried manner—always a little
short of time, always a little inclined to consider himself aggrieved.
Neusel, stretched out at full length upon the hearthrug, twitched an
ear, opened an eye, and growled softly in his throat. Mr Wadlow looked
at him with distaste.

‘Did you want me, Rachel? Of course if you did—if there is anything I
can do. I was looking up my Pyrenean notes. I am thinking of _Pyrenean
Pilgrimage_ as a title. I must say alliteration appeals to me. Or,
alternatively, _Pyrenean Pilgrims_, or _Pyrenean Peregrination_. Which
do you prefer?’

‘I’m afraid I can’t give my mind to it just now. I want to speak to you
about a very serious matter.’

Ernest’s eyebrows went up fantastically high. They indicated that his
sister-in-law had obviously forgotten the presence of a stranger. One
does not discuss a serious matter with a stranger sitting by the fire
and obviously prepared to listen.

Rachel had no difficulty in interpreting the eyebrows. She said,

‘Please sit down, Ernest. Miss Silver is acting as my adviser in this
matter.’

It took so little to make Ernest Wadlow look worried that the immediate
puckering of the lines about his eyes and mouth could not be considered
as indicative of an uneasy conscience. The frown which drew his brows
together gave him a puzzled look. He said,

‘My dear Rachel—’ And then, ‘I really cannot see—’

‘Please do sit down,’ said Rachel. ‘Now, Ernest—you remember my giving
you a cheque for a hundred pounds three days ago?’

Mr Wadlow appeared pained.

‘I had thought it a private matter. But it does not signify—you are
naturally quite at liberty. The circumstance is, of course, within my
recollection.’

‘Ernest—what did you do with that cheque?’

‘My dear Rachel, surely that is my affair.’

Rachel said, ‘No.’ And then, ‘I’m afraid I must press the question. Did
you send it to the bank?’

‘No, I did not.’

‘Did you endorse it in someone else’s favour?’

‘_Really_, Rachel!’

‘Did you?’

‘Er—no.’

‘Did you cash it yourself?’

‘You know perfectly well that I have had no opportunity of doing so.’

‘Then have you still got it?’

‘No, I have not.’

‘Then, Ernest, will you tell me what you did do with it?’

Mr Wadlow straightened his pince-nez.

‘I find all these questions very hard to understand. They appear to me
to have a—a tendency which I would rather not particularise, but if I
were forced to do so—’

Rachel leaned forward with her elbow on the table.

‘What’s the good of talking like that, Ernest? Something has gone wrong
about that cheque, and I naturally want to know what you did with it.
The bank has just rung me up.’

Ernest Wadlow gave a sigh of relief.

‘I suppose she forgot to sign her name. She has not your experience in
business matters. But that is scarcely her fault. If the terms of your
father’s will had been different—’

‘Ernest, what are you talking about? _She?_ Did you give the cheque to
Cherry?’

Mr Wadlow registered indignation and surprise.

‘Cherry? Certainly not! She has her dress allowance.’

‘Then it was Mabel—you gave the cheque to Mabel?’

‘I did.’

Rachel bit her lip. She repeated her sister’s name.

‘You gave it to Mabel? I never thought of that. Do you know what she did
with it?’

Ernest fidgeted. The pince-nez dropped, and he had to stoop down to
retrieve it. Once more in an upright position, he was seen to be
slightly flushed.

‘Had you not better ask her?’

‘You endorsed that cheque to Mabel and gave it to her?’

‘And I suppose she was not aware that the bank would require her
signature. But to speak of an omission of that sort as a serious
matter—’ He gave a slight offended laugh.

Rachel opened a drawer, drew out a cheque-book, and handed it across the
table.

‘Will you look at the last two counterfoils, Ernest. The last but one
belongs to the cheque I gave you. The one next to it has never been
filled in. Maurice presented the cheque belonging to that about
three-quarters of an hour ago. The manager was not satisfied and rang me
up. The cheque was made out to you and endorsed to Maurice. It was for
ten thousand pounds.’

Ernest Wadlow’s mouth fell open. His chin dropped and his eyes stared.
They were pale eyes, and with the white showing all about them in a ring
they looked paler still. The open mouth was pale too, and the furrowed
cheeks were grey.

Miss Silver got up from her chair and came over to him. She put a hand
on his shoulder and said firmly and quietly,

‘Pull yourself together, Mr Wadlow. This has been a shock. I will get
you a glass of water.’

He still had that dazed look when she came back with a tumbler from
Rachel’s bathroom. He gulped the water down, and then bent forward,
still clasping the glass.

‘You did not know—did you?’ said Miss Silver. She looked over his bowed
head at Rachel. ‘I think it is Mrs Wadlow whom you must ask for an
explanation. This cheque was made out for the sum to which she
considered Mr Maurice Wadlow was entitled. I find no difficulty in
believing that it was she who forged it. No one who had ever had
anything to do with the management of money could have supposed for a
moment that a cheque for so large an amount could be cashed across the
counter without reference to the drawer. I suspected Mrs Wadlow
immediately. It is probable that Mr Maurice believed the cheque to be
genuine. I can hardly imagine—’

Ernest Wadlow leaned to the writing-table and set down the tumbler with
a force that cracked it. He said in a loud, unsteady voice,

‘Stop—stop! You’re driving me mad!’ He blazed at Rachel. ‘What’s this
woman talking about? I don’t know who she is, and I don’t know what
she’s saying! Ten thousand pounds—across the counter—an open cheque!
It’s lunacy! I never heard of such a thing! And you ask me to believe
that Mabel—that Maurice—’

Miss Silver had seen the door move as he began to speak. It was opened
now with a jerk and Mabel Wadlow walked in. She was highly flushed, and
she appeared to have forgotten that the stairs brought on her
palpitations. She shut the door with quite a vigorous push and said
angrily,

‘Maurice doesn’t know anything about it!’

Ernest sprang up.

‘Mabel!’

‘I knew Rachel would try and put it on Maurice! She has never made the
slightest effort to understand him or appreciate him. It isn’t any good
her saying she has, because she hasn’t. If she had the slightest feeling
for a mother’s anxieties she would have given him the money when I told
her how necessary it was that he should have it and be prevented from
going to Russia, where he might catch anything, and if he brought me a
Bolshevist daughter-in-law, it would break my heart. But what does
Rachel care about that? She only cares about the money. And it isn’t
even as if it was her own money—it was my father’s, and _morally_ half
of it is mine! Are you going to send me to prison, Rachel, for taking
some of my own money in order to save my only son from getting shot in a
cellar or poisoned with bad drains?’

‘Mabel,’ said Ernest in a shaking voice—‘you can’t know what you’re
saying. Rachel, she doesn’t know what she’s saying. Mabel—’

‘Be quiet!’ said Mabel at the top of her voice. ‘I know perfectly well
what I’m saying. I did the whole thing myself. I thought of it the
minute I saw the cheque Rachel had given you. And how she had the
nerve—what was the good of a miserable hundred pounds when Maurice
wanted ten thousand? So I made up my mind what I was going to do, and I
did it very well.’ Mabel actually preened herself. ‘I got another
cheque, and I copied the hundred pounds one, only I put ten thousand
instead of a hundred. And nobody could possibly have told that it wasn’t
Rachel’s signature, so I can’t imagine what all the fuss is about.’

All this time Rachel Treherne had been sitting back in her chair, her
face quite without expression, her eyes raised to her sister’s face. She
might have been watching a scene in which she had no concern. She spoke
now in a cool and level voice.

‘Banks are not usually asked to pay so large a sum across the counter on
an open cheque. The manager asked Maurice to wait, and rang me up.’

Mabel’s face became convulsed.

‘What have they done to him?’ She caught at Ernest, and he put his arm
about her.

‘To Maurice? Nothing at all. Hadn’t you better sit down, Mabel?’

Mrs Wadlow allowed herself to be piloted to the most comfortable
armchair. She clutched her side and enquired eagerly,

‘Then you told them it was all right?’

Rachel’s eyebrows went up.

‘Certainly not. I stopped the cheque.’

‘But Maurice—Rachel, have you no feelings? Can’t you see that you are
torturing me?’

‘I told the manager there was some mistake,’ said Rachel coldly.

Ernest bent solicitously over his wife.

‘My dear, I beg of you—you will suffer for this.’

‘What will he _think_?’ said Mabel with a rending sob.

‘That you or Ernest have forged my name.’ Rachel’s tone was extremely
dry. ‘I am afraid that Maurice will not get that ten thousand.’

The sound of the lunch bell came up from the hall below. Neusel, who
throughout these agitations had remained plunged in slumber, sprang up
instantly and trotted to the door.




                          Chapter Twenty-Eight


Civilised life is at the mercy of its own routine. Whatever may be
happening in a household, breakfast, lunch, tea and dinner follow one
another inexorably. Birth, marriage, divorce, meetings, partings,
estrangements, love, hate, suspicion, jealousy, battle, murder, and
sudden death—through all these comes the sound of the domestic bell or
gong, with its summons to eat and drink. Whether you die tomorrow or
today, another meal is served.

Rachel Treherne paused at Caroline’s door, heard no sound, and followed
the Wadlows downstairs. She was glad to concern herself with ordering a
tray to be sent up, and when she turned to the room again discovered
that there would have to be two trays. Mabel had disappeared, and
Ernest, with reproach in eye and voice, informed her that an attack of
palpitations was imminent, and that he had taken it upon himself to
insist upon a recumbent position and perfect quiet.

‘She over-taxes her strength. We should not have allowed her to excite
herself. She will be prostrated for the rest of the day. Yes, certainly
some lunch—her strength must be maintained. Light and nutritious food
at very frequent intervals, and she should never be thwarted or allowed
to overtax her strength—those are the exact expressions used by Dr
Levitas. No one has understood Mabel’s constitution as he did. I blame
myself, but I cannot exonerate you, Rachel—no sisterly kindness, no
attempt to calm her, no concern about her health.’ All this in low,
agitated tones, with a nervous polishing of the pince-nez and small
fidgeting movements.

Actually, the arrival of Ella Comperton was a relief. Ella’s range of
subjects, from leper colonies to slums, might not be ideal as table
topics, but they were at least preferable to a discussion of Mabel’s
health and the unsisterly harshness with which she had been thwarted in
her maiden attempt at forgery.

Richard and Cosmo both came in extremely late. Richard cut himself a
plateful of cold beef and ate it in silence. Cosmo, on the contrary,
made an excellent lunch and was in quite his best vein—social
anecdotes, art gossip, the Surrealist exhibition in Paris. The flow was
easy and continuous, and Rachel blessed him in her heart. She never felt
fonder of Cosmo than when she had just refused him. No scowls, no sulks,
no lowering of the social temperature. Not like poor Richard. What had
gone wrong between him and Caroline? Some stupid little thing. Lovers
did quarrel about stupid little things. It couldn’t be anything more.
_It—couldn’t—be—anything—worse._

She jerked her thoughts away and heard Cosmo say,

‘Nightmare, not art, my dear Miss Silver.’

Miss Silver crumbled her bread.

‘I speak under correction of course—you will know far more of these
subjects than I do—but is it not the aim of the Surrealists to get away
from the presentation of externals and present those ideas which are
commonly submerged in the unconscious mind?’

Cosmo laughed.

‘And very unpleasant minds they must have, if the ideas are a fair
sample.’

Miss Silver gave a slight cough.

‘Just a little like the Day of Judgment, if I may say so without
irreverence—the secrets of all hearts being opened. There are, I
suppose, very few of us who would not be afraid to see that happen.’ She
continued to crumble the bread. ‘If our thoughts—our intimate, secret
thoughts—were to take shape and stand before us now, I wonder what we
should think of them.’

Cosmo smiled his most genial smile. It was turned upon Rachel.

‘You at least would be safe, my dear. I can imagine that your thoughts
would make charming pictures.’

Rachel felt an almost physical pang. ‘My thoughts? Oh, God!’ There was a
horrified moment when she wondered if she had spoken the words aloud.
Her thoughts—fear, suspicion, agony, resentment, terror—how dreadfully
might these take shape.

Cosmo was still leaning to her and smiling.

‘Singing birds and lilies, my dear.’

Ernest Wadlow straightened his pince-nez.

‘It is an interesting theory. I remember discussing it with Dr Levitas.
He compared the balance of Mabel’s mind, I remember, to a chime of
silver bells. She was very much pleased with the image. We both thought
it a very apt one. The least disturbing element, and the delicate tuning
suffers. I remember quoting Shakespeare’s “Sweet bells jangled out of
tune.” ’

Ella Comperton fixed him with an offended stare.

‘Good heavens, Ernest—what will you say next? That was Ophelia, and she
was mad. There has never been any madness in our family.’

Richard Treherne pushed back his chair, excused himself briefly, and
went out. Rachel, listening, heard him go up the stair. Ernest was still
talking, but she had lost the thread. Her mind seemed to have closed,
and what came through was meaningless sound which made no sense.

The telephone bell rang, and she got up to answer it with relief. With
the receiver at her ear, she heard Cherry’s light laugh, like the echo
of a laugh from a very long way off.

‘That you, Rachel? I haven’t a minute. I’m speaking from a perfectly
foul call-box right off the map. There’s a village, but I don’t know
what it’s called.’

The familiar desire to box Cherry’s ears restored Rachel to her normal
self. She said quite sharply,

‘What are you doing there?’

‘My dear, what _does_ one do in a call-box? I’m telephoning. It smells
of paint and shag.’

‘What do you want?’ said Rachel.

The light laugh came along the wire.

‘My dear—how practical! Well, I thought the parents would like to know
that Bob and I were married this morning. The most expensive sort of
special licence—to make up for no bridesmaids. I couldn’t very well ask
Mildred or any of the lot who were going to be hers—could I? Anyhow
it’s quite legal without. And tell Mummy it was in a church, because
Bob’s Aunt Matilda would have altered her will if it had been a register
office—at least Bob said she would, so I gave in.’

‘Cherry, do you really mean all this?’

‘Absolutely. Tell Mummy to save all fits for the divorce.’

Rachel hung up and came back to her place. She addressed Ernest in a
perfectly expressionless voice.

‘Cherry has married Bob Hedderwick. You had better let Mabel finish her
lunch before you tell her.’

Ella Comperton uttered a faint shriek.

‘But he was engaged to Mildred Ross! Cherry was going to be a
bridesmaid!’

A spark came and went in Rachel’s eyes.

‘A little thing like that wouldn’t worry her.’

Ernest Wadlow said nothing. His pince-nez fell off. His mouth fell open.

Miss Silver turned her head to listen. The faint sound which she had
caught became a sound which everyone could hear—the clatter of feet on
the stair—running feet. The door was flung open and Richard Treherne
came half-way into the room. He looked for Rachel, and spoke to her in a
loud, angry voice.

‘She’s gone! Taken her car! She shouldn’t have been left—she wasn’t
fit!’

They were all up and round him. Rachel put a hand on his arm, and felt
it rigid.

She said ‘Caroline?’ on a mere breath of sound. ‘Are you sure?’

His face frightened her. He shook off her hand.

‘I tell you her car’s gone! And she’s not fit to drive. What’s going on
in this house? What have you done to her?’

‘Richard,’ said Rachel—‘_please_. You must go after her.’

He said violently, ‘Where? Do you suppose I’d lose a moment if I knew
where to go? She gave up her flat last month. Where would she go?’

Miss Silver came forward.

‘Where did she garage her car when she was in London?’

Richard flung round.

‘I’ll try that. I’ll try and catch her on the road.’

He was gone.




                          Chapter Twenty-Nine


Rachel stood quite still and looked after him. She was aware of Miss
Silver leaving the room and going upstairs. Ernest Wadlow went past her,
making small nervous sounds of disapproval. It was a relief to feel that
Cherry’s elopement would be likely to keep him occupied for the rest of
the afternoon. Mabel would certainly be prostrated, and a prostrated
Mabel meant an attendant Ernest. Neither of them would have time to
think about Caroline.

Caroline—she winced away from the name—Caroline in trouble should have
run to her, not away. But she had run away. Why?

Miss Silver was there again, a little out of breath.

‘I went to see if she had left a note. There is nothing.’

Rachel looked at her with wretched eyes.

‘Why did she go?’

‘She knew something, Miss Treherne.’

‘How do you know that?’

‘She did not deny it. I urged her to speak. She wept, and buried her
face in her pillow. I foolishly gave her time to think it over. She has
used it to run away. If she is running away she will want to hide
herself. Do you know what money she has?’

Rachel shook her head. Her lips were trembling. She caught the lower one
between her teeth and held it hard.

‘Not much,’ said Cosmo Frith. There was a disturbed look on his ruddy
face. He addressed Miss Silver. ‘I know she hadn’t much money, because
she asked me—let me see—yes, it was yesterday—whether I could let her
have five pounds as a loan.’

‘Then she had five pounds.’

‘Oh, no’—he laughed a little—‘I hadn’t got it myself.’

Miss Silver’s eyes went from him to Rachel.

‘Then where would she go—without money?’

Rachel said, ‘I don’t know.’

Cosmo Frith shook his head.

‘With your permission,’ said Miss Silver, ‘I will make a more thorough
examination of the room she has been occupying.’

Ella Comperton finished the glass of wine which she had poured out for
herself. She put out her hand to the decanter and drew it back again.

‘Girls are quite unaccountable,’ she said. ‘Of course nothing that
Cherry did would surprise me. I always said that girl would come to a
bad end. But Caroline—she seemed quiet enough. As a matter of fact they
are often the worst. No manners—running off in the middle of lunch like
this and disturbing everyone, though I don’t know why you should look so
tragic about it, Rachel. It’s quite obvious to my mind that she and
Richard have quarrelled, and that they are now going to make it up.
Exceedingly ill bred and mannerless I call it, but no need to be tragic.
Well, I shall go to my room and lie down. I don’t seem to get on very
fast with all the literature Mrs Barber has lent me, but I do find it so
difficult to keep awake in this strong air.’

Rachel followed her into the hall with Cosmo. He put a kindly hand on
her shoulder.

‘My dear, for once Ella is right. You take all this too seriously. It’s
just a tiff, and Richard will be bringing her back to tea. But I hate to
leave you looking like this.’

She turned her head.

‘Are you going? I didn’t know.’

‘My dear, I must. Poor Lazenby is really very ill. You must have heard
me speak of him. Poor fellow—his own enemy, if ever there was one, and
I’m about the only friend he’s got left. But I don’t like leaving you.’

Rachel tried to smile. He was probably right. It was this weight upon
her spirits which burdened everything. Richard would come back and bring
Caroline with him. It was a lovers’ quarrel. There was nothing to be
afraid of. But the fear did not move from her heart.

The clang of the front door bell took her back a pace or two into the
dining-room. She could not imagine who could be ringing at this hour,
but at the sound of Gale Brandon’s voice she came forward with both
hands outstretched, so glad to see him that all her reasons for telling
him to stay away were scattered and forgotten.

Her hands were taken and held in a grasp that hurt. He said,

‘Well, I’m here. Are you going to be angry about it?’

She had tried to smile, but now she did not have to try. She looked up
at him with all her heart in her eyes and said,

‘I’m glad.’

‘The reward of mutiny!’ said Gale Brandon. ‘You told me not to come. I
came. You’re glad. What happens to discipline? You’ll never get over
with it again.’

They were still holding hands, but at this point a movement from Cosmo
Frith attracted their attention. Tact might have indicated a retreat,
but men are very seldom gifted with tact. Mr Frith approached. The hands
fell apart. Rachel flushed high and knew a moment of confusion. If it
had been anyone but Cosmo. He had been so kind. She would not for the
world have hurt his feelings.

But when the moment passed there was no discernible wound. The two men
were talking. Cosmo was saying something about Caroline.

‘She’s gone off in her car, and Rachel is upset about it—thinks she
isn’t fit to drive. She fainted this morning.’

It was all so much in Rachel’s mind that it seemed quite natural that
they should be talking about it. It was only afterwards that she
wondered how the subject had come up, because after all Gale knew so
little of Caroline. She said,

‘I’m dreadfully worried, and that’s the truth. She oughtn’t to be
driving, and we don’t know which way she’s gone. She hasn’t any money.’

As she spoke, the distress which she had felt before came back like a
wave which has retreated only to break with redoubled force. She looked
at him piteously, as if for help, and heard him say,

‘But we’ll go after her—if you’re worried. She drives a small blue
Austin, doesn’t she? If she went through Ledlington, someone will have
noticed it. Anyhow we can try. Get your things on.’

The prospect of doing something put heart into Rachel. She nodded, ran
upstairs, and was putting on her hat, when she was aware of Louisa
behind her looking a good deal like Lot’s wife. She said as briskly as
she could,

‘My coat, Louisa—the very thick brown one. I’m going after Miss
Caroline.’

Louisa did not move. She stood with folded hands and stared at Rachel’s
reflection in the glass.

‘Can’t you let well alone?’ she said. ‘Them that’s gone from this house,
they’d stay gone if you’d let them.’

‘Louie!’

Louisa Barnet raised her voice.

‘And why did they go, Miss Rachel? Answer me that! Because what they’ve
got on their conscience wouldn’t let them stay—that’s why. And no
wonder. Who was out on the cliff when you was pushed over? Mr Richard
for one, and Miss Caroline for another. And she come in crying, as
Gladys could tell you. And three handkerchiefs soaked through in her
clothes-basket that I saw for myself. There isn’t no one cries like that
but what they’ve brought it on themselves—you can’t get from it. And
why did she faint? Will you tell me that, Miss Rachel? No, you won’t.
But Miss Ella, she talked of it free enough—said Miss Caroline just sat
there like an image and might have been deaf and dumb whilst you was
telling how you was pushed over, but when it came to you being asked
whether you had a sight of the one that pushed you and you said “No,”
well, right there and then Miss Caroline fainted.’

Rachel stood up and turned round.

‘That will do, Louie. You are hardly in a position to accuse other
people, you know. I should like my coat.’

This time Louisa brought it. Her hands shook as she held it for Miss
Treherne to slip on. And then she caught a fold of it and spoke in a
strained whisper.

‘Miss Rachel—you’re not going—to send me away?’

Rachel released herself.

‘Where could I send you, Louie?’

The dark eyes flashed.

‘To my grave. And that’s the truth, for I’d not live.’

Rachel walked towards the door. Just before she reached it she said
without looking round,

‘You talk a lot of nonsense, Louie. It isn’t kind, and it isn’t helpful.
If you want to stay you mustn’t say everything that comes into your
head.’

She went out, and found Cosmo waiting for her.

‘Rachel—there’s something I’ve thought of. Can I speak to you?’

She looked at him doubtfully.

‘I’ve been too long already—’

‘It’s about Caroline.’

She opened her sitting-room door and went in.

‘Very well.’




                             Chapter Thirty


Cosmo Frith shut the door behind him and walked over to the hearth. He
stood there, picking up the old-fashioned gilt clock which had belonged
to Rachel’s mother and fiddling with the key. He looked troubled and
serious. Rachel’s heart sank.

‘Cosmo, what is it? Don’t keep me.’

He said, ‘No, I won’t—I won’t—’ But he got no further than that until
she made an impatient movement. Then he put down the clock and said,
‘Don’t, my dear. It’s because it’s so difficult to say.’

‘Difficult or easy, I think you must say it, Cosmo.’

He drew a heavy breath that was like a sigh.

‘Yes, I know—but one puts off—you will probably be angry—’

‘Does that matter?’

He nodded.

‘A good deal—to me.’

A bright exasperated colour was in Rachel’s cheeks.

‘Oh, say it and have done!’ she cried.

He gave her a wounded look.

‘You see—you are angry already. But I can’t help it. I can’t let you go
with that man and not say a word.’

‘You said you wanted to see me about Caroline.’

‘Yes, but I must say this too. I must beg that you will not go off alone
with this man who calls himself Brandon. He is Gale Brent, and if you’ll
give me time I’ll prove it. What do you know of him? He was on the cliff
when you were pushed over it. Suppose he pushed you. Suppose he had some
crazy notion of revenge. Oh, it sounds melodramatic enough, but isn’t
your morning paper full of just that sort of crude melodrama? Can’t you
believe that a man might grow up under a grudge and nurse it until he
was crazy on just that one point? He’d be sane about everything else.
He’d look sane—talk, think, and act as sane men do—and all the time
there would be that one danger-point.’

‘You’re talking nonsense,’ said Rachel coldly. ‘I can’t stop, Cosmo.’

He stood where he was.

‘Rachel, this morning you practically accused us all. You called us
together, and you called in a stranger, and in front of that stranger
you informed us that there had been an attempt on your life. I think we
were all under observation. Will you deny that?’

Rachel gave no answer.

‘You see,’ said Cosmo Frith again. ‘I say—and you don’t deny it—that
we were all under suspicion. Poor little Caroline broke under it. She
fainted, and she has run away. I suppose that proves her guilty—’

‘Cosmo, stop! I can’t listen to this.’

He said, ‘I am afraid you will have to. Don’t you see, it’s the fact
that you’ve put us all in the pillory which gives me the right to tell
you to look elsewhere. My dear, do you really believe that any one of
_us_—It’s too monstrous!’

The phrase which he had used about the morning paper flickered through
Rachel’s mind. She could not bring it across her lips. She said
mournfully,

‘What is the good of this?’

He returned her look with one as sad.

‘No good at all. And you want to go, don’t you? Rachel, I only ask that
you don’t go alone with him. I don’t say come with me, though you know
I’d be proud and happy, but I do say this—go in your own car with your
own chauffeur. Don’t risk yourself alone with Gale Brandon.’

Rachel’s chin lifted.

‘Is that all, Cosmo? Because if it is—’

‘No, it isn’t. There’s still Caroline.’

‘Yes?’

He went to the door and opened it.

‘I have been thinking it over, and I am sure that she would go to town.
You see, she has a key to my flat. I let her have one when she gave up
her own flat a month ago. And she spoke of running up there—oh, one day
this week, I can’t remember which.’

‘Why didn’t you say this before? Why didn’t you tell Richard?’

The concerned look was back on his face.

‘I know—that’s what I’ve been saying to myself. But it had gone clean
out of my mind. It wasn’t until I came to go over it all— You know, I
could go straight up there myself. There’s no need for you—’

She shook her head.

‘No—I must go. I must see her.’

She went past him into the passage, and this time he made no attempt to
stop her, but as she emerged, the half-open door of Caroline’s room was
opened wide and Miss Silver appeared.

‘Miss Treherne—will you spare me a moment?’

It seemed as if everyone was in a conspiracy to keep her. She said
quickly,

‘I ought not to. Won’t later do?’

Miss Silver shook her head with a kind of mild obstinacy.

‘Oh, no, I am afraid not. I really must beg—’

Rachel resigned herself.

‘Cosmo, will you tell Mr Brandon that I won’t be a moment?’

She went into Caroline’s room, and found evidences of a thorough search.
Drawers stood open. The bed had been stripped. On the dressing-table
some torn scraps were laid out to form part of a typewritten sheet. Some
of the words were damaged, and some of the pieces missing. She leaned
with a hand on either side of the table and read what was there to read:

‘Better get away at once whilst we are all at lunch. You’ll get a good
start. That woman is a detective. If you don’t get away, she’ll make you
speak. Take your car to ...’ Here there was a piece missing from the
right-hand side of the paper. The next line began on the left. ‘I’ll
make an excuse and ...’ The end of the line was gone. Below again was a
whole sentence. ‘We can talk things over and decide what had better be
done.’ The bottom part of the paper was torn away. On an isolated scrap
was the name—‘Richard.’

Miss Silver said briskly, ‘Who has a typewriter?’

With her eyes on that last fragment, Rachel Treherne said,

‘Richard.’

‘Do you know if this was typed on his machine? Are there any
peculiarities which you could recognise?’

Rachel said, ‘Yes.’ She put her finger on the first word. ‘The capital
B—it always blurs like that.’ Her eyes went back to the fragment with
the name on it. ‘Is that the signature?’

Miss Silver said, ‘It might be.’

Rachel spoke in a dazed voice.

‘Richard went after her.... If he wrote this ... Where did you find the
pieces?’

‘In the bedclothes. She got the note. She tore it up. She was in great
distress—probably her hand was shaking. The bits dropped and scattered.
Some were on the floor. She managed to destroy the part that mattered
most. We don’t know where they were to meet. Then she hurried on her
things. I found the cupboard door open. A dress had fallen from its
hanger. That drawer was pulled out. The pin-cushion was on the floor,
the bed left anyhow, the lunch-tray not touched. You can see what a
hurry she was in.’

Rachel’s heart cried out in her. Caroline—in such a desperate hurry to
be gone! And where was she going? Where were they all going?

She straightened up slowly, and spoke as if answering her own thoughts.

‘I am going after her. Cosmo thinks she will be at his flat. He says she
has a key. They are like uncle and niece, you know.’

‘And is Mr Frith driving you?’ said Miss Silver.

‘No—I am going with Mr Brandon.’

There was a slight, definite pause. Rachel braced herself. Cosmo had
warned her. Was Miss Silver going to warn her too? She knew that if they
all warned her she would still go with Gale Brandon.

But Miss Silver did not appear to have any warning to give. She said
thoughtfully,

‘Quite so. And Mr Frith stays here?’

‘No. He is going up to town to see a friend who is ill.’

‘Can you give me the telephone number of his flat? If Miss Caroline is
there—’

‘No, no, you mustn’t ring her up—it would be fatal.’

Miss Silver detained her with a touch on the arm.

‘Suppose she is not there—is there anywhere else she might go—to talk
things over?’

Rachel hesitated.

‘She actually spoke of going to town. I think she would go to the flat.
Cosmo seemed sure—’

‘Miss Treherne, is there anywhere else—any lonelier place than a London
flat?’

‘There’s Cosmo’s cottage. I did think of that, but he was so sure—and
she wouldn’t go there by herself. It’s—very lonely. Oh, no, she’d never
go there alone.’

‘She was not to be alone. You forget that. She was to meet the person
who wrote that letter, and talk things over. Where is this cottage?’

‘At Brookenden—about fifteen miles from Ledlington.’

‘In the direction of London?’

‘No, the other way. The cottage is a mile out of the village. Cosmo goes
down there to paint. When he’s not there it’s shut up. Caroline wouldn’t
go there—she didn’t like it.’

‘If she did go there, could she get in?’

‘Oh, yes. He hides the key in the tool-shed. There’s nothing there to
steal, you know.’

‘Is there a telephone?’

‘Yes—he had one put in. I can give you the number. Look here, get
Louisa to ring through. That wouldn’t frighten her—if she’s there. But
she wouldn’t be there yet. Miss Silver, I’m sure she wouldn’t go there.’

‘If you will give me the address and the telephone number—’

She was offered pencil and paper. She scribbled quickly—Pewitt’s
Corner, Brookenden.

Miss Silver bent her brows.

‘A very curious name.’

Rachel turned in the doorway.

‘It’s a corruption of the French _puits_. There was a well there, and
the house was built over it. I’ve always thought it must make it
horribly damp. And Caroline says it gives her the creeps—that’s why I
feel sure she wouldn’t go there. I’ll ring you up if she’s at the flat.’

Miss Silver stood looking at the piece of paper in her hand.




                           Chapter Thirty-One


The car moved away. Rachel Treherne leaned back with relief. She had
taken her way, and she was past caring where it led her. The strain
lessened and she could relax. Whincliff Edge was left behind and its
problems with it. London lay ahead, and problems there to meet her. But
between Whincliff and London for the space of an hour or two there was
only herself and Gale, in a swift-moving world of their own. All that
mattered was that they were here together—shut off—shut in.

As they turned out of the drive on to the Ledlington road, she looked at
him, and found pleasure in the strong set of his head. Everything about
him was strong. She thought, ‘If he hadn’t been so strong, I shouldn’t
be here now.’ And that gave her pleasure too. She said, without any
effort at all,

‘Are you Gale Brent?’

The road was empty. He took a look at her and smiled with his eyes.

‘Now fancy your asking me that! Who’s been talking?’

‘Cosmo. It was in a letter that my mother wrote to his—_Gale Brent_.
Nanny only remembers him as Sonny. _Are_ you Gale Brent?’

He laughed a little. It was a very unembarrassed laugh.

‘I’m Gale Brandon sure enough. That’s my real name. I haven’t come
courting you under false pretences. At least—well, in a way I suppose I
have. But I was going to tell you—I just wanted a clear start. You
know, I fell for you the moment we met—again. And I was going to tell
you all about it as soon as I’d got you safe.’ Her heart beat hard. He
put out his left hand and dropped it on her knee, covering both of hers.
‘Have I got you?’

She said rather inaudibly, ‘You seem to think so.’

The hand closed in a harsh grip that made her gasp.

‘It’s for you to say—at least that seems to be the idea. I don’t know
that I’m dead struck on it. I’ll get you one way or another, but’—his
grip tightened—‘you can say it if you like.’

Rachel found herself laughing without much breath.

‘And if I don’t like?’

His voice changed, took on a boyish, coaxing note.

‘Maybe I’d like to hear you say it after all. I’ve got an idea it would
sound good. Have I got you?’

Rachel said ‘Yes,’ and the hand that was gripping hers let go and came
about her shoulders. The car described a rather odd curve and narrowly
missed the ditch. The hand came back to the wheel, and the voice said
ruefully,

‘That was a bad break. I’ll have to put off making love to you till we
get some place. It’s liable to go to my head, and I wouldn’t like to get
sent to gaol for disorderly driving, or being drunk in charge of a car,
or anything like that. I’d better tell you about being Gale Brent.’

Rachel said, ‘Oh!’ Her mind felt perfectly light, bright, and empty—a
house stripped but not yet garnished. The light was very bright indeed.
She heard Gale say, ‘I’d better tell you about being Gale Brent,’ and in
that light, empty house which was her mind she thought, ‘Then I’d better
listen.’

He said, in the voice she knew best,

‘Well, it’s this way. My father’s name was Sterling Brandon. He
quarrelled with his father about marrying my mother. So then he went
away—cut the old folks right out—didn’t write—didn’t so much as tell
them when I came along—wouldn’t use the name. They must have said
things he couldn’t get over. Anyhow he called himself Sterling Brent. My
mother died when I was about four years old, and that made things worse.
He kind of set up the quarrel for a monument to her. Well, about a year
after that he met your father. They were partners for a bit—something
like a year, I think it was—and that’s when I got acquainted with you.
I’d never seen such a little baby before. I can remember standing there
looking at you and wondering if you were real. I expect I fell for you
then. Your mother was mighty good to me, but I never rightly got on with
Mabel—I didn’t like her, and she didn’t like me. But I was mighty
happy. And then it all came to an end. My father quarrelled with your
father, and I’m bound to confess it’s the likeliest thing in the world
that it was my father’s fault. The fact is he’d a genius for
quarrelling—couldn’t see anyone else’s point of view, and always
thought the other man must be disagreeing with him out of spite. Then
he’d go all hot and kick up a shindy, and the next thing would be you
couldn’t see him for the dust. Well, we went off to some other place—I
forget where. Then he picked up a paper one day and saw that his father
had had a stroke, so he went back. The old man was head of a big real
estate business, and as he didn’t live long enough for them to get
quarrelling again, my father came in for everything. So now you know.’

Rachel wondered whether she did. The words seemed to float round in her
mind without meaning very much. She said vaguely,

‘My father was sorry about the quarrel. He found oil after they broke
the partnership. He wanted your father to have his share. It doesn’t
matter now, does it? I’ll tell you some time.’

He said, ‘No, it doesn’t matter. But there are other things that matter
very much. Look here, could we pull up and talk, because there’s plenty
to talk about.’

It came to Rachel then with an absolute shock that she had forgotten
Caroline. But she remembered her now. Caroline, and her fear for
Caroline—they both came back to her together. She said only just above
her breath,

‘No, no, we mustn’t stop. I must find Caroline. I don’t know what is
happening, and I’m—frightened.’

He put his hand down over hers again, but this time the clasp was gentle
as well as strong.

‘Don’t be frightened, honey—it’ll be all right.’

‘It’s like a bad dream.’

‘Well, you’re going to wake right up. Like to tell me about it?’

‘I don’t know where to begin.’

‘Perhaps I know some already. The little woman in brown, that Miss
Silver—what is she, a detective?—she told me some.’

He felt her start.

‘But—but when—you’ve never met—’

He laughed.

‘That’s where you’re wrong. You went up to put on your hat, your cousin
went after you, and she came down.’

Rachel stared at him.

‘But there wasn’t time.’

‘You can say a lot in five minutes if you don’t waste time handing
bouquets. She got off the mark quicker than anyone I’ve ever known, and
first I reckoned she was crazy, and then I reckoned she wasn’t. She’s
got a way of looking at you that makes you take notice of what she says,
and the first thing she said to me gave me one of the worst jolts I’ve
ever had. She said you didn’t fall over that cliff last night. She said
you were pushed. What have you got to say about that?’

She drew a long sighing breath.

‘It’s true.’

‘Any guess who did it?’

The colour rushed into her cheeks. She dragged her hand away and leaned
back into the corner of the car.

‘That’s the horrible part of it—it might be anyone. It’s been like that
every time, only of course some of the things were just Louisa trying to
frighten me.’

‘Rachel—what are you saying?’ He brought the car to a standstill and
turned to face her. ‘We’ve got to have this out. What is all this? You
know, I can’t drive a car and listen to this sort of thing. You’ve got
to tell me.’

Rachel told him with simplicity and relief.

The money. That was the first thing—the burden of the money—the
responsibility which she was not allowed to pass on or to share.

The family—always there. ‘And it’s nice to have a family, but they
oughtn’t to be always there. One ought to have a life of one’s own. I
didn’t see that in time, but I see it now. You can’t live all those
other people’s lives, and that’s what I’ve been trying to do. I’ve
drained myself, but I’ve never satisfied them. I don’t mean just the
money, but because of the money they’ve looked to me, depended on me.
They’ve expected more and more. It’s all been wrong, and it’s kept on
getting worse—like something out of focus. And then this last week it’s
been a nightmare. When I couldn’t bear it any longer I went to see Miss
Silver. She helped someone I know, so I went to her. She came down here
yesterday evening, and she found out right away that Louisa had been
playing tricks on me. She really is clever, you know.’

‘Why was Louisa playing tricks, and what sort of tricks did she play?’

He saw her colour fade and her eyes darken. Her voice went to an uneven
whisper.

‘She wanted to make me believe that someone was—attempting my life.’

‘And how did she do that?’

‘A slippery step—my curtains on fire—chocolates doctored with
ammoniated quinine—snakes in my bed—’

‘_What?_’

‘Two of Mr Tollage’s adders. Noisy killed them. But Louie didn’t mean to
hurt me—she only wanted to make me believe that someone else was trying
to hurt me. Gale, she swears that there was another slippery step before
she polished hers, and that one of the chocolates had been tampered with
before she touched them. She swears someone was really trying to kill
me. And, Gale, she was right. It wasn’t Louie who pushed me over the
cliff.’

She saw his face hard with anger.

‘How do you know that? She was there, wasn’t she—came along with the
lantern just as soon as I’d pulled you up.’

She shook her head.

‘She loves me. It couldn’t be Louie any more than it could be you.’

He nodded slowly.

‘Yes—I was there too—wasn’t I? Sure it couldn’t have been me?’

Their eyes met. Time stayed. Then she said,

‘You see. That’s all I’ve got—the people I love. That’s something
secure. When that is shaken I can’t bear it. Outside that it’s all
suspicion—no one trusting anyone else—Louie trying to make me believe
it was Caroline, or Richard, or both of them—Cosmo trying to make me
believe it was you—and I, God forgive me, only too ready to believe it
might be Maurice or Ernest, because, you see, I don’t love them.’

He put the Wadlows aside with an odd sweeping gesture.

‘So Cosmo thinks it was me. I’d like you to tell me why.’

He caught the flicker of a smile.

‘Revenge of course—because of your father and my father—the real
full-dress, old-fashioned feud—’

She had the feeling of having stepped over the edge of an unseen drop.
She got a quite unmistakable jolt. It stopped her. She saw his face
harden. There was as sudden an effect of change as if she had looked
from him to his presentment cut in stone. The light was bad. It might
have been an illusion, for before she could draw a breath it was gone
and he was saying,

‘So I pushed you over. But why did I pull you up again?’

She said rather breathlessly, ‘Because you saw Louisa’s lantern of
course. Or you might have had a brain-storm and then felt sorry about
it.’

‘I see—’

He looked up and down the road. A Home and Colonial van went past. Three
young men on bicycles came from the Ledlington direction and flitted
noiselessly by, bodies stooped, heads down, hands gripping. Gloom
swallowed them.

Gale Brandon said roughly,

‘That’s enough about that. I haven’t kissed you yet.’




                           Chapter Thirty-Two


Rachel drew away at last. She had not known that she could feel like
this—to be two people and yet one, to have a double strength and a
double joy, to be the giver of joy and the giver of love to someone
whose only thought was to give and give again. A line of Browning’s came
to her and stayed: ‘Men have died, trying to find this place which we
have found.’ She felt the triumph of that, and its disregard of death.

She wrenched herself as from a dream, putting him away with her two
hands.

‘Gale, we must go on—we must.’

He said reflectively, ‘I don’t know what you want to go on for, honey.’

She shook his arm.

‘I’ve got to find Caroline.’

‘And you don’t know where she is, so how are you going to find her? See
here, if she left while you were at lunch, that would be somewhere
before two o’clock.’

‘We went down to lunch at a quarter-past one. Her tray went up about
five minutes after that. She wasn’t undressed—she could have got away
easily by half-past one. She had had a note telling her to go. It said,
“Better get away while we’re all at lunch—you’ll get a good start,” and
something about Miss Silver being a detective. And then, “They’ll make
you speak if you don’t get away. We can talk things over and decide what
had better be done.” And a bit half torn off, with, “I’ll make an
excuse—” and I thought it meant “I’ll make an excuse and come after
you.” ’

‘How do you know all this?’

‘Miss Silver found the bits all torn up. Some of the pieces were
missing. Richard’s name was on one piece—just the name by itself. That
doesn’t mean he wrote it. It was typed—on his machine. But that
_doesn’t_ mean he wrote it. We don’t know who wrote it, and we don’t
know who she’s gone to meet, because just those bits were destroyed. I
suppose she took care about that.’

‘But Treherne followed her. He did just what the note said—he made an
excuse and followed her.’ He was starting the car as he spoke. ‘Would
you worry about her if you thought she was with Treherne?’

Rachel looked at him.

‘I’m frightened,’ she said. ‘I’ve been frightened all the time. But what
frightens me most is that I can see Miss Silver is frightened too. And I
oughtn’t to be frightened if Caroline is with Richard, because he loves
her.’

Gale Brandon looked straight ahead of him. Visibility was not too good.
He thought, ‘There’s a fog coming up. It’s a bad business.’ He said out
loud,

‘I liked Treherne a good deal, but I don’t know him. Miss Silver said
two things to me, and I’m going to tell you one of them. She said not to
let you out of my sight, so I’d like you to bear that in mind.’

‘What was the other thing?’

‘I’m not telling you that yet. Let’s get back to Caroline. If she got
off by half-past one, she wouldn’t be far off getting to London now.
It’s after three, and I suppose she’d make it in two hours at the
outside.’

‘Not if she had to wait for the person who wrote that letter. And if it
was Richard, he—it must have been quite two o’clock before he got
away.’

‘And you don’t know where he would take her?’

‘No—Cosmo thought.... She has the key of Cosmo’s flat. We thought—’

‘But wasn’t that when you were thinking she had gone alone? Would
Treherne take her there? That’s the point.’

Rachel hesitated.

‘He might—if they wanted to talk—if he wanted to get her away. She
knows something—my poor Caroline—and she’s frightened of being made to
speak. Oh, if I could only find her! She needn’t be frightened—she
needn’t be frightened about anything. She’s got such a tender heart, and
she’s easily hurt. I’m blaming myself terribly, because I’ve seen for
some time that she was upset. But I thought that it was Richard, and I
didn’t like to interfere.’

‘And he’s in love with her, you say?’

‘But she has refused him. That is what I can’t make out. I’ve been so
sure that they cared for each other.’ Gale Brandon was thinking of the
second thing which Miss Silver had said to him—the thing which he had
refused to tell Rachel. ‘Miss Caroline is in great danger.’ That was
what she had said, and that was what had made him wonder if she was
crazy. If she was, then they could have the laugh of her. But if she
wasn’t—well, in that case things didn’t look too good. And one of the
people they didn’t look too good for was Richard Treherne. He said
abruptly,

‘Are you sure she’s not crazy, that Miss Silver?’

‘Quite, quite sure.’

He accelerated sharply. The hedgerows became a mere streak on either
side, with the fog smudging them.

They came to the ugly outskirts of Ledlington, and had to drop again to
thirty. Rows and rows of little new houses, with names like _Happicot_
and _Mon Abri_. Then the older streets, with the older, dingier houses.
And ultimately the narrow High Street with a big new multiple store or a
cinema crammed in here and there among the relics of an Elizabethan, a
Georgian, or a Victorian day.

Right through the town and out on the other side to the London road.
Ledlington talks about a by-pass, but has not yet achieved one. Away
from the lights of the shop windows dusk and the fog darkened the
landscape. Flat fields, cropped hedges, a row of bare elm trees marching
on either side of a lane. A signpost with the words ‘To Slepham Halt.’

They were five miles out of Ledlington, and in that five miles neither
of them had spoken. Rachel said suddenly,

‘Stop, Gale!’

He glanced round at her, his foot on the brake.

‘What is it?’

She said, ‘I don’t know. I feel as if we were going the wrong way. Do
you believe in that sort of feeling?’

‘I should call it a hunch.’ The car slowed down and stopped. ‘Well, I
don’t know. They’re very unreliable things, hunches. I’ve had them and
I’ve acted on them and they’ve come off, and I’ve had them and I’ve
acted on them and they’ve let me down flat. The only sure thing about
them is that you never can tell. What’s your hunch?’

Rachel looked at him rather helplessly. The impulse which had made her
say ‘stop!’ had spent itself. She felt lost and rudderless. She said
uncertainly,

‘I don’t know. I felt we were going the wrong way. I can’t explain it,
but you know—when you wake up in the dark and you don’t know where you
are, and you move, and run into something, and it comes over you that
you’re all wrong—well, that’s the nearest I can get to it.’

‘We haven’t run into anything yet,’ said Gale, with a laugh in his
voice.

‘It was a very strong feeling,’ said Rachel.

‘Haven’t you got it still?’

Her voice sounded forlorn as she said, ‘I haven’t got anything—I’m all
lost.’

He put a consoling arm about her.

‘What do you want to do about it, honey?’

Through the lost feeling something pricked.

‘I think I want to go back.’

‘To Whincliff Edge?’

‘No—no, I don’t think so.’

When he had turned the car he said, ‘All right, where do we go?’

‘Back past the turning for Slepham Halt, and then take the left-hand
fork instead of the one that goes to Ledlington.’

‘And where does that take us to?’

‘It takes us to Pewitt’s Corner,’ said Rachel.




                          Chapter Thirty-Three


When Miss Silver had gone out of the room and shut the door Caroline
Ponsonby sank back upon the pillow and hid her face. She could shut out
the light and her own power to see, but she could not shut out Miss
Silver’s words. She kept on hearing them just as if they were being
actually spoken: ‘What is it that you know? It would be better for
everyone if you would say.... It will be better for everyone if you will
make up your mind as quickly as possible.’ The same words over and over,
and over and over again. And the door shutting softly. Her mind was
tormented, and through the torment the senseless repetition went on, and
on, and on.

When the door was opened again she pressed her face deeper into the
pillow and brought her hands up over her ears so that she might not
hear. She was past coherent thought and at the mercy of one of the
oldest instincts in the world. Hide your eyes, and stop your ears—make
yourself very small and very still, and perhaps they will think you are
dead, perhaps the hunt will go by. Every muscle tensed as she pressed
herself down against the bed, eyes darkened and ears hearing only the
beat of her own blood. She held her breath and waited. No voice came
through the silence. No one touched her.

With an infinite strained caution she slackened the pressure upon her
ears and listened. There was no sound of breathing but her own. She
waited a long time, or what seemed to her a long time, before she lifted
her head and looked about her. There was no one there. She was alone in
the room and the door was shut, but on the table beside her head there
was a folded note with her name typed across it—just Caroline. She
stared at it, and then sat up and pushed back her hair. Everything in
the room stood out very hard, and sharp, and clear. Her name on the note
was black and distinct.

She took up the paper and opened it. There were some lines of typing,
but no beginning. She read:

‘Better get away at once while they are all at lunch. You’ll get a good
start. That woman is a detective.’

A shaft of terror pierced her to the very quick. The hard, clear
outlines were blurred. The typed lines wavered in a mist. She said, ‘I
won’t faint—I won’t—I _won’t_!’ She fought the mist until it went away
and left the paper clear again. She forced her eyes to the sheet and
read:

‘That woman is a detective. If you don’t get away, she’ll make you
speak. Take your car to Slepham Old House. I’ll make an excuse and meet
you there. We can talk things over and decide what had better be done.
You’ll have some time to wait, but you must get out of this or they’ll
make you talk. Drive right into the stable yard and wait.’

There was a line or two more which terrified her. She sat staring at
these lines and at Richard’s name. _Richard—Richard—Richard_—No, she
mustn’t think about Richard, she must only think about getting away.

She ran to the door and locked it, and as she stood there with her hand
on the key she heard the lunch bell ring. Suppose someone came to ask
her how she was. Suppose it was Rachel. _It would surely be Rachel._ And
at the thought Caroline’s heart stood still. This was misery—to feel an
anguish of dread at the thought that it might be Rachel who would come.
‘But I’ve locked the door. Nobody can come if I’ve locked the door.’ She
leaned her forehead against it and closed her lids over eyes that were
hot and dry. They burned behind the lids. She heard Ernest’s voice, and
Mabel’s, and Miss Silver’s. She heard Rachel’s step, she heard it pause.
Then the footsteps went past and the voices died away.

She unlocked the door and went back to the bed. Ivy would come in with a
tray, and she mustn’t find her up.

She began to tear the typewritten note, but her hands were shaking so
much that she bungled it, and before she had finished Ivy came.

As soon as the girl was gone she jumped up. The torn pieces of the
letter spilled. She found some of them and crammed them into her pocket.

A coat—something to cover her head—that old brown hat—some things in
a bag—brush—comb.... No, what did it matter? Her hands shook too much.
Just her handbag then. Money—it doesn’t matter. Nothing matters except
to get away. A scarf? Yes. Only hurry, hurry, hurry!

Then along to the end of the house, past Richard’s rooms, and down the
stair that gave on the garage door. No one there. Rachel’s
car—Cosmo’s—Richard’s—her own little Austin. And the tank was full.

She got in, and found her hands were steady on the wheel. The garage
slipped away. The drive slipped away. The empty Ledlington road began to
slip away. The worst of the terror that had been gripping her relaxed.
She was no longer trapped there in that room for anyone to find, to
question, to torture. She was out of the trap and away. If she was to be
hunted she had a good start, and no one would look for her at Slepham.
That was clever. They would make sure that she had gone to London. She
had talked of going there—was it yesterday or the day before? She
couldn’t remember. Everything was such a long way off.... She stopped
thinking and watched the road.

It was just after half-past two when she turned into the lane with its
bordering elm trees which led to Slepham Halt and the Old House. There
is a deserted lodge on the right-hand side about half-way between the
line and the London road. Caroline drove in through moss-grown pillars
and along a moss-grown drive to the stable yard.

Slepham Old House had stood empty for twenty years. It was a big
ramshackle place of no particular period, and entirely lacking in modern
conveniences. Since there is nowadays no market for an ugly house which
has thirty bedrooms, one bathroom, no electric light, and a range which
takes a ton of coal at a gulp and asks for more, it was likely that it
would continue to stand empty until it fell down.

The stable yard was much enclosed. It had that peculiarly chill,
deserted feeling which settles about places which have been used by men
and left for a long time derelict. There was nothing to bring anyone
there, and so from year’s end to year’s end no one came. The house was
stripped, the outhouses empty and locked, the stables falling down.

Caroline leaned back in the car and closed her eyes. It was very cold,
and it was dreadfully still. She had wanted to be alone, and now she had
her wish. The loneliness of the place began to rise about her like a
tide.




                          Chapter Thirty-Four


‘It’s pretty thick ahead,’ said Gale Brandon. ‘How much farther is it?’

‘I think that last village was Milstead. We ought to have asked.
Everything looks different in a fog,’ said Rachel doubtfully.

‘And if it was Milstead?’

‘Then it’s about three miles on.’

‘I’d like to make it before the last of the light goes.’

‘It’s pretty well gone as it is. It’s nearly four o’clock.’

He looked round at her for a moment.

‘What’s the hurry, honey?’

Everything in Rachel protested. Words rushed to her tongue.

‘There isn’t any hurry—there can’t be. It was you who said there was,
because of the light.’

His eyes went back to the road again.

‘I know—I said it all right. But do you think I haven’t felt you
sitting here beside me trying to push the car? Even when we were doing
fifty I could feel you pushing. A hundred wouldn’t have been fast enough
for you. What’s in your mind, Rachel?’

She struck her hands together.

‘Nothing—nothing—I just want to get there.’

Gale Brandon frowned.

‘There’s no need to tell me if you don’t want to, but we’ve got too
close for me not to know when you’re frightened—and that’s what you are
right now.’

Physically, they were so near that he felt her shudder. She said
quickly,

‘Do you believe that? Do you think that what is in someone else’s mind
can reach one? Because that—that’s what is frightening me.’

‘Then you’d better tell me about it,’ said Gale Brandon. ‘You’ll do
better if you don’t have secrets from me, because I shall always know
when you’ve got them, and I shall always find out what they are, so
it’ll save a heap of trouble if you tell me right away. Now—what is
it?’

She slipped a hand inside his arm.

‘When we were going to London and I said “Stop!” I told you I didn’t
know why I said it, and that was true. Something made me, and I didn’t
know what it was. But I know now. Just before I came away from Whincliff
Edge Miss Silver asked me if there wasn’t anywhere else that Caroline
might be. We’d been talking about her going to London to Cosmo’s flat,
and she asked if there wasn’t anywhere else. I told her about Pewitt’s
Corner, and when she said what everyone always does say, “What an odd
name!” I told her about the house being built over an old well, and
about Pewitt’s being a corruption of _puits_. And I told her Caroline
couldn’t bear the place and I didn’t think she’d go there. She always
did so hate the thought of that well under the scullery floor. There’s a
lid, of course, but she hated it all the same, and I made sure she
wouldn’t go there. But—oh, Gale, it was the well that made me say
“Stop!” ’ Her hand closed desperately on his arm.

‘Yes, honey? Go on. You thought about the well—’

She pressed against him.

‘I didn’t know it was the well. Something frightened me and made me say
“Stop!” Afterwards, when you had turned the car, I knew that it was the
well. I remembered she was afraid of it, and sometimes—when you’re
afraid of something—Gale, do you think it was because Caroline was
thinking about the well that I thought of it?’

It was out. She sat empty and shaking, with the horror put into words.

His left arm came round her.

‘You’re just frightening yourself. Why should she think about the well?’

Her voice came to him, hesitating and stumbling.

‘I—don’t know—it—came to me. I didn’t frighten myself—it frightened
me. Why should I have thought about the well—suddenly—like
that—unless someone—someone else—was thinking about it? And—and
Caroline—the well—it always frightened her.’

She was held in a strong clasp.

‘That doesn’t sound like sense to me.’

‘It’s not sense,’ said Rachel desperately. ‘The things that have been
happening aren’t sense at all. They’re like the things in a bad
dream—they’re nonsense. But oh, Gale, they’re horrible
nonsense—wicked, horrible nonsense.’

‘Steady, Rachel! You’ve got to keep to sense, and so have I. Do we go
straight on here, or is there a turn?’

‘We keep straight on. If that was the turn to Linford, we’re nearly
there—another two miles at most.’

‘That’s better. Does your cousin come down here much?’

‘Cosmo? He lives here most of the summer. He hasn’t been down since the
end of September. He doesn’t care about it in the winter.’

‘And Caroline?’

‘She doesn’t care about it at all.’

‘Then I don’t see—’

She steadied her voice carefully.

‘She—she’s in bad trouble. I don’t know what it is. That’s my fault—I
ought to have made it my business to know. I didn’t like to interfere
between her and Richard, but I oughtn’t to have let it go on—so long.
Only’—she stopped and looked round at him in a bewildered way—‘it—it
isn’t really so long, you know. It isn’t really long at all—it’s just
that this week has seemed like a year.’

‘Well, it’s nearly over now, honey,’ said Gale Brandon.




                          Chapter Thirty-Five


The car came to a standstill with the fog thick about it and the last of
the light no more than a memory.

‘Did you say this was a corner?’ said Gale. ‘Because it’s asking for
trouble to leave the car on a corner in this fog. The first thing anyone
would know about the lights is where they’d hit them.’

‘Yes, it’s a corner. If you turn up the lane, there’s a gate into a
field. You can run the car in there.’

It was easier said than done. Astonishingly difficult to find the gate
and, when found, to back the car in. A narrow lane; deep ruts; a bramble
that scratched her cheek; a smell of straw and cows; the glare of an
electric torch reflected back from an impenetrable wall of fog but
shining suddenly right into Gale’s eyes as he blundered into her—these
things made up Rachel’s picture of the next few minutes. Gale’s
eyes—startling and strange to see them like that—looking out of the
dark, looking for her.

When the car was in the field, they linked arms and began a search for
the wicket gate which led to the house. The ruts were really deep. There
was a ditch on one side of the lane, and a holly hedge on the other.
They groped their way by the hedge, and found it a safe but
uncomfortable guide. At last the gate clicked and let them in upon a
paved stone path with rose bushes wild and unpruned, all their summer
growth upon them to fling a spray of damp against the cheek or catch at
the groping hand. Rachel discovered that you may know a place quite well
and yet feel lost in a fog like this. She knew that they must skirt the
house, but they blundered into soft earth on the one hand and a very
hard wall on the other before they succeeded in doing it. The torch was
extraordinarily little help. It showed the path and nothing much
besides, but when they had felt for and found the tool-shed it did pick
out the key for them, hanging from a nail in the wall, all rusty—a big,
old-fashioned key on a loop of tarry string.

The back door next, and a good deal of fumbling to get the key into the
lock. And all the time Rachel keeping back her own fear with the
insistent thought, ‘There’s nobody here. No car. No light. No sound. No
anything.’ The key went home, and turned easily enough for all its rusty
look. The door swung in. Rachel put out her hand for the torch, missed
it in the dark, and heard it drop between them on the flagged step. She
said ‘Oh!’ on a quick breath, and Gale exclaimed. Their hands met, and
she left the picking up to him. But the torch might just as well have
been left lying on the step, since prod, poke or push as he would, Gale
Brandon could get no spark out of it.

‘If I was a smoker, I’d have matches,’ he said ruefully. ‘I’ve never
fancied it somehow, but here’s where it would have come in useful.’

‘There’ll be matches on the dresser,’ said Rachel—‘and a candle. Stay
where you are and I’ll find them. I know just where they are.’ She took
a step from the door and stopped, hands stretched out before her, eyes
straining against the dark, ears straining too. But there was no need to
strain for the sound which had stopped her. It filled the empty
room—the homeliest, most comfortable sound in the world, the ticking of
a clock.

Rachel stood where she was without moving and listened to it. She knew
the clock quite well—a cheap shiny anachronism which lived on the
scullery dresser and gained a steady five minutes a day. She turned her
head and said in a strained voice, ‘Gale—the clock—it’s ticking.’

He laughed behind her in the dark.

‘That’s just a way they have.’

She drew in her breath sharply.

‘Not when they haven’t been wound for a month. It’s an eight-day clock.
Cosmo hasn’t been down here since the end of September. He said so
yesterday—he said he hadn’t been down. But the clock’s ticking.’

‘Well, honey, anyone could get in with that key. Let’s get those
matches.’

He moved to pass her, but she caught his arm.

‘Wait! Gale, please wait. I don’t like it. I won’t go on without a
light. Have you got matches in the car?’

‘Not a match. But there’s another torch—a small one I keep for a spare.
Do you want me to get it? It’s a long way back to that field.’

Rachel hesitated. To go stumbling and groping back to the car, with
matches a couple of yards away on the dresser? Not reasonable. She said
‘No—’ in a hesitating tone and took a half step forward. And then, in a
rush of terror, reason was suspended.

With that suspense what asserted itself was the oldest fear in the
world—the trap, the snare, the gin, the pit, the terror that lurks
unknown in the dark. She went back, and as Gale Brandon moved to pass
her, she caught at him and held him.

‘I won’t go on without a light. There’s something—’

She heard him laugh.

‘What’s wrong with this place is the damp. It smells like the inside of
a well.’

And with that Rachel knew. She said,

‘Will you stop here—quite still? Will you promise me not to move—at
all?’

‘What’s this?’

‘Will you promise, Gale—will you _promise_?’

‘If you want me to.’

She let go of his arm and began to feel her way round the edge of the
room. First to the corner by the sink, and then to the larder door. Then
to the dresser, feeling, always feeling, with her left hand on the wall
and her right hand at arm’s-length to grope in the empty dark.

She came to the dresser, felt her way along it until her fingers touched
the matches, and struck one. The tiny spirt of light dazzled and
sputtered out, but it had shown her an old brass candlestick, the candle
half burned down. With her back to the door she struck another match,
and this time reached the candle wick. There was a moment whilst the
flame took hold, and another when it flagged and failed. Then the wax
melted and fed it, and the flame rose bright and clear. She turned with
the candle in her hand and held it up. A yard from her feet on the one
side, a yard from Gale’s feet on the other, was the open mouth of the
well, three feet across. If she had taken the second step where she had
taken the first, it would have taken her over the edge. The well was two
hundred feet deep. There was twenty feet of water in it all the three
years when half the wells in the country failed and dried out. There it
was, as black as death, between her and Gale—the old well of the Well
Corner, dug four, five, six hundred years ago for the refreshment of man
and beast. Her thought stood still, and could not move from the well.

Her hand held up the candle stiff and steady, as if the wax, the brass
and her arm were all of one piece. She stared at Gale, and for a moment
he stood rigid, staring back at her. Then he came round the well,
walking slowly and carefully, and took the candle from her hand and set
it down on the dresser and put his arms about her.

They stood like that, locked together, without speaking a word, hardly
drawing breath, because death had been so close and life was
immeasurably sweet.

Presently, when he lifted her face and kissed her, she could feel that
his was wet, and that moved her very much. Her own eyes were dry. The
danger had been hers, not his. Her heart contracted as she thought of
what he might have heard in the dark if she had taken that other step.
She would have cried out, but the sound would have been swallowed up by
the well.... And then there would have been the splash—a long way
down—a horribly long way down.

She found words then to comfort him, as one finds words to comfort a
child who has waked afraid—stumbling words, broken words, that brought
tears to her eyes and a great gush of love to her heart. As he held her
and kissed the tears away, they came so near that it was as if they took
each other then with a true marriage vow—to love and to cherish—till
death us do part—and thereto I give thee my troth.

They drew apart slowly and reluctantly. The candle-light showed the room
with the door open upon the back doorstep, a tin can standing in the
sink, a deal table pushed against the left-hand wall, and, tilted
against it, damp from the breath of the water, the wooden cover which
had been taken away from the well.

Gale let go of her and walked over to it. He touched it and looked back
over his shoulder.

‘Do they keep the well open like this?’

Rachel said, ‘Never.’

In her mind words formed themselves—part of a verse which she knew
quite well, but now she could only remember how it began: ‘They have
digged a pit ...’ The words said themselves over and over. ‘They have
digged a pit—they have digged a pit—they have digged a pit—’ But she
couldn’t remember how the verse should end.

Gale came back to her.

‘Rachel—what does this mean?’

She said, ‘I don’t know.’ But it wasn’t true, because the answer was in
those words which repeated themselves without ceasing in her mind: ‘They
have digged a pit ...’




                           Chapter Thirty-Six


They stood there, very close but not touching one another. The candle
behind them on the dresser threw their shadows forward across the well,
and the uneven brick, and the damp stone of the doorstep beyond it. The
two long shadows lay there and were still.

At last Gale said, ‘What’s in your mind? You’d better tell me.’

She turned towards him then and spoke in an odd clear voice.

‘Someone wound the clock, and someone uncovered the well—’ She turned a
little more and pointed. ‘The clock says half-past four. It gains five
minutes a day. What is the right time?’

They looked together at the watch on his wrist. The hands stood at
five-and-twenty past.

‘Then it was wound yesterday,’ he said.

Rachel said, ‘Yes.’

‘And the person who wound it uncovered the well. Why?’

She had no answer to that.

‘But the clock,’ said Gale Brandon—‘that’s what I can’t understand. If
that cover was taken off the well for the only reason that I can think
of, why in thunder should the person who did it wind the clock?’

Rachel was cold to her feet. There was just one person who could never
keep his hands from a clock. If Cosmo had come here yesterday he could
no more have helped picking up that clock and winding it than he could
have helped breathing. Because the clock would have stopped—it would
have been stopped for nearly six weeks. Cosmo could never pass a clock
that had stopped without winding it. But Cosmo had not been here since
the end of September. He had said so yesterday.

Someone had been here. Someone had wound the clock.

The person who had wound the clock had uncovered the well.

They had digged a pit—

She turned slowly and looked at Gale. His eyes were horrified and stern.
A most dreadful thought came to her. Her lips were suddenly dry as she
said,

‘Caroline!’ She could not get past the name. Her eyes said the rest, and
said it with anguish. ‘Did she come here before us? Are we too late?’

He said ‘No—no—the door was locked. The key was in the shed.’

Rachel’s hand went to her throat.

‘He could have put it there.’

‘Who? My God, Rachel!’

She shook her head, tried to speak, spoke in a whisper.

‘I—don’t—know. Someone—uncovered—the well. Someone—tried—to kill
me. Perhaps Caroline—knew—who it was—’

‘Rachel, don’t look like that! She hasn’t been here—’ He paused, and
added, ‘yet.’

‘How do you—know?’

‘It’s easy. Look here—if this trap was set for Caroline and she had
fallen into it, would the man who had set it lock up and go away and
leave the well uncovered? You can see he wouldn’t. Why, the first thing
he’d do would be to cover up the well.’

Rachel tried twice before she said, ‘Unless he meant it to look—as
if—she had done it herself—’

Gale took her by the shoulders and shook her lightly.

‘Wake up, honey—you’re dreaming. If anyone was planning to make this
look like suicide, he’d have to leave the door open the way it is now,
with the key sticking in it. Quit frightening yourself. Caroline isn’t
here.’

‘Then where is she?’ said Rachel with trembling lips.

‘Well, there are a good few places besides this, honey.’

She put a hand on his arm and stared at the well.

‘That wasn’t done—for nothing. Someone was meant to come in like we
did, and to fall—oh, Gale!—as I should have fallen if I had taken just
one more step!’

Her clasp tightened suddenly. He turned his head. They both held their
breath.

‘There’s someone coming now,’ he said.

For a moment Rachel heard nothing. Then it seemed to her as if she heard
too much. A vague sound without direction which might have been the
sound of a car, but whether coming or going she could not tell. The drip
of the fog from the eaves, from the holly hedge. The faint scuttering
which some small creature would make if it were disturbed—mouse, or
mole, or rabbit—any one of them might be abroad in the dark. And, first
faintly and then clear and distinct, footsteps coming nearer.

She held on to Gale, and they watched the door.

It was Miss Maud Silver who came out of the fog and stood looking in on
them from the worn step. She was dressed with her usual dowdy
neatness—a three-quarter length jacket of black cloth with some rather
worn brown fur at the neck and wrists, and a curious head-dress, half
cap half toque, made of the same stuff as the coat and trimmed with what
was quite obviously a piece of the fur which had been left over. A black
handbag with a shiny clasp depended from her left wrist. She put a hand
in a black kid glove on the jamb of the door and looked in upon the
candle-lit room.

Two doors, one to the left by the sink, one to the right beyond the
dresser. The open well, not flush with the rough brick floor but sunk.
The cover that would bring it to the floor level leaning against that
table on the right. But the well was open now, and the two people who
stared at her across it might have been looking at a ghost instead of at
Maud Silver.

Miss Silver could not remember when she had been frightened last, but
she was frightened now. Under her breath she said ‘Oh dear!’ She then
called up her courage and addressed Gale.

‘Mr Brandon, where is Miss Caroline?’

Gale Brandon said, ‘Not here.’

Miss Silver came across the threshold and closed the door behind her.

‘Are you sure?’

‘Quite,’ said Gale coolly.

‘Why?’

He told her, using the same arguments with which he had comforted
Rachel.

‘We found the door locked, and the key on its nail in the shed. This
damnable thing as you see it. Rachel nearly walked into it. Someone was
meant to walk into it.’

‘Miss Caroline,’ said Maud Silver.

‘Well then, we got here first. If it had been meant to look like suicide
and the trap had been sprung, the door wouldn’t have been locked or the
key in the shed. If it was murder and meant to be hushed up, the cover
would have been put back.’

‘But she may come at any time,’ said Miss Silver—‘unless the plan has
gone wrong. Plans do go wrong, you know. It is not in mortals to command
success.’

All this time Rachel had neither spoken nor moved, but now her hand
dropped from Gale’s arm and she gave Miss Silver back her own question.
Her voice was agonised.

‘Where is Caroline?’

Miss Silver said, ‘I don’t know. I think she will either come here or be
brought here—I feel sure of it. I have been in great anxiety lest I
should get here too late, but the fog delayed us.’

‘Us?’

‘I took the liberty of employing your chauffeur and car, Miss Treherne.
A most reliable man and a very careful driver. He is putting the car in
a place of security, and will then report here. We may be glad of him.
In the meanwhile it is of the first importance that we should show no
light, and that this door should be locked and the key replaced in the
shed. If you will do that, Mr Brandon, and then come to the front door,
I will admit you.’

When he was gone Miss Silver skirted the well, picked up the candle, and
led the way through the kitchen to the living-room. The old beams hung
low and made a trap for innumerable shadows. The front door opened
directly upon the room, and a very steep, narrow stair ran up in the far
corner. Here too the floor was of brick, with a rug or two to soften it.
The cold of the fog and the November night was everywhere. The chill
hearth was clean and bare. A draught came leaking down the stairs. A
faint smell of tobacco hung stale upon the air. The three small windows,
one on either side of the door and one in the left-hand wall, were
curtained with a brightly patterned chintz. Behind the curtains wooden
shutters fitted close and were secured by an old-fashioned iron bar.

Miss Silver applied herself to withdrawing the bolts of the door and
unlocking it. This done, she turned to Rachel.

‘Miss Treherne, we can only do our best. I think he will bring her
here.’

Rachel said in a harsh voice that was strange to her,

‘Why didn’t you go to the police?’

Miss Silver looked at her steadily.

‘What could I have said to them? I know, but I have no proof. You cannot
accuse a man without proof. I was sure that he pushed you over the cliff
last night. I was sure that he would try again in some other way. If I
had come to you and accused him, would you have believed me? I think
that you would not. Because I had no proof—no proof at all. It would
have required more than a stranger’s word to break down the affectionate
trust of years. I thought it best to remain silent, and to keep as close
a watch upon you as possible. But until just before the lunch bell rang
today I did not know that Miss Caroline might be in danger too. I blame
myself. I should have acted more quickly, but I was, I must confess,
outwitted. He is very cunning, and he has a great deal at stake. He
contrived to get her out of the house whilst we were at lunch——’

Rachel interrupted her.

‘She has been gone for more than three hours. Miss Silver, where is she?
It would have taken her no more than an hour and a half to get
here—before the fog came down.’

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘She was certainly not to come straight here. Oh, no, that wouldn’t have
suited his book at all. If she was to stumble into the well in the dark,
then it must be dark before she got here. The torn-off piece of the
letter would have told her where she was to wait for him, and when he
thought it was safe he would pick her up and bring her here—in her own
car if it was meant to look like suicide. Everyone in the house would
have had to say how uncertain and depressed she had been. There would be
no mark of violence, no sign that anyone had laid a hand upon her—no
one _would_ have laid a hand upon her. He would have had the whole night
to make his way to some station from which he could take a train to
town. Yes, I think that it was meant to look like suicide.’

The cold of the house must have got under Rachel’s skin. There was no
warmth in her. The cold seeped into her bones and settled about her
heart. And coldest of all—fear. She said in a dead voice, but quite
calmly,

‘Suppose she wouldn’t come. She was afraid of this place—she hated the
well. Suppose he killed her first. Have you thought of that?’

Miss Silver said, ‘Yes.’ Then she added in her briskest voice, ‘It is
useless to speculate. We will not anticipate evil. We need coolness and
courage. And here is Mr Brandon who has plenty of both.’




                          Chapter Thirty-Seven


When Rachel looked back afterwards at the next half-hour it seemed to
her the longest she had ever known. She would have said the most
dreadful too, if the culmination of that time of waiting had not been
more dreadful still.

At first she was too cold and numb to feel. Prim and efficient as a
governess in her own schoolroom, Miss Silver took command. She talked
apart with Gale. They admitted the chauffeur, Barlow, and talked with
him. Finally they took up their positions. Barlow in the kitchen, with a
candle well shaded and the window made light-proof by hanging a
tablecloth over the drawn curtains. Rachel and Gale together where the
back door opened and, opening, would hide them from view. Miss Silver on
the other side of the door, half-way between the well and the larder,
with the larder door left open as a line of retreat. A log of wood on
the floor beside her.

Rachel’s glance had passed over the log without really seeing it in the
candle-light, but as she stood in the dark and waited, a picture of it
formed on the surface of her mind, as a broken reflection forms again on
water that has grown still. An odd picture. Miss Silver and that log of
wood. Miss Silver pushing the log until it lay right on the edge of the
well. A heavy log. An odd picture. She thought about it with the kind of
apathy which dwells on some trifle because the thing is there and it is
too much trouble to stop thinking about it.

The silence and the cold of the scullery settled about them. The
darkness was unbroken—a darkness that could be felt. The damp of the
well came up with a breath of decay. Rachel’s thought came slowly and
most unwillingly back to the well. It was so very old. More than twice
as old as the house which had been standing over it for three hundred
and three score years. An old well. Very deep, very dangerous. Was this
the first time that a man had made use of its secret danger? No wonder
Caroline was afraid of it.

The numbness of the apathy left her. Her heart turned over.
_Caroline...._ She shuddered from head to foot.

Gale’s hands came down on her shoulders and turned her to him. He held
her, and kissed her again and again. Agony and joy were together in her
mind. She thought, ‘I can’t go on feeling like this—I shall die.’ And
then she thought, ‘This isn’t death, it’s life.’ And then she stopped
thinking at all, and time stopped too.

It began again with the sound of the telephone bell. The bell rang in
the living-room, and with both doors closed the sound had something
ghostly about it, like a sound caught between sleep and waking.

Miss Silver said at once, ‘You go, Miss Treherne—and pray do not forget
the well.’

Rachel wondered whether she would ever be able to forget the well. She
left Gale’s arms—left warmth, protection, comfort—and skirting the
right-hand wall, came past the table to the kitchen door, actually
brushing the well cover as she passed. Her hip touched it, and her hand.
The wood was soft and smooth, almost slimy. The feel of it set her
shuddering again.

Barlow was in the kitchen, sitting up stiff and straight on one of the
kitchen chairs with his candle on the table beside him shaded by an
elaborate contrivance of books and saucepan lids. She signed to him not
to get up, and went through into the living-room, leaving the door ajar.

The telephone was on the wall half-way to the window. The bell was
ringing again, and now it sounded horrifyingly loud. Her heart beat, and
the hand that lifted the receiver shook, and then stiffened into
rigidity, because it was Richard’s voice which struck insistently upon
her ear: ‘Hullo—hullo—_hullo_! Who is there? Is there anyone there?’

Richard—but Richard ... What was the good of saying but? What was the
good—

She put her left hand up to her throat and managed his name.

‘Richard—’

His voice leapt at her.

‘Who is that? Is that Rachel? Oh, for God’s sake!’

Rachel Treherne took a hard pull at herself.

‘Yes, it’s Rachel.’

‘Where is Caroline?’

‘Richard—I—don’t—know—’

‘Where is she? She wasn’t at Cosmo’s flat. Her car wasn’t in the garage.
I thought about the cottage, and started to come down, but this damned
fog is so thick. I thought I’d ring up and tell her I was coming—if she
was there.’

Rachel said steadily, ‘She isn’t here, Richard. Miss Silver thinks—she
may be on her way.’

There was a harsh anger in his voice as he said, ‘After four hours! It’s
nearly four hours since she left Whincliff Edge!’

‘Miss Silver says——’

He broke in more harshly still.

‘What are you doing at the cottage? And Miss Silver—what is she doing
there?’

Her control was slipping. Her voice flinched.

‘She came—to look—for Caroline. I came—with Gale. She isn’t here.
Miss Silver thinks— We’re waiting to see if she’ll come.’

There was a sound that might have been a laugh or a groan. ‘Then I might
as well wait with you. I’ll push on.’

‘Where are you?’

‘Linford.’

She heard the receiver jerk back and the line go dead.

But she ought to have warned him not to drive up to the Corner. She
ought to have thought of that. It was too late now.

She hung up, went back across the kitchen, and opened the farther door.
But as she opened it, there came to her ears the sound of the back door
key grating in the cumbrous lock. Instantly she was alive. She felt a
vital apprehension, a tingling excitement that was partly fear and
partly an astounding relief, because now, at last, the waiting was over.
She stood on the threshold with the door drawn to behind
her—listening—intent.

The lock went back, the back door handle turned, and the door swung in,
covering Gale. Only now he was to move, come forward to the edge of the
door, and be ready. She could see the doorway breaking the solid dark of
the room, and something—someone—like a shadow standing there. The wet
step caught a glimmer from the fog. The shadow stood there and did not
move. Then from the fog a voice called cheerfully,

‘Get a light—there’s a good child. Right across to the dresser. There
are matches there, and a candle.’

The shadow on the threshold stirred. Caroline’s voice said faintly,
‘It’s so dark.’ And at the sound of that faint voice three people in
their hearts said, ‘Thank God!’

The man’s voice came out of the fog again with a bantering sound.

‘Afraid of the dark? You poor tired child! Well, the best way is to make
haste and light that candle. I’ve got my hands too full to do anything
about it myself. Hurry up, child! Don’t you want a cup of tea? I do.’

Caroline said, ‘_Oh, yes!_’ She took a step forward. And then, as Gale’s
arm came round her, she screamed, and Miss Maud Silver pushed the heavy
log out over the edge of the well.... It seemed a long time before the
splash came.

There was no second scream. Even if Gale Brandon’s hand had not closed
down over her mouth, Caroline would not have screamed again. For
twenty-four hours she had walked the edge of an abyss. Now she slipped
over the edge. She let go. She went down.

There is a point at which you no longer care. Caroline reached it and
let go. She did not quite lose consciousness, but she no longer cared
what happened.

Miss Silver moved noiselessly back till she touched the jamb of the
larder door. She stood there with the door in her hand, ready to move
forward or back.

Rachel did not move at all. She had no consciousness of her body. She
was set there in judgment. She was a burning flame of justice.

She waited, looking to the doorway. A second shadow had come up, and
stood there as Caroline had stood a moment before. So little time had
passed—so much had passed—

Cosmo Frith stood between the fog and the well. He was breathing hard.
He stared in upon the dark. The sound of a scream and the sound of a
splash were still in his ears. The dark was before his eyes. But he was
safe. He had only to skirt the well, light the candle which stood ready
upon the dresser, replace the wooden cover, and be gone. There would be
no one to say he had ever come. If the night had been clear, if there
had been the remotest chance that the car—Caroline’s car—might have
been seen and traced, he would have left the well as it was. And the
door open and the car outside. But now he had a better plan than that.
Cover the well and lock the door, and take the car as far from Pewitt’s
Corner as it would go, and then set about an alibi. Town for him.
Telephone calls to friends. Dinner and a theatre. Lights. Music.
People....

It came to him that he had only to walk into that life and be safe.
Caroline had been the danger, and Caroline was gone—the little fool. He
threw up his head and laughed. It had been so easy.

‘You little fool!’ he said aloud, and laughed again. ‘You damned little
fool!’

The words went into the dark. The damp of the well came up against his
face. Get on with it! Get on with the job and get away!

He stepped over the threshold, felt his way by the left-hand wall, and
came to the dresser. The ticking of the clock struck on his ear and
startled him. He must have wound it last night. What a damnable fool’s
trick! What ailed him that he couldn’t keep his hands from a clock? He
must stop that ticking before he left.

Candle and matches were to his hand. Miss Silver had seen to the
replacing of them. He struck a match, bent over the candle, and watched
it light. And looked up to see Rachel standing against the kitchen door.
She was bare-headed. The dark coat which she wore hung open over a dark
dress, and both were indistinguishable against the background of old
time-blackened wood. Her hair showed faintly. Her face was white and
wet. Her eyes took up the candle-light and turned it into flame. She
said in a whispering voice,

‘What have you done with Caroline?’

Cosmo looked back at her, the match with which he had lit the candle
still in his hand. A little smoulder of fire crept up the wood and
burned him. He dropped the match.




                          Chapter Thirty-Eight


Caroline stirred in the dark shadow behind the door. Gale Brandon had
set her down there, and she had fallen in a crouching heap and neither
known nor cared what would happen next. But now she stirred, opened her
eyes upon candle-light, and saw past Gale, who stood between her and the
room, to Rachel whose voice had called her back.

If Rachel was here, she was safe. That was the first thought that came
to her. An old association of safety with the familiar voice. Her
eyelids began to droop, until a second and dreadful thought startled
them wide again. If Rachel was here, nothing was safe any more. The man
in front of her moved forward away from the door. Caroline got to her
knees, and from her knees to her feet. She had run away from Rachel, and
Rachel was here. She must run away again. If she stayed, they would make
her speak. She mustn’t speak. All that was left alive in her said
that—‘You mustn’t speak.’

She held the edge of the door, slid round it, and reached the step. She
had to go farther than that. She had somehow to reach the car, and drive
it away into the fog. Blind and beaten she must do it—for
Richard—_Richard_. The name was like a stab, and the pain of it roused
her. Behind her in the room she heard Rachel say in a strained,
whispering voice,

‘What have you done, Cosmo? You knew the well was open. You sent her
in—Caroline. You heard her scream. You laughed—I heard you laugh.’

‘Better for you if you hadn’t,’ said Cosmo Frith.

Rachel said, ‘Better for both of us.’ And with that Caroline turned and
looked back into the room.

She saw then what she had not seen before—the open well. And beyond it
Cosmo at the dresser, and Rachel leaning back against the kitchen door.

Gale Brandon stood where the well cover tilted against the table. He was
watching Cosmo and Rachel, but she thought they did not see him. They
only saw each other.

Caroline watched too. Rachel’s words said themselves over in her
mind—‘You knew the well was open. You sent her in. You heard her
scream. You laughed.’ She saw Cosmo as if she was seeing him for the
first time. All the easy geniality was gone. There was about him
something which even to her dim and exhausted sense spelled danger. If a
dog looked at you like that, you went warily. But for Cosmo to have that
twisted look of hate for Rachel—for Rachel—

Caroline opened her lips to cry out, but no sound came. She was a yard
from the step. She tried to move, but she had no power. They spoke in
the room—Rachel—Cosmo. Rachel’s words went by her, but she thought she
heard Cosmo say, ‘I’ve always hated you.’

Gale Brandon took a long stride forward. The thing had gone far
enough—too far in his opinion. He stood between Rachel and Cosmo Frith
and spoke his mind.

‘That’s enough of that! You sent that girl to her death, and you’ll have
to account for it!’

His voice rang loud where the other voices had been low. He had come out
of nowhere with the extreme of suddenness.

Cosmo took the shock with a visible stiffening of every muscle. He
straightened up, measured Gale with the eyes which had reminded Caroline
of a dangerous dog, and stepped back. The odds were out of all reason,
and he was not beyond reason yet. There was still the car. If he could
get a start—get away—get over to France. After all, there was no
proof—no possible proof. They could never prove that he had uncovered
the well. Rachel would keep the police out of it if she could.... No,
they’d be bound to come in, with Caroline dead—with Caroline dead. But
it would be an accident. No one could ever prove that it wasn’t an
accident.

All this in the flash between danger and decision. He said aloud,

‘I’ve nothing to say to you, and nothing to account for—to you. There’s
been an accident, and there’s an end to it.’

With the last word he had turned his back and was skirting the well as
he had skirted it before, going right-handed past the larder and the
sink, with his head up and his shoulders squared. Miss Silver saw him
go. And then he came to the open door and stood there face to face with
Caroline. She was a yard away on the flagged path which led up to the
step. A glimmer of candle-light showed him her face drowned in the fog.
Her eyes were open and empty. They looked at him as drowned eyes look
from a dead face. She stood quite still. Everything stood still for a
heart-breaking second. It was when she put out her hand with a wavering
motion that reason went out of Cosmo Frith. He broke suddenly,
dreadfully, screamed some incoherence of horror, and went back from that
weak, groping hand—and back—and back.

Gale Brandon tried to reach him, but was too late. It was no more than
three steps from the doorway to the well—three steps taken at a rush.
And then, hands clutching and balance gone, over the edge and down.

The verse which Rachel had not been able to finish finished itself:

‘They have digged a pit and fallen into it themselves.’




                          Chapter Thirty-Nine


The inquest was over, and a verdict returned of death by misadventure,
with a recommendation by the jury that the well should be permanently
boarded over or furnished with a parapet. There had been terrible
moments of strain, but with so much else that was over, they were over
now.

‘Will you describe what happened, Miss Treherne?’

The grey-haired coroner was a friend of nearly twenty years standing.
Thank God for that.

Rachel could hear her own voice now.

‘Mr Brandon and I found the well uncovered. I very nearly fell into it.
We warned Miss Silver. Mr Brandon and Miss Silver stayed in the
scullery. I went to answer the telephone. When I came back the door was
opening. Miss Ponsonby came in, and Mr Brandon pulled her out of the way
of the well. Mr Frith followed her. He came round the well and lit a
candle.’

‘The room was in darkness?’

‘Yes.’

‘May I ask why?’

‘There was a candle in the kitchen. I spoke to Mr Frith about the danger
of leaving the well uncovered.’

‘Was there a quarrel?’

‘No—I should not have called it a quarrel. I had had a terrible
fright.’

‘Was there any quarrel with Mr Brandon?’

‘No. Mr Brandon told Mr Frith he was accountable for leaving the well
uncovered. Mr Frith turned away and went round the well to the door.
Miss Ponsonby was just outside. I think he did not expect to see her
there. He was startled, and he must have forgotten about the well. He
stepped back, and before Mr Brandon could reach him he overbalanced and
fell.’

‘Mr Brandon did not touch him?’

‘Oh, no.’

‘Did anyone touch him?’

‘No.’

Gale Brandon’s evidence, on the same lines. Then:

‘What did you do after Mr Frith fell?’

‘Miss Silver rang up the police. The chauffeur and I went to try and get
a rope. He must have sunk at once. We did what we could.’

‘I am sure of it, Mr Brandon. Oh, there is one thing—can you account
for the log of wood which was found floating in the well?’

‘I think I can. It was lying near the edge of the well. It got pushed
over.’

‘You noticed it?’

‘Yes, I noticed it.’

Miss Silver’s evidence, very precise and composed:

‘Where were you when Mr Frith fell?’

‘I was just inside the larder, sir.’

‘And why were you in the larder?’

‘I stepped back just inside the door when Mr Frith came in. I wished to
leave him room to pass safely round the well.’

‘And from first to last no one touched Mr Frith?’

‘No, sir—no one touched him.’

‘He was startled at seeing Miss Ponsonby and stepped back?’

‘Yes, sir.’

They had all given their evidence, and it had all been true, only no one
had spoken the key-word which would have resolved death by misadventure
into something darker and more dreadful. If the coroner had his
thoughts, he did not speak them—at least not in that place or at that
time. The jury returned their verdict and dispersed.

The talk at the Magpie went that there was something queer about the
business:

‘What did he want with the girl anyway, taking her off to his place in
all that fog? No good, I’ll be bound.’

‘Scared to death she was, for fear what they’d ask her.’

‘The crowner let her down easy.’

‘Funny thing, all of them rolling up like that, one after the other.’

‘Well, I’d nothing against Mr Frith myself, but they do say ...’

They said a lot.

The inquest was over. The verdict stood. The nine days’ wonder would
pass. Life would go on.

But there was another reckoning, here in the family. A private inquest
where something more than the bare truth would have to be spoken if the
life that went on was to be worth living.

Richard Treherne had come to Pewitt’s Corner to find Rachel sitting on
the step with Caroline unconscious in her arms. Upon that a coming and
going—men with a rope, and the rope too short—the police—the whole
dreadful business of plumbing the well. He had taken Rachel and Caroline
back to Whincliff Edge, and had not seen Caroline again until he saw
her, a sight to wring the heart, across the crowded coroner’s court.

He saw her now on the couch in Rachel’s sitting-room, where this second,
intimate inquest was to take place. He stood inside the door and, seeing
Caroline, saw no one else. A rage against Cosmo took him. She looked so
drained of everything. But her eyes met his, and they were clear. He
thought of the sky after rain, clear above the sea—only Caroline’s eyes
were brown. He came forward, took her hand, kissed it, and sat down.

Rachel was there; Gale Brandon; Miss Silver in a very odd grey dress
which looked as if it had been trimmed with black tape; and Louisa
Barnet—Louisa stiffly apart, wearing her Sunday black and the
expression which she reserved for funerals. Rachel wore black too, but
bright at her breast was the oak sprig she had chosen with Gale. And he
had said he wanted it for the woman whom he had loved all her life. The
diamond leaves and the acorn cups gave out a frosty sparkle. The pearls
had their own soft, changing sheen.

There was a silence, and then Rachel said,

‘We’ve got to talk this out, and then we needn’t ever speak of it again.
I have asked Louisa to be present—she and Miss Silver know why. Miss
Silver has something to tell us, and so has Caroline.’

Noisy, stretched out in front of the fire, opened one eye, rolled over,
and began very delicately to wash his face in exactly the same way as a
cat, except that cats, to whom the toilet is a sacred rite, sit up and
give it their entire attention. Noisy licked lazily, stroked a somnolent
face, and presently sank again into a dream of badgers.

The room was very quiet as Miss Silver said,

‘Where would you like me to begin, Miss Treherne?’

‘I leave it to you.’

Miss Silver moved her chair a little. She could now see everyone quite
comfortably. Dear me, how pale they all were! All except Mr Brandon. It
was impossible to imagine Mr Brandon looking pale. A very forcible type.
He would be a great support to poor Miss Treherne. Wealth was certainly
a terrible responsibility, and the cause of a great deal of crime, but
if you had it you just had to make the best of it.

She cleared her throat, coughed slightly, and began to speak.

‘I came down here at Miss Treherne’s request. She had furnished me with
a list of her relatives and some information regarding them. But members
of the same family are not always the best judges of one another’s
characters. They are apt to be biased by such things as early
association, custom, and personal predilection. I became aware
immediately of the presence of these three factors. Of Mr Richard
Treherne and Miss Caroline Ponsonby Miss Treherne could believe no
wrong. Of Mr Maurice and Miss Cherry Wadlow she was, on the contrary,
quite prepared to believe anything. Between these two extremes there
were, Mr Wadlow and Miss Comperton who irritated her but whom she found
herself unable to suspect, Mrs Wadlow whom she took for granted, and Mr
Frith for whom she had a strong cousinly affection.’

Richard said, frowning, ‘Is all this really necessary?’

It was Rachel who answered.

‘I think so. Please go on, Miss Silver.’

Miss Silver continued.

‘I arrived to find that Miss Treherne had met with a very serious
accident. I was at once placed in a considerable dilemma. The
circumstances were such that the police should have been called in. Miss
Treherne positively refused to allow this. She even went so far as to
declare that she would deny the whole thing if the police were sent for.
I had therefore to do the best I could, and I may say that I have never
had a more serious responsibility laid upon me. I was convinced that
Miss Treherne’s life was being attempted by one of her relatives, and
that this person was a very cool and daring criminal with a great deal
at stake. I discovered that I was not the only person to be convinced of
this. Louisa Barnet was so much convinced of it that she had for some
time been risking her situation and her character in a series of foolish
attempts to alarm Miss Treherne.’

Louisa sniffed. Her eyelids were red, her mouth made a straight, hard
line. At the mention of her name she stared fiercely at Rachel for a
moment and then looked down again at the hands which were clenched in
her lap.

Miss Silver coughed slightly.

‘The attempts were foolish and rather alarming, but I am convinced that
her motive was concern for her mistress. Miss Treherne did become
alarmed, and her alarm brought her to me. I quickly discovered Louisa’s
activities. But Miss Treherne’s accident on the cliff was quite another
matter. In this case I exonerated Louisa immediately. Real devotion is
unmistakable, and it was plain to me that she would have died for Miss
Treherne.’

This time Louisa did not look up. The rigid line of her mouth set itself
more rigidly. Her clenched hands were more tightly clenched.

Miss Silver looked away.

‘I turned my attention to the family circle. In all but Mr Frith I found
uneasiness, nervousness, worry. I took particular notice of Mr Frith
from the beginning. Miss Treherne remaining upstairs after her fall, I
was a complete stranger to everyone present. To everyone but Mr Frith I
was a retired governess of no importance, a _protégée_ of Miss
Treherne’s, quite a negligible person. I therefore saw them all behaving
in a perfectly natural way. They were polite, but they did not trouble
to put on a social manner—they were just themselves. Mrs Wadlow talked
because she likes talking. Mr Wadlow indulged an inclination to fidget.
Miss Comperton endeavoured to enlist my interest pecuniarily in a scheme
for slum clearance. Mr Richard and Miss Caroline were silent because
they were much occupied with their own thoughts. But Mr Frith went out
of his way to make himself agreeable, and I asked myself why he should
do so. He was not the type of man who devotes an evening to the
entertainment of an elderly governess. His conversation convinced me
that he desired to impress me with his talent, his social position, and
his devotion to Miss Treherne. I asked myself why he should be at so
much pains, and it occurred to me that Mr Frith knew who I was, and for
what purpose I had been brought down to Whincliff Edge.

‘As a first step in my investigation into Miss Treherne’s fall over the
cliff, I had to find out where all the other members of the household
had been between five o’clock and six-fifteen. The servants were out of
it, with the exception of Gladys, whose story interested me very much.
First of all, Mr Frith rang for her at half-past five and asked to have
a letter posted should anyone be going out. Secondly, she had taken
advantage of this to run down to the post herself. Now why should Mr
Frith have rung for her? Letters for the post are placed on the chest in
the hall. The chauffeur had just driven into Ledlington to fetch me. If
the letter was not sufficiently important for Mr Frith to have completed
it in time for Barlow to take, why did it suddenly become so important
that he rang for Gladys to ensure its being posted? Or, the pillar-box
being just at the bottom of the drive, why did he not walk down with the
letter himself? It seemed to me that Mr Frith had been anxious to
establish the fact that not only was he in the house at half-past five,
but that he had no intention of going out. He would, however, have had
plenty of time after ringing for Gladys to slip out through his own room
and reach Mrs Capper’s cottage before Miss Treherne emerged. Nobody else
had any sort of alibi, and what looked like an attempt on Mr Frith’s
part to establish one actually aroused my suspicion.’

Gale Brandon was standing on one side of the hearth. He had been
watching Miss Silver as she spoke. He laughed now in a sudden boyish
manner and enquired,

‘Do you always suspect the person who has an alibi?’

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘Not always. But when a person has taken pains to have an alibi, it is
of course a suspicious circumstance.’

‘I was thinking that I hadn’t one of any kind,’ said Gale—‘I was right
there. But I didn’t mean to interrupt you.’

Miss Silver acknowledged the excuse with a slight inclination.

‘To continue. At breakfast next morning Mr Frith’s behaviour confirmed
my suspicions. It was obvious that Miss Treherne’s electric torch had
been tampered with. Mr Richard had put in a fresh battery in view of her
coming home by the cliff path in the dark, yet when she emerged from Mrs
Capper’s cottage the torch gave so feeble a light that she turned it off
and used it only when she came to the worst bit of the road. It was, in
point of fact, too feeble to disclose the identity of any person who
might be following her. Now what did Mr Frith do? He became very much
concerned to prove that there was some mistake, and that the torch was
all right. The mistake, if I may say so, was his, since he once more
attracted my attention. He had no sooner demonstrated that the battery
was in perfect working order than I was convinced that he had first
changed the new battery for an old one and then replaced the new one.
And that is where he made a bad mistake. It is a fatal weakness of the
criminal mind not to be able to leave well alone. If he had been content
to leave the run-down battery in the torch, it would have been much more
possible to attribute its failure to an accident. The battery might have
been defective, or Mr Richard might have put in an old one by mistake.’

Richard Treherne lifted his frowning gaze and said abruptly,

‘Or on purpose. Didn’t you consider that?’

A little prim smile met the frown.

‘Certainly I did, Mr Richard. But you would not in that case have
replaced the battery.’

‘Wouldn’t I?’

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘I think not, Mr Richard. In fact, the whole business of the battery
would be out of keeping with your character. If you will forgive me for
saying so, you have strong feelings and you show them easily. If you
were to commit a crime, it would not be premeditated, nor would it occur
to you to cover up your tracks afterwards. The affair of the battery is
entirely out of keeping with your character as I read it.’

The dark colour came into Richard’s face.

‘And you are never wrong?’

Miss Silver gave a modest cough.

‘Not very often, Mr Richard. So you see, I was convinced that Mr Frith
was attempting his cousin’s life. He was in embarrassed circumstances,
and her death would have brought him a large sum of money. Miss Treherne
admits that she kept the draft of her will in a drawer, and that she is
careless about her keys. I am persuaded that Mr Frith did not neglect
such an opportunity. And now, you see, I was quite sure in my own mind
about Mr Frith, but I had not one iota of evidence to support my
conviction. Miss Treherne was resolved not to call in the police, and Mr
Frith felt so secure that he actually urged her to do so. Meanwhile Miss
Caroline was behaving in such a suspicious manner that had the police
been called in, she would certainly have been the first object of their
attention.’




                             Chapter Forty


‘And now, Caroline,’ said Rachel, ‘will you tell us why you behaved in
this suspicious manner?’

Caroline raised herself, flushed, looked across at Louisa, and then
turned imploring eyes on Rachel.

‘Louisa is one of those who has suspected you,’ said Rachel. ‘If she
does not hear your explanation she will always suspect you. This would
hurt me so much that I ask you for my sake to speak.’

Caroline hung her head. Then she said, speaking very low to Richard,

‘Please go away—a little farther off. Please don’t look at me. I can’t
bear it if you do.’

He took her hand and put it to his lips, then got to his feet with a
jerk and went over to the window, where he stood with his back to the
room, eyes staring blindly and ears straining for the sound of
Caroline’s faint words.

They were very faint indeed. She sat up, put her feet to the ground, and
leaned against the shoulder of the couch, one elbow propped and her
forehead resting on her hand. She said,

‘I didn’t know what to do. I wasn’t fond of Cosmo, but he’s always been
there—like an uncle. I don’t think I thought whether I was fond of him
or not—I don’t know. When you’ve known someone always like that you
don’t think whether they’re telling you the truth.’

Miss Silver spoke in a very kind voice.

‘What did he tell you, Miss Caroline?’

‘It was about Richard—’ She stopped, drew a long sighing breath, and
forced the flagging words. ‘He said when Richard was at college he had
got into difficulties. He said it wasn’t really Richard’s fault—he took
the blame for a friend. He knew I wouldn’t believe anything against
Richard, but he made it seem as if Richard would get into most dreadful
trouble if it came out. He said there was a forged cheque, and if it
came out Richard would go to prison.’

Richard swung round, came back, and stood over her.

‘My darling little lunatic! What are you saying?’

Caroline lifted swimming eyes and said in a choked voice,

‘Go away—I told you to go away.’

‘Well, I’m not going!’ said Richard.

He was so angry, and so relieved, that he would have liked to pick her
up, shake her till her teeth chattered, and then kiss her until she
cried for mercy. He restrained these barbaric desires, sat down beside
her on the couch, and put a firm arm about her waist.

‘So I’m a forger? And a damned fool into the bargain? Go on, darling!’

‘_Please_ go away.’

He did actually shake her a very little.

‘I’m not going. Have you got that? Now get on with this blithering
story. Cosmo told you I had forged a cheque in a spasm of nobility to
save a friend, and you lapped it all up. Is that it?’

Quite a bright colour came into Caroline’s cheeks. She blinked away the
brimming tears and said in a soft, indignant voice,

‘I didn’t! Of course you can make it sound stupid, but if you’d heard
him—’

‘I should have believed I’d forged that cheque. All right, we’ve got
that—he convinced you I was a philanthropic forger. What then?’

Her colour faded again. She looked across to Miss Silver and spoke to
her.

‘I can’t put it the way he put it—I’m not nearly clever enough. And I
trusted him. He said someone had got hold of the story and unless he
could be persuaded to hold his tongue it would ruin Richard. So I gave
him fifty pounds—he said he hoped that would be enough. But afterwards
he said it wasn’t, and I managed another ten. And that wasn’t enough
either.’

Gale Brandon said something into the fire, and Rachel said, ‘Oh,
Caroline _darling_!’ Richard’s arm tightened, and he said angrily,

‘Why on earth didn’t you come to me?’

The brown eyes looked at him with reproach.

‘I couldn’t, because, you see, what he said was quite true. It would
always have been between us if you had known that I knew. That’s true,
Richard—you wouldn’t have liked me to know.’

‘That I was a forger! I suppose I wouldn’t! Go on!’

Her eyes went back to Miss Silver.

‘I’m not clever. He made it sound quite reasonable. He said this man had
got the cheque, and if I wouldn’t buy it he would go to Richard. I
thought that would hurt him so frightfully—oh, can’t you see what I
thought? It was all years and years ago. I felt I would do anything to
prevent him from dragging it up—I _didn’t_ want Richard to know. I
couldn’t touch most of my money because of its being in trust. I sold
out two hundred pounds that Aunt Mary left me, and I gave up my flat.
And when that wasn’t enough, I sold my mother’s ring.’

Richard said ‘_Caroline!_’ in a shaken voice.

She turned to him at once.

‘I didn’t mind, darling—I didn’t really. Only Cherry found out and was
horrid. And then—then there was that dreadful Thursday evening.’

‘Yes, Miss Caroline? Will you tell us exactly what happened on the
Thursday evening?’

Caroline looked very pale.

‘I went out with Richard after tea. We went up on to the cliff. He asked
me to marry him. And I said I couldn’t. I didn’t feel I could with this
dreadful secret going on. I didn’t feel as if I could keep a secret from
him if we were going to be married. So I said no. And Richard went on up
the cliff, but I came back. And when I was quite near the house I met
Cosmo. I was crying, and he was very kind. He said the only thing to do
was to offer the blackmailer a really large sum and that would finish
the whole thing. And he said I could get the money from Rachel if I told
her I was in trouble and that I must have it. And that made me cry more
than ever, because the one thing I couldn’t, couldn’t bear was for
Rachel to think it was money I wanted from her. So I ran in through the
garden gate. But there was someone there, and I came back and ran down
the path to the road and came in that way. I didn’t see Cosmo, so I knew
that he must have gone along the cliff. And afterwards he came to me and
said I mustn’t ever say I’d seen him, because if I did, he would be
obliged to say that he had seen Richard near the place where Rachel
fell. That’s why I fainted when Rachel told us she had been pushed. I
knew that Richard and Cosmo had both been there on the cliff.’

‘As a matter of fact I went across the downs to the road, and came in
the same way that you did,’ said Richard.

‘Cosmo said he went a little way along the cliff path and turned back.
He said Richard passed him and went along towards Nanny
Capper’s—walking very fast. He said if I spoke of having seen him, he
would have to say this, and then Rachel would believe that it was
Richard who had pushed her. And when Richard didn’t say he had been on
the cliff path, I thought—I thought—I didn’t know what to think.’

At this point Louisa gave a rending sniff. It might have been the sniff
of affliction, or it might, on the other hand, have signified acute
disbelief. Her face, like her hands, remained clenched upon whatever it
was that she was feeling.

Richard’s arm dropped from Caroline’s waist.

‘You thought—you thought that I had pushed Rachel over the cliff!’

She broke into a childish sob.

‘Richard—I didn’t—I wouldn’t! He said he’d seen you. He said you were
angry with Rachel, and he was afraid you had lost your head. I didn’t
_believe_ it—but I’d got so that I couldn’t think.’

‘And why was I angry with Rachel? Did he tell you that?’

‘He said—he said he was afraid the blackmailer had got tired of waiting
for me to find the money. He said he thought the man had been to you,
and that you had tried to get the money from Rachel and—and failed.’

‘So I went and pushed her over the cliff! Caroline, did you really
believe all this stuff?’

They had both forgotten that there was anyone else in the room. She said
in the voice of a scolded child,

‘He kept on saying things. I couldn’t think about them any more. They
just hurt.’

‘You see,’ said Miss Silver with a small preliminary cough—‘you see
what a strong motive there was for silencing Miss Caroline. Mr Frith
must have been in desperate straits for money. In fact we now know that
this was the case. He was very much afraid of losing his footing with
Miss Treherne, yet if Miss Caroline were to confide in her or in Mr
Richard, he would lose that footing once and for all. He was running a
frightful risk and he dared not go on. Hence the attempt on Miss
Treherne’s life. It was cleverly planned and boldly executed. If it had
succeeded, it would have been quite impossible to bring it home to him,
but thanks to Mr Brandon it did not succeed. He was still desperate for
money, alarmed by my presence, and afraid of what Miss Caroline would
say when she was questioned. He might well be afraid, because now not
only was she likely to give away the falsehoods he had made her believe
about Mr Richard, but she was also in a position to say that his story
of having been in the house between five and six-fifteen was untrue,
since she had actually met him on his way to the cliff path. His guilty
conscience pushed him on. Some time on the Thursday night he took out
his car and ran over to Pewitt’s Corner to uncover the well. Barlow,
whose room is over the garage, is known to be an extremely heavy
sleeper. Mr Maurice was away. Mr Richard might have heard the car—’

Richard shook his head.

‘I’m like Barlow—nothing wakes me.’

‘Mr Frith would naturally be aware of that. He chose to take the slight
risk of being heard rather than the risk of being seen by daylight at
Pewitt’s Comer. There really was very little risk at all. It was, I
feel, an interposition of Providence that Miss Treherne mentioned the
cottage and the well to me before she left with Mr Brandon. I had to
wait until Mr Frith took his departure. He was so very explicit as to
his movements that my suspicions were redoubled. Why, in the midst of
all this anxiety about Miss Caroline, should he go out of his way to
inform me that he was leaving his car at a garage in Ledlington whilst
he continued his journey to London by train? When I found that he had
actually done this I realised that Miss Caroline was in very great
danger. But I did not believe that the danger lay in London. No, if Mr
Frith wished to direct everyone’s attention to London, then the danger
lay elsewhere, and when I asked myself where, I remembered the lonely
cottage at Pewitt’s Corner with its very convenient well. As we now
know, Mr Frith alighted at Slepham and joined Miss Caroline who was
waiting for him with her car at the old house near the halt. Mercifully,
I had a five-mile start of him. The fog was an equal handicap to both
cars, and thanks to Barlow’s skilful driving we reached the cottage in
time to prevent a terrible tragedy. I was naturally much surprised to
find that Miss Treherne and Mr Brandon were already there. You have
never told me how that happened, Miss Treherne.’

Rachel coloured.

‘I couldn’t stop thinking about the well,’ she said in a low voice.

Miss Silver nodded.

‘We were all thinking about the well—Mr Frith—and myself—and you. A
very dangerous contrivance, and lamentably out of date. Modern plumbing
is not only a great deal more convenient, but it does not so readily
lend itself to a criminal intent. Survivals from the dark ages may be
romantic, but I must confess I prefer modern conveniences.’

Gale Brandon slid his hand over his mouth. Rachel turned rather hastily
to Louisa.

‘Now, Louie—you have heard everything. I should like to hear you beg
Miss Caroline’s pardon.’

Louisa lifted her eyes. They looked first fiercely and then imploringly,
but Rachel met them with something implacable in her own level gaze.
Louisa received an ultimatum, opposed it, hung irresolute, and suddenly
gave way. Her hands still gripping one another, she got up, stared over
the top of Caroline’s head, and said in a hard, mechanical voice,

‘I’m sure I beg your pardon, Miss Caroline, but none of it wouldn’t have
happened if so be you’d spoken up.’

After which she retired in good order upon Rachel’s bedroom, where she
could be heard relieving her feelings by a vigorous opening and shutting
of drawers and cupboard doors.

Caroline cast a wavering look at Richard’s angry face, burst into tears,
and ran out of the room. Richard, to all appearances angrier than
before, jumped up and went after her, slamming the door behind him with
so much violence as to wake Noisy, who, opening both eyes this time,
uttered a protesting grunt, rolled over to face the fire, and once more
sank deep into a dream.

Miss Silver said, ‘Dear me!’ patted her neat front as if she feared that
the draught of the slammed door might have disarranged it, murmured a
polite unheeded excuse, and withdrew.

Gale Brandon went over to the bedroom door and shut it firmly. The sound
of Louisa working off her temper receded. He turned and held out his
arms to Rachel, and she came into them with a sob.

‘I’ve been a terrible failure, Gale. I wonder you’re not afraid to try
me for a wife.’

Mr Brandon’s lips being muffled by her hair, his answer was not very
plainly audible, but she inferred that he was quite willing to try.
After an interval he elaborated the theme.

‘You know, honey, I think you’re the finest woman on the earth, so if
you couldn’t make a go of it, there isn’t anyone in the world who could.
And that’s just where it got you. There isn’t anyone who could make a go
of all that money, and this will business, and those relations of yours.
I don’t know what they were like to start with, but this show was just
naturally bound to bring out every single bad quality they’d got. That’s
hard talking, but there’s got to be some hard talking between us. I
don’t blame you, because you were nothing but a girl—you hadn’t any
experience to go on, and your father landed you in for it. And I don’t
blame him, because first he was a very sick man, and then he was so sick
that he died, and it stands to reason that he wasn’t in a state to think
clearly. It always beats me why people attach so much importance to a
dying wish. If there’s one kind of wish that oughtn’t to be taken any
notice of, it’s that, because it stands to reason that a man who’s so
sick he’s going to die isn’t in a fit state to go binding wishes on
other people. Anyhow, honey, it’s all got to stop now. You give your
sister what you think she ought to have—tied up in trust if you
like—and do the same by the others. Let them have their money and stand
on their own feet, and if they ditch themselves, you just leave them
there till they get enough horse sense to climb out again. Don’t you go
feeding them pap any more. It don’t do them any good and it don’t do you
any good, and anyhow I’m not going to have it.’

Rachel felt rather as if she were out in a high wind. The wind seemed to
be blowing quite a lot of things away. And she didn’t care. She let them
go down the wind. The rough tweed of Gale’s coat was pleasant and harsh
under her cheek. Half her life was gone, but there was another half to
come.

Gale tipped up her chin with a strong, gentle hand.

‘What you really want is a family of your own,’ he said.

                                