                         Mary Roberts Rinehart

                 *        *        *        *        *

[Illustration]
                               EPISODE OF
                             The Wandering
                                 Knife
[Illustration]

                 *        *        *        *        *

                       WALTER J. BLACK • NEW YORK




                      COPYRIGHT, 1943, 1949, 1950

                        BY MARY ROBERTS RINEHART

               _Printed in the United States of America_




                            Episode of the
                             WANDERING KNIFE


                                   I

T H E   N I G H T it happened Mother was giving a dinner party for the
Mayor. I had no idea why she was giving a party for the Mayor. So far as
I knew she had never even seen the man. But I knew what nobody else did
that night. It was what you might call her last fling. Although the news
wasn’t out, she had offered the place to the government for a
convalescent home, and after six months it had been accepted.

Mother is just Mother, and my brother Larry and I let it go at that. She
has her own idea of how to amuse herself. Once I remember she brought
out a part of the circus for a charity benefit, and it took three years
to repair the lawns.

I must say the farewell party was quite in character. We managed to seat
two hundred people hither and yon, and when a mounted policeman took his
place in the driveway and the Mayor drove up with a screaming escort of
motorcycle officers, there was a whole battery of photographers outside
the gates. They had not been allowed inside, and from a distance it
looked like summer lightning, all flash and no noise.

That was the point of the whole business. Nobody was allowed inside the
grounds without being identified, and Alma Spencer, Mother’s friend,
companion, secretary and general watchdog, checked the guests off her
lists as they entered the house. It appeared that the Mayor had been
threatened with assassination or something of the sort, and he was
making the most of it. The result was a policeman at all the doors
except the front one, and the mounted policeman was to keep an eye on
that.

Not that the Mayor was assassinated. He is still alive and running for
office again. But I just want to point out that the house was a fortress
that night.

Well, the party ended, as everything must eventually. I had loathed it
from start to finish. Larry had been frankly bored, and only Mother
seemed her usual self. I can still see her, standing in the wreck of the
house after the sirens had shrieked away and the last guest had gone. It
was a warmish October night, and she was in the marble rotunda which the
architect playfully called our hall. Someone had had the idea of dipping
the goldfish out of the basin around the fountain with a soft hat and
putting them in a champagne bucket. I remember rescuing them, torpid
from the melted ice but still alive.

Mother had stepped out of her slippers, which let her down to her normal
five feet two inches, and she had taken off her diamond collar, which
has been too tight for the last ten years, and was holding it in her
hand.

“I think it went pretty well,” she said complacently.

Alma was beside her. She had the usual pad in her hand, and she looked
exhausted. Somewhere the caterer’s men were folding up tables and extra
chairs, and she jumped at every bang. Larry was in the men’s room,
looking for his hat.

“There has been some breakage,” Alma said. “That drunken waiter dropped
a tray of cocktails. But the silver is all here.”

“What on earth did you expect?” Mother inquired sharply. “I don’t invite
people who steal spoons.”

Alma raised her eyebrows. She had rather handsome eyebrows. And I
remember I laughed. Matters were not helped either by Larry, who came
back scowling from the men’s room. He hadn’t found his hat, and he
pounced on the one by the fountain.

“Well, for God’s sake!” he said. “If that’s mine . . .”

It wasn’t, however. He picked it up and looked at it. It was a dreadful
hat. It had been a poor thing even before it had been wet. It had no
sweatband in it, and now it smelled of fish. Larry put it down
distastefully. But Mother wasn’t interested in hats at the moment.

“Where was Isabel tonight? Larry?” she said.

Larry grinned at her.

“You know she never comes to your brawls, Mother.”

Mother stiffened.

“I resent that word,” she told him indignantly.

But she is never really angry with Larry. He is tall and very
good-looking, especially in full evening dress as he was then.

He stooped over and kissed her. “Sorry,” he said. “She didn’t feel well.
I told Alma in plenty of time. Isabel hasn’t been up to much for the
last week or two.”

Mother glanced at him hopefully. She has always thought she would like a
grandchild to dandle on her knee, but personally I thought she would be
bored to death with one. Larry however was not looking at her. He went
back to look for his hat again, and Mother sat down. The house was
quieter by that time. As it is about the size of the White House in
Washington there was a lot of it to be quiet. I watched the goldfish.
They were beginning to recover.

“I do think Isabel might have made an effort,” Mother said rather
plaintively. “After all I’ve done for her and Larry.”

Well, of course it hadn’t been necessary for her to do anything for
either of them. Isabel had a lot of money of her own, and so had Larry.
I have always thought that the reason she built them a house on our
grounds was to keep Larry close at hand. But she had built the house,
and that is the story. Not that she was jealous of Isabel. Deep in her
heart she was proud of her. It was not only that she was lovely to look
at. I had disappointed Mother in that, having only the usual assortment
of features. But Isabel had been a Leland, and to be a Leland meant
something.

It meant belonging to the conservative group in town, the people who
lived elegantly but quietly in their hideous old red-brick houses,
exchanged calls, gave stuffy dinners with wonderful food and—at least
until the war—drove about in ancient high limousines.

Not that Mother wasn’t well born. She was, but our money had come from
trade, and to the Lelands trade was simply out. Not even Strathmore
House, built on the edge of town on what once had been my grandfather’s
country place before the city grew up around it, had wiped out the smell
of wholesale groceries years ago. It was just as well—Mother would
rather have died than be conventional.

Larry did not find his hat, and came back scowling.

“Nice crowd you had here,” he said. “Somebody traded in my new opera hat
for that thing on the floor.”

Alma looked unhappy.

“I’m sorry,” she said. “I suppose it’s my fault. I found it on the floor
in a back hall and sent it to the men’s room. It wasn’t wet then, of
course.”

Larry picked it up gingerly.

“You owe me for a hat,” he said to Mother. “I’ll take this home to
remind you of it. And to show Isabel what she missed!”

Mother yawned.

“She missed a good dinner,” she said.

She had relaxed by that time. She put out her feet and inspected them.
They looked small and swollen, and vaguely pathetic. Larry saw them, and
leaning over patted her bare shoulder.

“All right, old girl,” he said. “Forget it. Go to bed and get some
sleep.”

I went out with him. The driveway was empty now, and the early fall air
felt cool. It was dark, because of the dimout. The only light was from
the open door behind us. I remember leaning against a pillar, and
Larry’s putting an arm around me.

“Pretty bad, wasn’t it?” he said.

“Awful.”

“Don didn’t come?”

“No. He’s like Isabel. He doesn’t like our brawls.”

No use telling him I had called Donald Scott myself and asked him. No
use telling him the night had been a total loss to me because Don had
refused. Politely, of course. Don is always polite. Anyhow, Larry wasn’t
interested. He stood looking down toward his house, which stood not far
from the gate at the foot of the lawn.

“Look, Judy,” he said. “You and Isabel get along pretty well, don’t
you?”

“I like her. I don’t know how well she likes me. She’s not
demonstrative.”

“Still, you do go around together.”

“Oh, that. Yes. She likes Alma better, you know.”

He seemed embarrassed. He got out a cigarette and gave me one.

“Have you noticed any change in her lately?” he asked. “I’ve thought she
was looking tired. She doesn’t say anything. You know the Lelands. They
don’t talk about themselves. But there’s something wrong.”

“She’s thinner. I’ve noticed that. I’m like Mother. I wondered if she
was going to have a baby.”

He shook his head.

“It’s not that,” he said. “I wish to God she’d talk to me if anything is
bothering her.”

He went off down the drive and I went inside. Patrick, the butler, was
reporting when I got back. He looked old, tired, and disapproving. He
said there was a hole burned in the Aubusson carpet in the Reynolds
room, and some one had spilled a cocktail in the piano. Luckily he had
got rid of the drunken waiter without trouble. What he meant, I
gathered, was that he hadn’t been so lucky with some of the guests.

Like Alma he seemed exhausted. After all he has been with Mother for
thirty years, from birth to brawl, as Larry put it, and he was fully
seventy. But his dignity was unimpaired. He looked around at the
wreckage of the big drawing room, much as Williams, the head gardener,
had looked at his lawns after the circus, and he said much the same
thing.

“After all, madam, with a crowd of people like that . . .”

Only Williams had said animals.

I sat down on the edge of the pool. I was a casualty too. Someone had
stepped on the skirt of my white chiffon and torn it. But I didn’t
mention it. What was the use? For months I had been trying to get into
the WAACS or the WAVES and I was expecting to be called any time. I
supposed there would be hell to pay, but at least I was through with
evening clothes. I looked at Mother. She was tired, but she somehow
seemed even more complacent than usual. After Patrick had gone she spoke
to me.

“I have something to tell you, Judy,” she said. “And Alma too. I hope
you agree with me. I think you will. The fact is—”

She never finished that sentence. Patrick had left the front door open
to air the hall, and we all heard someone running up the drive. It was
Larry. When he got to the top of the steps he was staggering, and had to
clutch the side of the doorway for support. He looked at us as if he had
never seen us before.

“What is it, Larry?” Mother said. “Is something wrong?”

“Isabel!” he said. “She’s dead.”

Mother stood still. She was quite white under the liquid powder and
rouge she insists on using, but her voice was calm.

“I’m sure you’re wrong,” she said. “She may have fainted. Get him a
chair, Judy. And, Alma, bring some brandy.”

She asked no questions. She simply stood by Larry and waited until he
had had the brandy. Even then she was calm, except that her plump small
body was quivering. Then she said, “Can you tell me about it, son?”

“She’s dead. That’s all I can tell you.” He got up, and looked around
him wildly. “I’ve got to call the police.”

“The police?”

“She’s been murdered,” he said, and staggered toward the library.


                                   II

I thought I had seen Mother in action before. The time the boxing
kangaroo she had brought for a children’s party got excited and began
knocking the kids over one by one, for instance. I was one of the kids,
so I remember. Before I could speak she told Alma to look after him.
Then she was out the front door and running down the driveway in her
stocking feet. She almost beat me to Larry’s house. I caught up to her
finally and yelped at her to remember her blood pressure, and we entered
the house together.

It is a pretty house. Mother’s taste in people may be catholic, but in
houses and furnishing she knows her stuff. And except that Larry had
left the front door standing open it looked as quiet and orderly as
ever. Mother gave one look around and then climbed the stairs. That is,
she got almost up and stopped.

Isabel was lying on the landing, and there was no doubt that she was
dead. She lay on her back, her arms outstretched, and except that one of
her bedroom mules was off there was no sign of any struggle. Her lovely
dark hair was spread over the carpet, making a frame for her face, and
one arm was out of her dressing gown, as though she had been putting it
on when she met her murderer.

Not that I noticed that then. All I could see was the small spot of
blood on the front of her silk nightgown.

Mother stood very still, looking down at her. Then she reached down and
touched the hand nearest to her. She drew back, and I knew Isabel really
was dead. Neither of us said anything. Then Mother sank down on the
stairs, as if she felt faint, and when Larry came pounding back she was
still there. She wouldn’t move to let him pass.

“There is nothing you can do,” she said. “Go down and call the police.
I’m here.”

I went down to the porch with Larry. Alma was standing there, looking
like death, and a few moments later I heard the siren. A police car
swung in on two wheels and stopped with the engine still going. Two
uniformed men leaped out. One of them touched his cap.

“Understand you’ve had some trouble here,” he said.

Larry braced himself.

“We have. My wife . . .” He choked and did not finish.

They pushed past us and into the house, to see Mother sitting on the
stairs. She was still holding that wretched diamond collar. In her
glittering gold-brocade dress and with her bright red hair she
completely stopped them. They stood gazing up at her.

“My daughter-in-law is here,” she said. “I’m afraid somebody has stabbed
her.”

“Is she badly hurt?”

“She is dead.”

She let them pass then, but she stayed where she was. Behind me I heard
Larry groan, and I turned and went back to him. I got him into the
library, although he would not sit down. He paced the floor, looking
like a wild man and saying over and over: “Who would do it? She had no
enemies. Who would do it?” I think he didn’t even know he was speaking,
or that I was there.

It was only a minute or so before one of the officers came down the
stairs to the telephone. He hung up and looked at Larry.

“Who found her?” he asked.

Larry tried to explain, but he made so bad a job of it that I took it
over. I told about the party for the Mayor, the two hundred people, the
orchestra, the forty extra waiters, even the Mayor’s screaming escort.
And I told about Larry’s coming home to find Isabel dead. He looked
bewildered.

“What you’re saying, miss, is that close to three hundred people were in
and out of this property tonight. That right?”

“That’s right.”

“They all drove in at the gate out there?”

“That’s the only way they could get in.”

But the knowledge that the Mayor had been among them made him treat us
both with more marked consideration.

“Anything missing in the house?” he inquired. “It might have been a
burglar. If she woke up and was raising an alarm . . . Anything valuable
around?”

The idea of a burglar at least gave Larry something to hold to. He said
Isabel’s jewels were in the house, in the safe in her room. He even
listed them, while the officer wrote them down: her diamond and other
earrings, her bracelets, her clips and her pearls—although pearls are
worth a dime a dozen nowadays. But when the officer came back again he
said the safe was closed and locked.

“Maybe if you’d come up and open it . . .” he suggested.

Larry however had taken all he could. He shook his head.

Mother was still on the stairs when the homicide squad arrived. They had
to push past her. The Inspector came first, with his car jammed with
detectives and a uniformed stenographer. Following him came another car
with a photographer and fingerprint men, and soon after the captain of
our local precinct, a youngish man who said he had been at a fire
somewhere and been delayed. The hall and stairs were jammed, but Mother
refused to move.

“She was my son’s wife,” she said. “I was fond of her. And some woman
has to stand by her now. She’s—helpless.”

I had to take my hat off to her, tired as she was. She still had no
slippers on her feet; she still hung on to her choker. But she never
gave an inch, although she looked pretty sick.

“What I want,” she said, “is to know who did this to her. And why?”

That was at half-past twelve on Thursday, the 15th of last October, or
rather the early morning of the 16th. There were police all over the
house by that time, and to add to the confusion I had a half-dozen
hysterical women on my hands. The sirens had wakened the maids, and one
or two of them fainted when they heard what had happened. The rest were
crying, and I would have given a lot to have slapped some sense into
them. As it was, all I could do was to force the cook to stop wailing
and make coffee, and I took some myself. I was pretty jittery by that
time. I was drinking it in the pantry when the photographer came and
asked for a cup.

He was a tall thin young man. He looked tired, and I gave him the coffee
quickly. I hardly noticed him, which seems queer now; but he eyed me
with interest.

“So you’re Judy Shepard,” he said.

“Judith,” I said. “My mother’s answer to my father’s wish that I be
named for his sister Henrietta.”

He gave me a pale sort of grin, as if he understood why I had to talk or
go into shrieking hysterics.

“I’m Anthony King,” he said. “Generally known as Tony.” He seemed to
think I might know the name. I didn’t.

“Any ideas about this thing?” he asked. “See any weapon when you got
here? Anybody hate your sister-in-law? No. Then do you mind if I sit
down? I’m just getting over a spell in the hospital.”

He sat down rather abruptly and drank his coffee. Then he reached into
his pocket and pulled out a fine platinum chain with a small white silk
tassel hung on it. I stared at it.

“Ever see it before?”

“Never.”

“It was under the—under Mrs. Shepard. Kind of funny, isn’t it? I mean,
do women hang tassels on chains?”

He let me take it and look at it. I suppose because there could be no
fingerprints on a thing like that. The chain was the usual sort, but the
tassel was not. It was ordinary enough in itself, but on the small solid
top some one had made a cross in ink.

The King man had his eyes on me.

“Curious, isn’t it?” he said.

I gave it back to him.

“I can’t imagine her having a thing like that,” I told him. “You’d
better show it to the police.”

“They know I have it,” he said cryptically, and got up. “I’m just asking
around.”

He stopped in the doorway however and looked back at me.

“Look here,” he said, “you can’t do anything, you know. Why not get out,
for a while anyhow? Go home and get some rest. You may not know it, but
you have a bad case of shock.”

Well, I suppose I had, for the next thing I realized was that I was in a
chair and he was pushing my head down between my knees.

“Take it easy,” he was saying. “You’re a big girl now, and big girls
don’t faint.”

He didn’t leave me until the pantry shelves had stopped whirling, dishes
and all. Then he wandered back to see the women in the kitchen, and I
carried coffee to Mother. She was still on the stairs, looking defiantly
at the police as they trampled over and around her. I thought she wanted
to say something to me, but there was no chance.

She never moved until at two o’clock the police ambulance came to take
Isabel away. Larry was in the library with the Inspector, whose name
turned out to be Welles, and a half-dozen detectives. Alma had been sent
up to the house for the guest list of the dinner, and it was being
checked over in the sun parlor. Other policemen were searching inside
and out for the weapon, which the medical examiner had said was a knife.
But they had not found it when the ambulance came.

Mother got up then. It was the first time she had moved since she saw
the body. She came downstairs stiffly, to close the library door so that
Larry would not see that awful basket being carried out. She looked very
queer. Not shocked, exactly. If anything, she looked stealthy.

It seems queer, but it was not until then that we remembered the
Lelands, and Larry finally roused enough to call them. As I have said,
their house is still in the heart of town, one of those survivors of a
past age before cars came and most people either evacuated the city or
moved into apartments. It is a big square red-brick affair which has
never compromised with the last quarter century. The Lelands were like
that too. They belonged to the no-surrender group. The old lady,
Isabel’s grandmother, used a handsome pair of horses and a carriage for
her daily outing until she died. Her spinster daughter, Eliza, had lived
up to the family tradition, devoted herself to her mother and good
works, and left Isabel a fortune in trust when she passed on, the Leland
words for dying. Isabel’s father, Andrew—always Andrew, never
Andy—still wore a small imperial and a stiff winged collar. He was a
precise dapper little man usually; but there was nothing precise about
him when, at three that morning, he stormed into Larry’s house.

The first thing he saw however was Mother, and he stopped dead.

“What is all this?” he demanded. “What has happened? Where’s Isabel?”

“I’m sorry, Andrew,” Mother said. She had called him by his first name
since the day Larry and Isabel were married, and he hated it. “I didn’t
think Larry was being clear. It’s true.”

“You mean that Isabel—”

“They’ve taken her away. The police, I mean. I tried to stop them,
but—Andrew, this will be a shock. She didn’t just die. She
was—somebody killed her.”

He took it very well. You have to say that for the Lelands of this
world. They can take it. Pride or simply restraint, they can take it.
And Andrew Leland, save that he sat down suddenly on one of the hall
chairs, kept himself well in control. He shook his head when I brought
him some brandy.

“Just a moment,” he said. “I—I’m afraid I . . . It’s a great shock.”
And after a minute: “Where is Lawrence? What does he know about this?”

“He found her,” said Mother. “That’s all he knows. He loved her and he
found her. Just remember that, Andrew.”

She looked almost dangerous. They can talk all they like about a lioness
protecting her young, but a lioness has nothing on a woman like mother
protecting her beloved son. She glared down at Andrew Leland, and he
buried his face in his hands and groaned.

“God knows how I’m to tell Emily,” he said, and got up. “Where is
Lawrence?” he inquired, more steadily.

“In the library. The police are there.”

He went in, not bothering to knock. The Inspector looked up, annoyed.
Then he saw who it was and came forward.

“Very sorry about this, Mr. Leland,” he said. “Very sorry indeed.”

Andrew, however, was not looking at the Inspector. He was staring at
Larry, sunk in a chair and looking collapsed.

“I would like to speak to Mr. Shepard alone,” he said.

The Inspector did not like it.

“Perhaps I’d better tell you first all we know,” he said. “If you’d care
to sit down . . .”

I don’t believe he would have, but Mother was beside him. She gave him a
shove, and looking very surprised he found himself in a chair. The
Inspector seemed gratified. I even thought he looked amused.

“These are the facts so far as we know them, Mr. Leland,” he said. “At
eight o’clock Mr. Shepard left this house for a dinner at his mother’s.
His wife had intended to go, but at the last moment complained of not
feeling well, and Mr. Shepard suggested that she go to bed instead. This
she did. Her personal maid reports that she was in bed at eight-thirty.
She seemed nervous and upset.

“Between nine and ten the other servants all went to bed. But the
personal maid, Anna Griffin, left the house by the kitchen door at nine
o’clock and walked to Strathmore House. According to her story she was
gone about an hour, leaving the kitchen door unlocked. She stopped and
explained who she was to the mounted officer on duty in the driveway,
and then went on to the house.

“She stayed there outside a window, looking in and listening to the
music, for approximately one hour. Then she came back to this house and
went to bed. She did not enter this part of the building at all. There
was a bell from your daughter’s room to her own, and the parlormaid, who
was still awake and reading, reports that it did not ring.

“At eleven-thirty o’clock Mr. Shepard left his mother’s house and came
home. The front door was locked. He used his key to get in, and he found
the lower hall dark. This, he says, surprised him, as a light is always
left until he comes in. He did not bother to turn it on, and so”—here
his voice became almost human—“he had the unfortunate experience of
stumbling over his wife at the top of the stairs.

“I suppose we must make some allowance for the resulting delay. He did
not call us at once. Instead he ran back to his mother’s house and
collapsed there. His mother and sister came here and he followed them
almost immediately. He then notified us.”

Andrew Leland looked up.

“That’s _his_ story,” he said. “He could have left his mother’s house
earlier, couldn’t he? There was a crowd of people. I understand half the
undesirables in town were there.”

“Don’t be a fool, Andrew!” Mother snapped. “Just because you don’t like
me is no reason to accuse Larry. And if you want to know, the people I
had tonight—”

The Inspector looked tired.

“Just what reason have you, Mr. Leland, for intimating that your
son-in-law did this thing?”

“I said he could have. When did she . . . When did it happen?”

“Probably between nine and ten. The medical examiner may be able to set
the time closer.”

“We didn’t finish dinner until almost ten,” Mother broke in
triumphantly.

But nobody was listening. Not even Larry. All this time he had not
spoken. It was as though everything was unimportant except for the
single fact that Isabel was dead. I think he hadn’t even heard Mr.
Leland’s accusation. He stirred now, however.

“Why?” he said, out of a clear sky. “Why would anyone want to kill her?
She never hurt anybody in her life.”

The Inspector looked at him.

“I suppose you can account for your time, Mr. Shepard?”

“Not exactly. I didn’t look at my watch.”

“Did you leave the house at all during the evening? Your mother’s
house?”

Larry shrugged.

“I went outside after dinner was over,” he said indifferently. “To get
away from the noise. I lit a cigarette and walked down the drive a few
yards. That’s all.”

“Did anyone see you?”

“I don’t know. It was pretty dark. I heard the policeman’s horse. I’m
not sure he was on it. If he was he could have seen me. The outside
lights were off on account of the dimout, but I left the hall door
open.”

“You didn’t come down to your own house?”

“I wish to God I had.”

“What about cars? Were there no chauffeurs around?”

“There were a few parked cars, but their lights were off too. The cars
with chauffeurs had been told to stay outside in Linden Avenue until
they were called.”

The Inspector abandoned Larry for the minute. He picked up the platinum
chain with its tassel and held it out.

“Do you recognize this, Mr. Leland?” he inquired.

Andrew Leland looked uncertain.

“I don’t remember it. What about it?”

The Inspector explained, but he shook his head.

“I wouldn’t know. Perhaps Emily—perhaps my wife will remember.”

The thought of his wife seemed to overwhelm him. He got out a
handkerchief and wiped his forehead, and I glanced at Mother. All at
once I felt there was something queer about her. She nodded her head to
me, but I couldn’t understand what she meant. The Inspector was talking.
There had been no robbery. Isabel’s pearls were on her dressing table,
as was her huge square-cut diamond engagement ring. Larry had given the
police the combination of Isabel’s safe, but her bracelets and other
jewels were still there.

“That is not conclusive, of course,” he said. “The man might have been
scared off, perhaps by the maid’s return. And we have not been able to
find the weapon. It may have been thrown into the shrubbery, and we will
find it in the morning. Mr. Shepard states that he saw no weapon by the
body, and so does his mother.”

“I wouldn’t believe either one of them on oath,” said Andrew Leland, and
gave Larry a look of pure hatred.

That was when Mother did something she had never done before. She simply
put her head back in her chair, closed her eyes, and sagged. Larry was
on his feet in a second, yelling for water. But by the time he reached
her she was over whatever it was. She looked up pathetically.

“I’m so tired, Larry,” she said. “I’m too old for this sort of thing.
Can’t I go home and go to bed?”

I knew then that it was an act. In all her life Mother has never
admitted age, and she has never wanted to go to bed until there was
nothing left to stay up for. For some reason she wanted to get out of
the house.

I played up as well as I could. “She’s had a frightful day.” I said.
“And of course she is getting on, as she says.” She gave me a nasty look
from under her eyelids. “I can take her home, if you like. That is, if
she can walk.”

They wouldn’t let her walk, however. They took her in one of the police
cars, and one of my most vivid memories of that awful night is mother
padding out in her stocking feet, holding to an officer’s arm and giving
everyone in the room but Andrew Leland a faint but winsome farewell nod.

I followed her out. I knew she wanted me to go with her, but I couldn’t
leave Larry. A man in the hall was sprinkling powder on the light switch
there. He blew on it and then examined it with a magnifying glass. The
man called Tony King was on his knees inspecting the stair carpet. When
I looked out Mother was getting into the police car, and she was still
putting on the act, crawling in as if she was too feeble to lift her
legs.

Only it was not an act, as I learned later.


                                  III

It must have been almost four in the morning before the mounted
policeman was brought in. Without his mount, of course. He was a tall
young man, and he looked scared to death. Evidently he had been in bed,
for his hair was still rumpled. He had put on his uniform, however, and
he blinked in the light as he stood in the doorway.

The Inspector eyed him coldly.

“Officer Barnes?”

“Yes, sir.”

“You were on duty here tonight?”

“Not here, sir. I was ordered to report outside the big house up the
drive, to watch the traffic. The Mayor—”

“We know all that. Did you leave your post at any time during the
evening?”

“No, sir. That is . . .”

He looked at me.

“Well, did you?” snapped the Inspector.

He gulped.

“Only once, sir. A call of nature. I . . .”

“All right,” said the Inspector, rather hastily. “What I want to know is
this. You were within sixty feet or so of the house. Did you see anyone
leave that house at any time during the evening? Before the party broke
up?”

“No, sir. I didn’t.”

Larry leaped to his feet, but the Inspector motioned for him to sit down
again. He turned to Barnes, standing stiff and unhappy in front of him.

“Did you see a woman go up the drive and stand on the side terrace,
looking in?”

Barnes looked more scared than ever, as if he wanted to bolt and run. He
glanced around the room. Andrew Leland was watching him, as were all the
others, including Larry, who was looking bewildered.

“If I could know what it’s all about, sir,” he began uneasily.

“Answer the question,” the Inspector roared. “Did you or did you not see
a woman go up the drive and onto the terrace?”

“Not that I remember,” he mumbled. “She might have. I’m not saying she
didn’t. I was pretty tired, sir. I may have dozed a bit.” He looked as
though the idea had just occurred to him. He was sheepish but reassured.
He even grinned a little. “I guess that’s it, sir. I may have shut my
eyes for a minute.”

The Inspector looked back through his notes. He picked one out and
examined it.

“I see. And in your sleep, when this woman told you she was going to
look in a window and try to see the Mayor, you then replied: ‘Atta girl,
and to hell with him.’”

Barnes looked shocked and then absolutely terrified. It was some time
before he even spoke. Then his voice was shaking.

“I never said anything of the sort. She’s—she’s lying.”

“One of you is lying, that’s certain,” said the Inspector, and sent him
out to another room under guard. When the door had closed behind them he
looked at the captain of the local precinct.

“What about him?” he said. “What’s scared him?”

“I don’t know, sir. He’s a decent sort. Has a wife and two children.
Lives not far away. I don’t get it.”

I have often wondered since what would have happened had Barnes told his
story that night. As it was they only confused and alarmed him. Perhaps
he knew they would not have believed him. There was that fifty dollars
to account for, and he had already given it to his wife. But they let
him go eventually, on orders to report at the Inspector’s office the
next morning, and I took Larry home to get what sleep he could. Mr.
Leland protested about their letting him go, but the Inspector was firm.

“We don’t arrest on opportunity alone,” he said, “and we have yet to
find that there was even opportunity.”

“That policeman was bribed. It stuck out all over him.”

Even this resort to the vernacular, coming from a Leland as it did,
failed to impress the Inspector. It merely annoyed him.

“You can leave that to me, sir,” he said gruffly, and drove away.

Larry and I walked up to the house. There was no incentive to talk, even
if we had wanted to, as one of the detectives went with us. He said good
night quite civilly, however, when we got there, and, turning, went
briskly down the drive. When we went in Patrick and James, the footman
who valets Larry, were waiting. Alma had had a hysterical attack and
gone to bed.

Larry fairly reeled when we got into the house, but the two men took
charge of him. I waited until his door closed, then I went in to see
Mother. The lights were all on, and it was evident she had sent her
maid, Sarah, away and undressed herself. Her clothes were all over the
room. She was sitting upright in bed, and she looked at me with an
expression which was a nice mixture of grief and triumph.

“I just made it,” she said. “That damned stocking of mine tore. Right in
front of all those policemen too. That’s why I fainted.”

I eyed her.

“You didn’t faint,” I said. “I watched you.”

“Of course not, but with you being completely dumb what could I do? I
had to get away before it fell out.”

I hope I was patient. She says now that I exhibited all my father’s
vicious temper plus the worst traits of Aunt Henrietta, who was the
family harridan. But at last I got it out of her.

She had had the knife all along.

“What do you suppose kept me on the stairs?” she demanded. “There it
was, stuck under the edge of the carpet. What could I do but sit on it?”

“You might have given it to the police,” I suggested.

“To the police? Larry’s knife! Are you crazy?”

I could feel myself going cold all over. And it _was_ Larry’s knife. She
had known it by the part of the handle she could see; the moth-eaten
hairy handle of the old hunting knife that he had carted around with him
on hunting trips for years. After he married he still kept it, in the
room he called his gun room, downstairs in his own house. “Anyone could
have got at it, of course. The glass doors of the closet were never
locked. Just the same . . .”

“Don’t be an idiot,” Mother said sharply. “He didn’t kill her. If he
had, would he have used his own knife and left it there? That knife was
meant to be found, and by the police. Anyhow, why should he? He liked
her.”

“Look, Mother,” I said, lowering my voice, “what have you done with it?”

“I’ve hidden it,” she said craftily.

“And how long will it stay hidden?” I inquired. “With servants all over
the place, and as much privacy for us as canary birds.”

Mother smirked. There is no other word for it.

“It’s entirely safe,” she said. “It’s in the tank of the toilet in my
bathroom.”

“Look, Mother,” I said patiently, “you never read crime books. You never
read any books, for that matter. But toilet tanks are the universal
hiding places for all lethal weapons. If they ever search this house—”

“Why on earth would they search this house?” she demanded indignantly.
“Who do they think did it. We all have alibis. I sat beside that idiot
of a Mayor for hours. Anyhow, who would come up here to my bathroom? If
any one needed . . .”

I didn’t say anything. What was the use? I went into her bathroom and
lifted the porcelain top of the tank. The knife was there, and it was
Larry’s all right. I didn’t touch it. I just put the lid back on. I felt
dizzy.

“Nobody will find it there,” Mother said, “And tomorrow we will get rid
of it.”

I don’t remember saying anything. I had just seen Mother’s stockings.
They were lying on the floor, and one of them was torn to ribbons. I
picked it up. There was a little blood on it from the knife; not much,
but enough to make me shiver.

I knew right off that I had to do something about it. It looked simple
enough, on the surface; just wash it out and let it go. But you have to
remember the way we lived. It was almost five in the morning, and
Mother’s early tea was brought in by Sarah at eight-thirty, no matter
when she had gone to bed. I could see Sarah, whose life is entirely
vicarious—meaning that our affairs are hers and hers are her
own—picking up that torn wet stocking and holding it up.

“Whoever washed this stocking, madam? And torn as it is, too!”

I stood holding it and trying to think. There were no fires going,
except in the furnaces in the cellar, and, anyway, Sarah knew every
stitch of Mother’s wardrobe. “Surely, madam,” she’d say, “you couldn’t
have lost it. You can’t lose a stocking.” I couldn’t fool her with one
of mine, either. My feet are half again as big as Mother’s. So I did the
only thing I could think of. I picked up a nail file from the toilet
table and before mother could open her mouth I had jerked down the
covers and scratched her leg with it just above the knee.

She let out a howl and grabbed her leg.

“Are you crazy?” she yelped. “My own child! What on earth do you mean,
attacking me like that?”

There was a drop of blood, fortunately, and I wiped it with the
stocking. These days of tests for typing blood and so on certainly make
it difficult even for the innocent. Then I explained to Mother, and to
my relief she listened.

“All right,” she said. “Only how am I to tell Sarah I got that scratch?”

I left her to work that out and went to my room across the hall. It was
still dark, but I could see pinpricks of light through the grounds where
the police were continuing their search for that wretched knife. I knew
there was only one thing to do—go to them with it and tell the truth.
After all nobody but a lunatic would leave the murder weapon—especially
his own—where it would be certain to be found.

But I knew too that Mother would never agree. I couldn’t even slip it
out of her room, for she had locked the door behind me. Finally I went
to bed, to lie in the dark and see Isabel lying dead at the foot of the
stairs, and the King man on his knees examining the carpet. It was broad
daylight when I finally dozed off.

At noon Alma wakened me, looking apologetic.

“I’m sorry, Judy,” she said. “But there’s a man downstairs to see your
mother, and she won’t see him. I’m afraid he’s from the police.”

I sat up in bed. In the strong light she looked devastated, and I
remembered that she had really been closer to poor Isabel than any of us
except Larry. She was older than Isabel; but from the time they first
met they had been good friends.

She sat down while I took a shower and got into some clothes, and when
she tried to light a cigarette I saw she was shaking.

“Emily Leland has sent for me,” she said. “I suppose it’s about the
funeral. I don’t know what to do.”

“Better go,” I told her. “You can’t do anything here, Alma.”

“I’ve tried to see your mother. She won’t let me in.”

“I wouldn’t worry about that. She’s had a dreadful shock. Where’s
Larry?”

“Downtown. And there are reporters swarming all over the place.” She
rose and, going to my dressing table, surveyed herself in the glass. “I
look like the devil,” she said. Then she turned. “Judy, what on earth
are they looking for in the grounds? The police, I mean.”

“They didn’t find the knife—if it was a knife.”

She went white. She was a good-looking woman, tall and slim, but under
her make-up she was ghastly.

“I’m sorry,” she gasped. “I’m afraid I’m going to be sick.”

She rushed out of the room, leaving me uncertain whether to follow her
or to leave her alone.

In the end I left her alone. I dressed and went downstairs, to find the
King man in the lower hall. He was watching the fish in the pool, and
this time he had no camera. James was watching him, and he looked
annoyed. He didn’t even say good-morning.

“So people do live like this, in this day and age,” he said.

“Until they’re liquidated. What would you suggest?”

He shrugged and grinned.

“All right, sister,” he said. “Is there a spot anywhere to talk, or do I
whisper here?”

“We have a few odd corners,” I told him.

Of course the house is outrageous, as I have said. The hall is circular,
and is two stories high, with a gallery along the back of it. The big
drawing room is the size of a ballroom, but thank heaven there are half
a dozen other rooms where one can sit. I took Tony King to the library.

“Now,” I said, when I had closed the door. “What do the police want with
me? Isn’t it enough they have my brother?”

“I don’t belong to the police.”

“You did last night.”

He gave me a curious look.

“I just happened to be with the Inspector when the word came.”

“You took pictures, didn’t you?”

“The official photographer wasn’t around. And I take pretty good
pictures.”

He offered me a cigarette and took one himself. I sat down. He didn’t.
He took a turn or two around the room before he spoke again. When he did
I almost fell out of my chair.

“Look here,” he said, “what have you done with it?”

“With what?”

“The knife.” He was impatient. “That trick of your mother’s didn’t fool
me any. She had sat for hours on the stairs and never blinked an eye.
Then she gets into a good chair and faints, just when things were
getting hot.”

I pulled myself together as well as I could.

“I don’t know what you are talking about. If you don’t belong to the
police you have no right to be here at all.”

“Don’t be a little fool,” he said rudely. “You’re on the spot, and your
mother too. I examined that stair carpet. How long do you think it will
be before they begin to wonder about your mother sitting there for all
that time? If she has the knife do the right thing and turn it in. The
truth never hurt anybody.”

I knew that too. I knew perfectly well that the thing to do was to go
upstairs, choke mother into insensibility, get the knife and give it to
the police. I looked at Tony King, who apparently had been up all night
and certainly needed a shave, and knew that he was right. But I never
had a chance to answer him.

The door opened, and Donald Scott came in, looking immaculate and
well-tailored and with just the right degree of sympathy on his handsome
face.

I saw the King man give him a long hard look.

“My poor girl!” Don said, holding out both hands. “I came as soon as I
could.”

Maybe I was just excited. Maybe I thought Tony King could stand seeing
that not everybody thought I was a little fool, and conniving at murder
at that. I remember screeching, “Darling!” and throwing myself into
Don’s arms, and the King man grinning as he more or less oozed out. And
then, to my own astonishment, I was crying.

And not just crying. Practically shrieking. I suppose I had been more
shocked by Isabel’s death than I knew; that, and Mother sitting up in
her bed keeping a watch on that wretched tank in her bathroom, and Larry
downtown being interrogated, and the men in the grounds outside. As far
as Don was concerned the dam had burst all over him, and he didn’t like
it any too well. He held me off until the flood was over. Then he patted
me on the back and gave me his handkerchief. After which he took it back
and carefully dried the lapel of his coat.

“Judy, I’m terribly sorry,” he said. “Maybe I’d better come back later.”

But I wasn’t letting him go. Not until I knew why he was there, and not
when I hadn’t seen him for weeks. I suppose it happens sometimes that a
bad case of calf love carries over even when people are old enough to
know better. Anyhow it had been that way with me. But the very way he
had wiped his coat when I had cried all over it should have taught me
something. It didn’t, of course.

I sat down and grinned feebly at him.

“It’s all over,” I said. “I suppose I had to burst on somebody, and it
happened to be you. But the idea of anybody’s thinking Larry did it!”

“Who thinks that?” he asked, eying me.

“They have him downtown.”

“They have a lot of people,” he said. “See here, Judy, are you afraid he
did it, after all? Is that why you are scared?”

“I’m not scared, damn it,” I said, shaking all over again. “He adored
her. Ask Mother. No, don’t ask Mother,” I added hastily. “She’s in no
shape to be questioned. But it’s true. They were really happy. You can
ask the servants. You can ask . . .”

I suppose I would have babbled on indefinitely if I had not suddenly
noticed his face. He looked shocked, like a man who has had a blow. I
knew why, too. Six or seven years ago, when he was only a struggling
young lawyer, he had been crazy about Isabel. I was at boarding school
when I heard it, and I cried all night.

I looked at him that morning and felt as sick as he looked.

“I’m trying to help Larry,” he said. “If it comes to that. Probably it
won’t.” He walked over to the window and stood looking out. I remember
the sun on his hair, and wanting just once to touch it. But when he
turned I realized he didn’t really see me. He had been seeing Isabel
instead, lying dead at the top of the stairs in her house. He lit a
cigarette and sat down. His face was under control again.

“I want to ask you something, Judy,” he said. “Did you see the chain
they found under her?”

“Yes. That man that just went out showed it to me last night. Why, Don?”

“Did she—did you ever see it before?”

“Never. But then she had a lot of things I never saw.”

He drew a long breath.

“Look, Judy,” he said. “I’ve got to tell you something, although God
knows . . .” He stopped. “I gave her that chain, years ago,” he said. “I
saw it this morning at Headquarters. I had no idea she still had it.”

I suppose I gasped, for he looked angry.

“Don’t be an idiot,” he said. “I didn’t kill her. Everything between us
was over long ago. But I’d given her a ring, and she wasn’t allowed to
wear it. The chain was to hang it on.”

I managed to breathe again.

“Have you told them about it?” I asked.

“Not yet. What good would it do? But look, Judy, what about the thing
that was strung on it. What is it? You’re a woman. Haven’t you any
idea?”

I shook my head.

“Nobody wears things like that nowadays, Don.”

“It must have meant something.”

“Yes,” I said dully. “It must have meant something. I don’t know what.”

He had a whiskey and soda before he left, and he began to look almost
human. He even took the time to say that I looked like the wrath of God.

“Why don’t you go to bed and get some rest?” he said.

“I would,” I told him, “only Mother had the idea first.”

For the first time that day he smiled, and I smiled back at him. I
suppose he was just a nice blond young man who had pulled himself up by
his bootstraps, but I have cherished him for a long time, and the smile
simply broke me up.

“Poor Judy,” he said. “It’s just too damned bad, isn’t it?”

For one idiotic moment I thought he meant to kiss me. He didn’t, of
course, and with the slam of his car door I had a queer feeling that he
was going out of my life for good. Or that he had never been in it.


                                   IV

Alma and I ate a silent lunch together, or pretended to. One of the
tragedies of an establishment like ours is that there is always food. It
comes and goes, whether it is wanted or not, and we go through the forms
of eating it or pushing it away. Alma was in black, ready for the
Lelands. She looked better, but she didn’t eat.

“I don’t know what’s wrong with your mother,” she said before she left.
“She won’t even allow me in her room. It isn’t like her.”

“She was fond of Isabel.”

“That’s no reason,” she said tartly. “Somebody has to run this house. It
doesn’t run itself.”

I watched her go. She was not really handsome, but she was always
smartly dressed. Isabel had always given her clothes she was tired of or
which didn’t suit her, and she did miracles with them. She must have
been thirty-five—we never did know her exact age—and Larry always
maintained she still had the first dollar she ever earned. But we
couldn’t have done without her, and she knew it.

After she left I wandered up to see Mother. She was sitting in
bed-surrounded by pillows, and I could see that she was still keeping an
eye on the tank in her bathroom. Sarah was there, putting iodine on her
leg, and looking disapproving and slightly suspicious.

“That’s enough,” Mother snapped. “Now get out of here and call the
doctor. And I don’t want to wait all day for him.”

I waited until Sarah had gone. Then I went over and sat down on the bed.

“Why the doctor?” I asked. “That’s only a scratch.”

She gave me a cold look.

“Because I’m in a state of collapse,” she said morosely. “I’m in a state
of collapse until I can take my eyes off that sickening tank. That ought
to keep the police out, too.”

I advised her to remove some of her make-up if she meant to impress the
doctor, and I told her it was silly to keep Alma out of the room.

“If you want her to suspect you, you’re doing all right,” I said. “And
I’ll tell you this. A man named King was here this morning. He suspects
you of having the knife. In fact he’s damned sure you have it.”

“I do wish you wouldn’t swear, Judy,” she said. “What does he know
anyhow? How could he know anything?”

“He examined the stair carpet last night. I don’t think he has told the
police yet. He wants you to go to them yourself.”

But she was completely and utterly stubborn. She was saving Larry. All
they needed for a case against him was that wretched knife, and she
would guard it with her life. I could talk myself black in the face, she
said. The police would never get it.

Then she looked pleading.

“Be a good girl, Judy,” she said, “and get rid of it for me. I’m
cross-eyed from watching it. It can’t stay here.”

“It will as far as I’m concerned,” I said bitterly. “Don’t bring me into
it. And don’t go pathetic on me, Mother. Here you are, all nicely tucked
up in bed, while I have to tell all the lies, and maybe get arrested in
the end.”

“Of course you won’t be arrested. Don’t be silly, Judy,” she said
absently. “I’ve thought it all out. You can take it tonight and bury it
in the grounds. Some place where the gardeners aren’t working,” she
added vaguely.

“And where would that be?”

“Good heavens! With all this ground! You can look around this afternoon
and pick a place. Then tonight, when every one else is in bed—”

“Little Judy will be in bed, too, Mother darling,” I said firmly.

But of course she knew she had me. I’m fond of her, and when she tried
to light a cigarette she was trembling so she almost set the bed on
fire.

“All right,” I told her. “Just remember when I’m arrested that my
fingerprints will be all over it.”

“You could wear gloves,” she said hopefully.

I laughed.

“I’d like to try explaining why I’m wearing gloves in the rose garden at
two A.M.”

When I went downstairs there was a young woman waiting to see me.
Patrick had put her in the red room, where he places visitors he is
uncertain about. He said in a whisper that she had been crying, and he
was right. She had not only been crying. She was still crying. She was a
pretty young woman, rather nicely dressed, and she looked as if she had
not slept for a week.

She stopped weeping when she saw me, however. In fact, she looked at me
as if I were something to step on.

“You’re Miss Shepard?” she asked.

I said I was, and waited. She was standing, and she remained standing.

“I want to know what they’ve done with Jim,” she said. “I don’t care
what they say. They’ve got him locked up somewhere. As if he would kill
anybody! Or even know about it! He’s the kindest man I ever knew. As for
your sister-in-law, he didn’t even know her. He may have seen her
driving about, but that’s all.”

“Who on earth is Jim?” I said puzzled.

“Jim Barnes.”

“Barnes!” I said incredulously. “Do you mean he hasn’t been home?”

“Oh, he came home all right,” she said. “They took him away around
half-past three this morning, and he came back before five. But he
didn’t sleep. He didn’t even come up to bed. He looked like death. Then
at six they came for him again. He hasn’t been back since.”

“I wouldn’t worry too much,” I said, as comfortingly as I could. “Nobody
thinks he had anything to do with my sister-in-law’s death. But after
all it is a murder.”

“Why are they holding him, then?”

I hesitated. She was a pathetic figure, her eyes swollen, the hands
pulling at the gloves she held showing hard work. I remembered, too, the
children the police captain had mentioned, and that Barnes had been what
he called a decent sort.

“It’s rather hard to tell you,” I said uncomfortably. “The fact
is—well, I’m afraid they think he hasn’t told quite all he knew about
last night.”

She was indignant. She flushed.

“He told all he knew,” she said stubbornly. “It’s easy enough for you to
try to put something on him, to protect your brother. But all your money
won’t save him, if he did it.”

I suppose that made me angry. Anyhow I told her the whole story, about
his denying he had seen Anna on the drive, and Anna’s insisting that he
had. I even told her that he said “to hell with the Mayor.”

She looked shocked when I had finished. Shocked and frightened. “That’s
ridiculous,” she said. “No officer would say a thing like that. Not Jim,
anyhow.”

“Somebody said it,” I told her. “Why would Anna Griffin invent such a
thing? I felt like saying it myself last night, but not even I . . .”

She didn’t wait for me to finish. She started for the door, and she was
crying again. When I got to her and touched her arm she shook me off.

“You think it’s a sort of game, don’t you?” she said. “Well, it isn’t.
It’s more than Jim’s job that’s at stake. It might be his life. I
suppose you would laugh your silly head off if anything happened to
him.”

I didn’t feel funny, however. I felt pretty sick, and it was not helped
by finding Mother awake when I went upstairs. She was covered with a
sort of whitewash, I suppose to make the doctor realize that she was
pale and needed to stay in bed. It wouldn’t have fooled anybody but a
man with double cataracts, of course, but it was no use saying anything.
She had fixed on the sunken garden as the place to bury the knife, which
didn’t help any.

I wandered down to the other house after that, more to see how the
servants were getting along than for any other reason. The reporters had
gone from the main gate on Linden Avenue, but one lone man in plain
clothes was still working through the trees and shrubbery near-by, and a
uniformed officer was on duty at the front door. He didn’t know me, but
he let me in when Mary, the parlormaid, identified me.

“Only don’t disturb anything, miss,” he said. “That’s orders.”

The house felt ghostly. There was a thin film of fingerprint powder on
the stair rail as I went up, and a chalk outline where Isabel’s body had
lain on the landing. I shivered as I stepped over it. But her room was
as she had left it, her bed turned down as she had slipped out of it,
even the magazine she had been reading still on the silk blanket cover.

I still don’t know why I lifted it. I hadn’t meant to touch anything.
But lift it I did, and a small snapshot fell out. It was the side view
of a woman near a palm tree. She wore a plain white dress, and her
profile was rather unusual, a short aquiline nose and a slightly
retreating chin. Behind her and somewhat out of focus a group of
children were playing in some sand.

It meant nothing to me. I carefully replaced it and put the magazine
where I had found it.

The servants were huddled together in the kitchen when I went
downstairs. They looked lost and unhappy, as they always do when
something upsets their routine. Anna was there, sulky and resentful. She
insisted that she had spoken to Barnes, and that he had said what she
claimed he had.

“He was kind of laughing,” she said. “I thought maybe he’d had a drink
or two. Those chauffeurs out on the Avenue had a bottle.” She gave me a
sly look. “That hunting knife of Mr. Shepard’s is missing, Miss Judy.
Mary saw it in the closet yesterday. It’s gone.”

“And I suppose you couldn’t wait to report that to the police?”

“Well, what were we to do?” she said defensively. “They were out here,
counting the kitchen knives. Anyhow it was Mary who told it. I didn’t.”

I looked them over, the cook preparing a tray of tea and fresh doughnuts
for the officer at the door, the others watching me with furtive
curiosity. In their own way they were enjoying it, I thought bitterly;
the excitement, the pictures in the newspapers, even Larry’s probable
arrest. It was a change from the dull routine of their lives.

And now the knife. I knew then that we would have to get rid of it. It
was too late to go to the police with Mother’s story. I thought of the
river. If I could get out that night and drop it from a bridge . . .

I was still planning what to do when the plain-clothes man backed out of
the shrubbery. When he straightened and turned I saw that he held
something in his hand. It was a man’s opera hat. I knew without looking
again that it was Larry’s. . . .


                                   V

To my amazement Larry came home that night. Alma was still at the
Leland’s, and I had had dinner on a tray in Mother’s room. He came in,
looking exhausted, but Mother smiled like the angel she really is when
she saw him. Her chin was trembling, though.

“So they had the sense to let you go,” she said. “I thought perhaps the
fools would try to hold you. Oh Larry, my own boy . . .”

Like me in the morning she burst into tears then, and Larry held her
poor face against his coat and got covered with whitewash.

“Of course they didn’t hold me, old girl,” he said. “Of course not.”

“I’ve been so scared, son.”

“I loved her, Mother. They know that.”

She pulled herself together after that, and looked at the smear on his
coat.

“Wipe him off, Judy,” she said. “It’s some of my night cream.” Which of
course was a shameless lie.

I waited for her to tell him about the knife, but of course it was too
much to hope for. He knew about the hat, however. It puzzled him.

“It was mine,” he said. “Only who would deliberately take it from here
and hide it in a tree?” He smiled faintly. “I think that’s why they let
me go. They couldn’t figure it out.”

The tree, it appeared, was why it had not been found sooner. It was in
the center of one of our big evergreens, and it hadn’t been thrown
there. It had been deliberately hidden. I wondered—as I am sure Larry
did—whether that was how Isabel’s killer had got up the stairs to her;
in an overcoat like his, perhaps, with the hall light dim and Larry’s
dark hat on his head.

I went with him to his old sitting room where Patrick had sent him a
tray. But he wasn’t hungry. He took some soup and pushed the tray away.

“What’s the matter with Mother?” he asked. “She can’t think I had
anything to do with it.”

“She didn’t hear from you all day,” I told him. “I think it upset her.”

It seemed to satisfy him. At least he told me what he had been doing,
talking in a queer detached voice, as though he had deliberately wiped
away all feeling. The autopsy, he said, showed that Isabel had been
killed between nine and ten o’clock the night before. It also showed
that she had been stabbed twice. The first blow had apparently knocked
her down. The second had been delivered from above, while she lay there
helpless.

It was so cold-blooded that I shivered, and Larry looked sick.

“Why didn’t she scream?” I said. “After all there must have been a
second or two, Larry, when she saw whoever it was. With all those women
in the house—”

“That’s what the police are asking me,” he said thinly. “It’s the old
story of why didn’t the dog bark.”

“But that policeman, Barnes, knows you didn’t go down to your house.”

“Barnes is missing,” he said. I nodded, and he went on. “I’ve been
wondering—Judy, did Isabel know Barnes? She had been meeting somebody
in the park in town. We don’t know who.”

“His wife says he didn’t know her. Even if he did . . .”

I sat still, thinking of his young wife that afternoon. “The kindest man
she ever knew,” she had said. And yet he had had the chance. He had been
alone in the drive, and he had not seen Larry when he went out to smoke
a cigarette and escape the noise.

Larry was pacing the floor by that time. He walked and talked, as though
he were thinking out loud. He was free, he said, because of two things,
his hat’s being found where it was, and the man Isabel had been meeting
in the park.

It seemed that MacIntyre, Isabel’s chauffeur, had told about the man.

When he arrived that morning—he was a family man and slept at home—he
had learned of the murder for the first time. Mac is a Scot, dour and
uncommunicative. He listened to the excited women, and then went out to
the garage and worked on Isabel’s limousine as usual. After that he put
on the soft hat he wears when off duty to show he is a man like other
men, and drove his old Ford down to Police Headquarters. For a long time
no one paid any attention to him. He sat on a bench outside the homicide
office for what he considered a proper length of time. Then he simply
got up, opened the door and walked in.

Larry had been taken out for a belated breakfast, but the Mayor was
there, the Commissioner of Police, the District Attorney and half a
dozen others. They stared at Mac.

“I’ve got something more to say,” Mac announced bluntly. “I’m Mrs.
Shepard’s chauffeur.”

His story was pretty incredible. Isabel had been meeting a man in the
park downtown, a shabby sort of man. For the past month once or twice a
week she had had Mac drive to one of the entrances and had gone into the
park—for a walk, she said.

“But she was never one to walk much,” Mac said, “So one day I left the
car and took a walk myself. She was on a bench, talking to this fellow.
They seemed to be arguing about something.”

“Would you know the man again?”

Mac shook his head.

“I wasn’t anywhere near,” he told them. “I never did get anywhere near.
But she met him often. Five or six times that I know of.”

It was a break for Larry, of course. Mac was of the opinion that she was
quarreling with the man, and once at least he thought she had been
crying when she came back to the car.

Larry looked crushed when he told me. “They seem to think it might be
blackmail,” he said. “But who in God’s name would try to blackmail
Isabel?”

Some bright soul among them finally thought of Barnes. They sent for a
photograph of him and showed it to Mac.

He shook his head. “Not the same guy,” he said. “Other one was older and
thinner.”

So there they were. Isabel dead, Barnes missing, and some man meeting
Isabel in the park and making her cry. An Isabel wrapped in furs on a
park bench with a strange man in shabby clothes—not once, but five or
six times. No wonder they thought of blackmail.

That was Friday night. The murder had been twenty-four hours before.
Barnes was still missing, Mother and I were both going to attend the
inquest the next morning, there were two hats in the safe at
Headquarters, somewhere Don was probably puzzling over the platinum
chain he had given Isabel, and I still had the knife to hide.

I hadn’t told Larry about it, that it was missing, or that we had it.
The police were probably keeping it as an ace in the hole, and he had
enough to bear as it was. I did make an attempt to, however. He had
insisted on sleeping in his own house, and I went downstairs with him.
There was no one in the hall, and as he opened the door I stopped him.

I remember trying to light a cigarette, but my hands were not so good.

“Look, Larry,” I said, “have they told you your knife is missing?”

“What knife?”

“Your old hunting knife.”

He didn’t say anything for a minute. He stood looking out into the
darkness, his face stiff.

“I suppose that settles it,” he said. “No. They didn’t tell me.” He
turned suddenly and faced me. “See here, Judy, did you or Mother find
it? Is that what’s wrong with her? Because if she did it’s bad business.
It’s about all they need.”

“I don’t see why.”

“For God’s sake!” he said roughly. “If my own people think I did it and
hid the weapon—”

I had recovered, however.

“Nonsense,” I told him lightly. “I never saw the thing. As for Mother,
don’t be silly. What would she have done with it. How could she have got
it out of the house. She was in a low-cut dress, and that means low.”

He let it go at that. Probably the picture of Mother in one of her
evening gowns convinced him, Mother considering there is nothing
shameful about good substantial human flesh. I couldn’t tell him the
truth, of course. I knew what he would do. He would take it straight to
the police.

“I didn’t kill my wife,” he would say, “but here’s the weapon. It
belongs to me.”

He didn’t go at once. He stood there staring out at the grounds, dark
and sinister in the dimout, and at the black hulk of his house.

“Who would kill her, Judy?” he said. “Why would she put on a dressing
gown and stand there while her murderer came up the stairs? Why didn’t
she scream? Why didn’t she run back to her room and lock the door?”

“She’d have let a policeman come in,” I said. “They’re not supposed to
be human. Suppose Barnes came in, saying he’d found the kitchen door
unlocked, and that he’d better look around to see if anyone had got in?”

“Why on earth would Barnes kill her?”

“I don’t know,” I said, deflated. “Only his being missing, and all that
. . . But there are such people as homicidal maniacs. I suppose that’s
rather fantastic, isn’t it? And there’s the hat, too. Patrick thinks it
may have belonged to the drunken waiter he had to throw out. If you
could find that waiter . . . After all he was inside the gates. Nobody
else was.”

“She wouldn’t have let a waiter up the stairs.”

“He was in full dress. She mightn’t have known who he was. And Anna had
left the kitchen door open. He could have put on your hat, and Isabel
would have thought it was you.”

He considered that, still gazing out.

“Possible, but not probable,” he said. He sighed. “Look, Judy. Who was
to know that Anna was to decide to see the party, and leave the kitchen
door open? What outsider would know about my knife, or where I kept it?
It won’t wash, my dear.”

I let him go at last. I had a queer feeling that as he walked down the
drive, somebody leaped back in the trees. So I was not going to be able
to get out and drop Larry’s knife in the river. The police were still on
the job.

Mother was reading in bed when I got upstairs. She had taken off the
whitewash and put on her night cream and her chin strap, and now that
Larry was back she looked so darned complacent that I wanted to scream.
I went over to the bed and stood looking down at her.

“Look,” I said, “they know that knife is missing. They probably know you
have it. But they aren’t going to search this house. They might as well
try to search the British Museum. And if you think I’m going out in the
middle of the night to dig a hole for that wretched thing . . .”

She put down her book and stared at me.

“I suppose you’d like to see Larry going to the chair,” she said. “Your
own brother! I can stay here in bed for days watching it, but you won’t
even lift a hand to help him.”

Well, of course it was silly. She had had a perfectly good rest, and
slept at least part of it. I was just about to tell her so when she
moved to get out of bed.

“Very well,” she said. “I’m not so old that I can’t walk out in my own
grounds and do it myself. Get me my dressing gown.”

She knew she had me, of course. I couldn’t let her go wandering around
in the dark. She would sprain her ankle or do some other fool thing. I
didn’t trust her, either. She would probably use a flashlight, and after
seeing that movement down the drive I had an idea that the police were
still keeping an eye on the place. The police around, and mother working
her way through the shrubbery giving a fine imitation of a bull elephant
on the loose. It made me shudder.

So I stalked into her bathroom, got the knife out of the tank, dried it,
and was stalking out again when she spoke.

“Do show some sense, Judy,” she said. “Wrap it in a handkerchief or
something. Do you want it covered with your prints?”

“I thought the idea was that nobody would find it.”

Nevertheless I took a handkerchief from an upper drawer and wrapped the
thing in it. I hated to touch it, and I wasn’t comforted when, as I
closed the door, I heard Mother put out her reading lamp and knew she
was going to sleep. I felt deserted, as though I were alone in a dark
and dangerous world, and I wasn’t so far wrong at that.

I didn’t go at once. I had to wait for Alma to settle down, for one
thing. I slipped on a dark dress with a coat over it, and thank heaven I
put on my tennis shoes. Then I tried a crossword puzzle and waited. I’ve
seen that puzzle since. I must have been out of my mind when I did it.
At one o’clock I gave it up and went downstairs.

There is something rather dreadful in a house the size of ours at night,
with all the lights off. Especially downstairs, with arches here and
there instead of doors—Mother likes vistas, as she calls them—and
every small sound echoing all through the place. I had always loathed
the house anyhow, and I disliked it more than ever that night. Even the
fountain in the hall sounded like a cataract, and when the kitchen
cat—which is supposed to catch mice, but spends most of its nights
trying for the goldfish in the pool—when the fool cat ran over my feet
I almost dropped the knife.

I felt a little better when I got outside. Even with the dimout there
was a faint glow over the city, enough to let me see the drive after my
eyes got used to the darkness. I kept an eye out for any policeman who
might be about, and I am certain I made no noise whatever. But one thing
was sure. If the knife was ever found it would have to be where a
murderer in a hurry to escape could have hidden it.

So I struck toward the gates on Linden Avenue and the trees and
shrubbery inside them.

Larry’s house on the other side of the drive was dark. For that matter
everything was dark, and once under the trees I had to feel my way. I
had decided on one of the hemlocks, as the branches grew close to the
ground, and when I reached the place, I slipped the knife from under my
coat and began digging a hole with it. I never finished it.

There was a sudden flash of white light that almost blinded me, and
immediately after a man’s voice spoke, from close beside me. “I’ll take
that, sister,” it said.


                                   VI

I was too shocked even to straighten. The light was gone, and I could
see only his outline. Believe me, I was shaking.

“What do you mean?” I managed to say.

But he didn’t reply. He took a step toward me, and with that my spinal
cord—not my brain, never my brain—took automatic control of my legs,
and I was running. I can run, thanks to tennis and golf and miles of
dancing. Also I had an advantage over him. I knew the grounds. Not that
he didn’t make a darned good try. He pounded after me and almost got me,
but for once I thanked heaven for Mother’s sunken garden. Either he
didn’t know it was there, or he hadn’t expected it so soon. He fell into
it with a crash, and I made the front door and locked it.

I simply sat down on the cold floor inside and tried to get some air
into my lungs. When I did I heard myself using language even I had not
known I possessed. It was a trick, all of it. Because I knew who the man
was. It was Tony King. He had laid a trap that morning, and calmly
waited for me to fall into it; waited for me with a camera and a flash
bulb. He didn’t have the knife, but I was willing to bet that the
picture showed me burrowing like a dog with a bone, and using the
wretched thing to do it with.

After a while I managed to get up the stairs. Mother’s room was dark,
but she was not asleep. She stirred when I went in.

“Everything all right?” she asked.

I turned on the lights and walked over to her bathroom door.

“I’ve just been chased by an expert,” I said. “Either by the police or
by the man who killed Isabel.”

“Oh, Judy!” she wailed. “Don’t tell me—”

“Right the first time,” I said. “We’ve still got the damned thing and in
an hour or so the police will know it too.”

I dropped it back in the tank. Mother was looking ghastly, but her mind
was all right.

“Don’t put the handkerchief in there,” she said. “It will block the
pipe. Didn’t you see whoever it was?”

I didn’t answer. I had just remembered. I had taken the handkerchief off
to dig the hole, meaning to use it later to wipe off my fingerprints.
And I had left it there. I didn’t need to tell Mother. She saw it in my
face.

“Of all the idiotic things!” she said. “With my monogram on it, too.
What on earth are we to do?”

“One thing we’re not going to do,” I said shortly. “We’re not going back
to get it. If the police find it there tell them I make it a habit to
blow my nose under a hemlock in the middle of the night. Also that I
never use a handkerchief tissue, like Queen Victoria and the blankets.
Also that I have a complex about digging holes. Also—”

She stopped me with a gesture.

“You’re hysterical,” she said, which was about the truth. “I know you’ve
had a bad time, but no use making it worse. Go to bed and let me think
this over.”

I don’t think either of us slept that night. I was angry, as well as
scared. I had a vague hope that the King man had killed himself when he
fell, and after I had darkened the room I looked out. A late moon showed
the garden clearly, but it was empty.

I must have dozed toward morning. Not much, for Mother sent for me as
soon as she had had her early tea. Sarah brought the message, looking
glum as usual.

“It’s about the inquest,” she said. “Mr. Lawrence says the police insist
that you both go. He says as you found the body—”

“Larry found it,” I said. “Get out and let me dress, Sarah. Mother can’t
go, of course.”

However, it seemed that she had to go. I found her up in a chair,
looking fit to be tied. Sarah had followed me in, but she sent her out.

“We’ve got to do it, Judy,” she said in a hollow voice. “I think Larry
has lost his mind. And I’ve called that fool doctor. He says I’m all
right. He’s told the police so too.”

Well, there we were. The tank in the bathroom might as well have
whistled and rung a bell, so conscious of it were we both. And to make
things worse, while Mother was dressing Alma came in with the morning
mail. I think she had overheard some of Mother’s protests, for she
looked oddly at us both. Mother waved the mail away, but Alma didn’t go.
She stood there, watching us.

“I think I ought to tell you, Mrs. Shepard,” she said. “There was
something queer going on outside the house last night.”

“There has been plenty queer going on,” Mother said shortly. “Get my
pearls, Sarah.”

Alma didn’t move.

“Two people were running,” she said. “I saw them distinctly. One of them
fell into the sunken garden. And one came into this house. I think you
ought to know.”

I take my hat off to Mother. She never blinked an eye.

“Don’t be a nuisance, Alma,” she said shortly. “If some of the servants
choose to play cops and robbers in the middle of the night, it’s their
business. It’s hard enough to get servants today.”

Alma saw that she was beaten. She gave a small shrug and went out.

The inquest was not too bad. Luckily it was a private one, held in a
room in the City-County Building. Except for a few reporters in the hall
outside there was no crowd. Mother went in on Larry’s arm, and as nobody
notices me when she is around, I merely trailed behind like the tail of
a kite. Don was there, as Larry’s lawyer, looking not quite his usual
debonair self. The real thrill was gone, so far as I was concerned.
After all, as somebody had said, I was a big girl now.

Nevertheless I watched him, and after a while I realized what was wrong.
He was uneasy and I couldn’t imagine why. He wasn’t called, of course.
In fact, I felt as things went on that the inquest was a pure formality.
The police were not giving anything away. It went smoothly enough at
first. Isabel’s body had been identified, part of the autopsy report was
read—only a part, as we were to learn later—and then poor Larry,
looking sick, had to tell about finding her.

“You did not touch the deceased?”

“I bent over and spoke to her. I may have touched her. I didn’t move
her, if that’s what you mean.”

“Following that, what did you do?”

“I ran back to my mother’s house.”

“Did you at any time see the weapon which was used?”

“I didn’t look for it. I never thought about it.”

“Then, when you went back to the other house, you did not carry the
weapon with you?”

Larry lifted his handsome head.

“Certainly not. I never saw it.”

I shot a look at Mother. Even in her black clothes that dyed hair of
hers managed to look flamboyant, but she was gazing ahead of her, as if
all this was merely inevitable but annoying. She was as calm as a May
morning when Larry came back and they called her. Yes, she had gone at
once to Larry’s house. She told how she had found Isabel, and that she
had touched her and realized she had been dead for some time. “No, there
was no weapon by the body.”

“Does that mean that you saw no weapon at all?”

“There are what you call weapons all over that house,” said Mother. “How
would I know which one killed her, if any of them did?”

“Do you know that a hunting knife belonging to your son is missing?”

“I believe his servants say so. It may have been gone for weeks. They’re
a careless lot.”

I couldn’t believe it when they let her go. There had been a few more
questions, about the party, how the house and grounds were guarded, if
Isabel had had any enemies, and if there had been to Mother’s knowledge
any incident in her past which might have led to her death. To this last
Mother lifted her flaming head, much as Larry had done earlier.

“I would like to remind you that my daughter-in law was a Leland. I
think that answers the question.”

All in all she gave a magnificent performance. I didn’t do so well. I
expected that awful picture of me to be shown. I was looking for
Mother’s handkerchief to be waved at me in a sort of Chatauqua salute,
and all in all my knees almost gave way under me as I stood up. Here it
comes, I thought, and went forward. For some reason however the coroner
only asked me one or two questions. I had been with Mother when we found
the deceased? Had I seen a weapon of any sort?

“I saw no weapon whatever,” I said truthfully.

“Did you know your brother’s knife?”

“I gave it to him, years ago.”

“You didn’t remove it from his house?”

“Positively no.”

That was about all. There were one or two questions about how Isabel was
lying, had we moved her at all, and so on. But even I realized by that
time that they didn’t expect to learn anything from us that morning.
Half a hundred policemen might be working on the case and probably were;
but this was a polite farce. There was no mention of the chain found
with the body, and Anna Griffin merely told of leaving the house to go
up to Mother’s “to see the party.”

“You left the kitchen door unlocked?”

“Yes. The place was full of policemen. I thought she was safe.” She had
found the door as she had left it, she said. Nothing had been disturbed.
She had gone up to her room by a back staircase, and when Isabel’s bell
did not ring she had gone to bed.

But Mary, the parlormaid, was sure about Larry’s knife. It had been
there the day before the murder. It had a reindeer handle, and she had
looked at it to see if the moths had got at it.

Rather to my surprise Patrick was called. I had not seen him. He was
somewhere in the back of the room, and he came forward unwillingly. He
testified to hearing Larry come back, and to Alma’s rushing back for
brandy for him. Then they came to the waiter who had been put out.

“At what time was that?”

“Dinner was to be at half-past eight, but we were still serving
cocktails at ten minutes to nine. I realized his condition at that time.
He was intoxicated and dropped a tray. He was out of the house before
nine.”

“How was that done?”

“One of the men and myself took him to the service entrance. There was a
police guard there. He helped him for a few yards. Then I believe he let
him go.”

“Did you know this man?”

“No, sir. He was an extra. We had employed a caterer, for extra tables,
waiters, and so on. There was some trouble getting men, with things as
they are. Mrs. Shepard’s secretary borrowed a few butlers from families
she knew, and also from different employment agencies.”

But nothing really developed. One of the guards had seen the man leave
by the main gate. He had let him go. Their orders, he said, were only to
watch the people and cars coming in. He was uncertain at what time the
man had gone.

“I wondered, because I didn’t think the dinner was over,” he said. “He
was pretty tight. He was singing as he came down the drive. He hadn’t
any hat on. I said: ‘What’s the matter? Lost your hat?’ He put his hand
to his head and said by God he had. He seemed pretty cheerful.”

But the light had been bad. Nobody could describe him except Patrick,
who has needed glasses for years, and who had merely said he was tall
and thin. I gathered that they were still checking on the men who had
been at the house that night, but I was confident their interest was
largely academic.

I hadn’t expected Don to be called. But he was. The coroner held up the
chain which had been under Isabel’s body, and asked him about it.
Evidently he had already told about it, but he looked uneasy.

“You recognize this chain, Mr. Scott?”

“I do. I gave it to Mrs. Shepard some years ago.”

“Have you seen it since?”

“Not since—not since we broke our engagement.”

“Have you any idea of the significance of this ornament on it?”

“Not the remotest.”

“Did you see Mrs. Shepard the night of her death?”

“No. I have never been in her house, that night or any other.”

“Have you any idea why it was found by her body?”

“I can’t imagine. I had no idea she still had it.”

I watched him. I hadn’t been in love with him for years without knowing
him, and I thought he was telling the truth. But not all of it. Back
somewhere in that ambitious shrewd mind of his were things he had no
intention of telling. It did something to me. Not that I suspected him
of killing Isabel. But it made me watch him. I think I felt then that he
would protect himself and his ambitions at any cost. Anyhow I felt a
little cold.

The verdict was what was expected, murder by person or persons unknown,
and I helped Mother into her coat, picked her bag from the floor as
usual, and followed her out into the hall. But that is as far as I got.
A long arm reached out from the crowd of reporters and photographers in
the hall and pushed me into a corner.

“You and I are due for a talk, Judy Shepard,” said a voice. I looked up,
and Tony King was grinning down at me.


                                  VII

I stopped dead. The others had moved on. He was even taller than I had
remembered, and he had a piece of white adhesive on his chin. I must
have looked fairly shocked, for he reached out and caught me.

“Look,” he said. “Can’t we talk somewhere? I’ve got a lot to say.”

“I hoped you’d broken your neck,” I managed to gasp.

“Now is that friendly? After keeping my mouth shut just now? Anyhow, if
it’s any comfort to you, I broke a tooth.”

He grinned again, and he had. Broken a tooth, I mean. It gave him a
quizzical look, and I stopped shaking and pulled away.

“What is this? Blackmail?” I asked.

“What a nasty mind you have!” he said mockingly. “What’s a dentist bill
between friends? Does it mean nothing to you that I damn near broke my
jaw last night? It still hurts me to talk.”

“You must like to suffer,” I said. “I suppose you gave that picture to
the police.”

“Not yet,” he said calmly. “Now listen, Miss Judy. You look like a nice
kid, and you’re in a devil of a jam. How about a quiet bar somewhere and
a little talk? Know the Bent Elbow?”

He sounded friendly, and heaven knew he held all of us in the hollow of
his big hand. I nodded, and we started off. Mother and Larry had gone
when we reached the street, and nobody noticed us. He had a small shabby
car, and I climbed into it. He was smiling again when he took the wheel.

“I’ll bet you didn’t wear heels like that last night,” he said. “Boy,
how you can run!”

“Why on earth did you chase me?” I said sourly. “You had the picture,
didn’t you? You knew I had the knife. You could go to the police any
time.”

“The answer to that is I haven’t. Not yet anyhow.”

“Why not? You’re working for them, aren’t you?”

“Not necessarily,” he said coolly. “I just happened to be around that
night. I’m curious, that’s all. A lot of things don’t fit in the story.
Maybe you are in it, maybe it’s the jolly little mother, maybe it’s big
brother. Or maybe it’s somebody else. I don’t care much for the Leland
crowd,” he added conversationally. “Come the revolution I’m for hanging
Andy to the nearest pole.”

Somehow I felt better after that. Once he reached down and patted my
hand.

“That camera of mine lies,” he said. “You’re a damned good-looking
girl.”

I loathe whisky, but I took some Scotch neat that morning, while he
looked on approvingly. And then, in a corner booth with no one near, I
simply told him the whole story. I even went back to the party, and
Larry’s hat being gone, and his finding the one which had been used to
dip the fish out of the fountain. He stopped me there.

“What kind of a party was this?” he said. “Is that your usual home
life?”

“Not really. It got out of hand.”

“I should hope so,” he said grimly. “Although the idea of your living in
that kind of an environment makes me sick. Those parties of yours . . .”

“I like them,” I said defiantly. “Anyhow, if they amuse Mother . . .”

“There’s nothing amusing about murder. All right. Don’t mind me. Go on.”

I had to trust him. He knew too much already. So I told him about
Larry’s going home and then running back, sick and collapsed, and
Mother’s having her slippers off, and going in her stockings to find
Isabel dead and the chain under her.

“What about this chain? Was Scott telling the truth about it?”

“I imagine so. None of us had ever seen it.”

“Fond of Scott, aren’t you?” he said, eyeing me.

“I used to be. Why?”

“I saw you looking at him.”

I suppose I colored, for he let it go. He listened carefully while I
told him about Mother’s finding the knife under the stair carpet and
knowing it was Larry’s, and I think he wanted to laugh when I told him
about her putting it in her stocking, and then pretending to be faint so
she could get home with it. But he was serious enough when I finished.

“Where is it now?” he asked.

“In the tank of the toilet in Mother’s bathroom.”

He grunted and looked disgusted.

“A house the size of yours, and that’s all you could think of!” he said.
“They’ll find it, sure as shooting.”

“Why? Wouldn’t they have to have a warrant to look for it?”

“They won’t work that way, my girl. Not in this case. You’ll get a
window washer in on Monday, and he’ll do more than wash windows. Or a
nice young man will take one of the maids to the movies tonight. For
ways that are dark and tricks that are vain . . .”

“But they don’t know we have it,” I protested.

He leaned over the table.

“Don’t underestimate them,” he said. “They know your brother’s knife is
missing. They need only to look at your mother to know that she never
fainted in her life. They let her get away with those half truths of
hers this morning because they’re not ready to jump.

“Look,” he went on. “I was damned sure you people had that knife and
would try to get rid of it. But that’s not why I was there last night. I
had a fool idea that whoever hid your brother’s hat in that tree you
were digging under might come back to get it and put it in a better
place.”

“Was that the tree?” I asked appalled.

“It was. And I was right, too. He did come. Only that flash of mine
scared him off. I heard him. I didn’t see him. He ran like hell.”

I felt slightly dizzy, what with no food to speak of and the Scotch and
trying to understand what was going on.

“Why on earth did he want Larry’s hat?” I asked, feeling completely
stupid.

“Look,” he said, leaning forward. “Be reasonable, girl. Would your
brother hide his hat in a tree? And don’t forget this. Somebody is
pretty anxious to pin this murder on him. The knife, left where the
police would ordinarily be sure to find it—why was that done? But
nobody but Balaam’s ass would believe that Larry Shepard had any reason
for hiding his own hat. What does it prove? Nothing.”

“I see,” I said slowly. “If some one else wore it, pretending to be
Larry . . .”

He straightened and smiled.

“A gleam at last!” he said. “Two minds that click as one.”

He finished his drink while I watched him. He puzzled me. I had a
feeling that under his flippancy he was pretty serious; that he was
trying to talk what he thought was my language. And he didn’t look too
well. Under what had once been a terrific sunburn, he lacked color.

“I think I ought to tell you,” I said. “Mother’s secretary heard you
fall last night. And I’m sorry about the tooth.”

He fingered the broken edge ruefully. Then he smiled.

“Forget it,” he said. “There’s something else on my mind. Has it
occurred to you that whoever left the knife where your mother found it
knows darned well she has it? Or you?”

“What does that mean?”

“That somebody beside the police might want it found. In that
case—well, you might try locking a few doors at night.” And seeing my
face he went on: “It’s like this, Miss Shepard. People will go a long
way to cover up after a murder. It’s the first killing that’s the
hardest. Nobody likes to kill. But after the first time the bars are
down. You can’t go to the chair—or hell—more than once. Just be
careful. That’s all.”

If it hurt him to talk that day, he certainly suffered plenty. He wanted
to know all about Isabel, her character, her life. “Because that’s the
real story, isn’t it? Why was she killed? Murder is an end, not a
beginning. It’s what goes before that counts.”

But my recital of poor Isabel’s short and simple annals disappointed
him. She had gone to boarding school. She had made the usual debut in
the Leland house, with her bouquets on a screen behind her and all over
the big double parlors. She had gone to the usual dances, and had been
neither more nor less popular than the other girls.

“What about Scott?” he asked.

“I think he was her one real love affair. Only he was nobody then. The
Lelands wouldn’t have it.”

“So she married Lawrence. Big wedding, of course. Red carpets, white
orchids and a dozen bridesmaids. I’d like to have seen you that day,
Judy Shepard. You must have been something.”

“I wasn’t a bridesmaid. There weren’t any. It was very quiet. She didn’t
even wear a veil.”

He laughed.

“I’ll bet Mother hated that,” he said, and got up.

He insisted on taking me home. We rattled and banged along in his wreck
of a car, but he didn’t talk much. He seemed to be thinking. I wasn’t
very cheerful myself. All the talk about Isabel, as well as the inquest,
had brought her back to me. Not the woman lying dead at the top of the
stairs, but the living Isabel, sitting behind her tea table, coming up
on Christmas Eve with her arms full of ribbon-tied bundles, tactfully
giving Alma her beautiful clothes, and being lovely to Mother while she
disapproved of so much she did.

That was when I remembered Mac’s story about the man in the park, and
told him. He whistled.

“Sounds like blackmail,” he said. “Only as a rule blackmailers don’t
kill the golden goose. Any idea who it was? Somebody out of her past?”

“She didn’t have any past. I’ve just told you that.”

“Everybody has a past.”

He was still apparently thinking that over when we reached the house. I
asked him to come in when we got there, but he refused. As I got out I
saw him eying that hideous pile of ours with disapproval written all
over him.

“Gives me the pip just to look at it,” he said.

Then to my intense surprise he reached into his pocket and brought out
something, carefully folded.

“With love, to Mother,” he said, and drove away.

It was the monogrammed handkerchief I had left when he chased me.


                                  VIII

When I went in it was clear that something had happened. Mother was
standing at the foot of the stairs with stark desperation written all
over her. She still wore her hat, and Alma beside her was making some
sort of soothing noises. Sarah was on the balcony above, wiping her
eyes, and Patrick and one of the footmen looked as if they were getting
ready to duck behind chairs.

Mother shoved Alma away as I went in, and if Alma hadn’t been a perfect
lady she would probably have shoved back. She kept her temper, however.

“Don’t maul me,” Mother shouted. “Some one was in my room and took it.”

“You wore it yourself this morning,” Sarah wailed from the gallery. “I
saw you. You had trouble getting your glove over it.”

“What in the world’s the trouble?” I asked. “What’s lost?”

No one paid any attention to me. Alma seemed as puzzled as I was. She
had evidently just come in. And then Mother turned a glittering eye on
Patrick, who immediately began to shake.

“What’s the matter with you?” she demanded. “I asked a perfectly simple
question. Have you lost your voice? Who was in my part of the house this
morning? And speak up so I can hear you.”

I felt a cold shiver go down my spine. But there was something wrong
with the picture. I couldn’t imagine Mother’s standing there with her
hat crooked and shouting to all and sundry that someone had taken
Larry’s knife from the tank in her bathroom. And what on earth did Sarah
mean that mother had worn it and had trouble getting her glove on over
it?

Patrick however had recovered his voice. He clicked his false teeth into
place and stated that a number of people had been in and out. It being
Saturday, the man who winds the clocks had been all over the house. The
upholsterer who was doing over one of Mother’s boudoir chairs had
delivered it and carried it up. There had been a man to read the meters,
but he hadn’t been out of the cellars. And Sarah broke in to say that
she had been in Mother’s bedroom all the time while the plumber had
repaired the tank in her bathroom.

Mother sat down suddenly.

“What about my bathroom?” she said in a dreadful voice.

“It wouldn’t work,” Sarah piped hysterically from the gallery. “I
couldn’t let you come home and find it—”

“Never mind about that,” Mother said hastily. “Why wouldn’t it work?”

“The plumber said there was something disconnected. He was only there
ten minutes. I never left the room. He hadn’t a chance to take it.
Anyhow you wore it out. I saw you.”

Like Patrick I had found my voice by that time.

“Take what, Sarah?” I asked.

“The madam’s star sapphire ring,” she wailed. “He never took it. I’ll
swear to that.”

“Did you know the plumber, Sarah?”

“No, Miss Judy. It was a new man. All the plumbers have gone to the war,
although why an army needs plumbers when all they have is—”

She stopped there and burst into fresh tears. As for me, I could feel my
legs wobbling. So Tony King had been right. Only it hadn’t been a window
washer. It had been a plumber. But the police hadn’t sent him. We had
sent for him ourselves. It didn’t make sense, unless they had our
telephone wires tapped.

“Who sent for him?” Mother asked.

“I did,” said Alma stiffly. “I was on my way out when Sarah told me.
It’s Saturday, and it was hard to get anyone.”

Mother got up. She looked utterly defeated. I remember Alma’s asking
what flowers we wanted sent to the Lelands, and mother not even hearing
her. She went into the library and closed the door. All the life had
gone out of her.

“It’s gone, Judy,” she said bleakly. “The knife. That plumber took it.”

“What about your ring?”

“I had to find out who had been upstairs. Judy, if the police have it
what on earth are we to do?”

All at once she was crying. She cried like a baby, with her poor face
crinkled and her mascara running down her cheeks. I put my arms around
her.

“We don’t know that yet,” I said. “Perhaps he just found it and gave it
to one of the servants. After all, he might not know.”

“With every newspaper in town howling about it!” she said. But the idea
cheered her. She got up. She still looked pretty well shot to pieces,
but her mind was working again.

“Go on upstairs and pretend to find my ring,” she said. “I don’t want
Sarah to cut her throat. It’s inside the radiator by my _chaise longue_.
I’ll try to think of something.”

I went up. Sarah was on her knees turning back the edges of the carpet.
I saved her throat by finding the ring, and later on we made a pretense
of eating lunch. Alma was fairly cheerful, but Mother and I both knew we
were about at the end of things. There was nothing to do about it,
either. If the police had the knife, Larry was for it. And if either the
plumber or one of the servants had it, we didn’t dare to inquire.

None of us ate much lunch. Mother pushed away her plate warily.

“I suppose cooks have to get a percentage,” she said. “But some day I am
going to order tea and toast, and get tea and toast.”

There was no word from Larry. We learned later that they had grilled him
most of the afternoon. Had he any reason to believe that Isabel
had—well, been friendly with any one else? Had he known she was meeting
a man in the park? Had he known her long before they were married? Had
he himself any idea why she had been killed?

Perhaps the thing that annoyed him most was the question of Isabel’s
will. Who inherited the money she had received from Eliza Leland’s
trust. It would normally have gone to her children, wouldn’t it? Larry
said coldly that money did not enter into it. He had adequate means of
his own. He knew nothing about the trust fund, and as to a will, she had
never mentioned one.

What really shocked him, however, was what followed all this. The
Inspector leaned back in his chair and stared hard at him.

“Now about this weapon. It was almost certainly your own knife,” he
said. “Have you any reason to believe that some member of your family
found it on the scene of the crime, and has since concealed it?”

“For God’s sake, no,” said poor Larry. “Why on earth would any one do
such a thing?”

“There is such a thing as mother love. Mr. Shepard. If she thought she
was protecting you—”

“Bosh!” said Larry roughly. “There was no weapon there when my mother
and sister arrived. I’ll swear to that. You heard my mother this morning
at the inquest.”

“I did,” said the Inspector drily. “I’ll read it to you.” He picked up a
paper from his desk and put on his glasses. “She said: ‘No, there was no
weapon by the body.’ Then asked if she saw no weapon at all, she
replied: ‘There are what you call weapons all over the house. How would
I know which one killed her? If any one of them did.’ Is that your idea
of a straightforward answer, Mr. Shepard?”

“Perhaps not,” said Larry. “It’s my idea of my mother’s reply to any
straightforward question, however.”

He even smiled a little, and the subject was dropped for the time. They
had, the Inspector said, gone over the entire list of the guests at the
dinner. Comparatively few of them even knew Isabel, and none of them had
left the house. They were now checking on the extra waiters and the
orchestra. Then, without pausing for breath, he shot a question at
Larry.

“And now, Mr. Shepard, why did you give the officer, Barnes, fifty
dollars that night?”

Larry must have looked stunned.

“Fifty dollars!” he said. “For what?”

“That’s what I want to know.”

“I never gave him anything. I never saw him except in the dark on the
drive until you brought him back yesterday morning.”

The Inspector picked up another paper.

“I’ll read you this,” he said. “It is his wife’s statement, made here an
hour or two ago.

“Jim came home Thursday night after he had put up his horse at the
police stable. It was about midnight. He didn’t act like himself. He
said he had a headache and took some aspirin. Then he said he had a
surprise for me. He reached in his pocket and took out fifty dollars,
two twenties and a ten. He said: ‘Go and buy yourself something pretty.
That’s the way the rich do things.’ I couldn’t believe it. Now and then
he gets five or ten dollars for work like that when he’s assigned to it,
but never fifty.

“I was a little worried. I asked him if it was clean money. He looked
funny but he said it was.

“He went to bed, but he didn’t go to sleep. We were still both awake
when the bell rang. He leaned out the window and someone said there was
trouble at the Shepard place, and to come along. He acted queer about
that, too. He told me not to mention the money. Then he dressed in a
hurry and went out. There was a car waiting for him.

“He came back an hour or two later. He looked terribly worried. He said
young Mrs. Shepard had been killed. Someone had stabbed her. But he did
not know anything about it. Only he did not go back to bed. He stayed
downstairs walking the floor. I did not understand it. Then before
daylight I heard another car stop, and Jim went outside.

“I heard him go out to the car and it drove off. That is all I know.
Only he has not been back since, and I am almost crazy.”

Larry had listened, I gather, with his jaw dropped.

“What have you to say to that, Mr. Shepard?”

“What am I to say? You don’t think I would do away with my only alibi,
do you?”

“If Barnes _was_ an alibi,” said the Inspector drily. “Where were you
that night, after we left your house?”

“At my mother’s. In bed.”

“Can you prove that?”

“Two of the men put me there. I wasn’t in very good shape. What do you
think I did?”

“I’m asking the questions. I want to know if later on toward morning you
took a car out of your garage, or out of your mother’s?”

“Certainly not. If you mean I was the person who picked up Barnes.
Certainly not.”

“Your garage is on a grade. It would be possible, wouldn’t it, to get a
car out without using the engine?”

But Larry had had all he could take. He blew up at that. After all he is
not Mother’s son for nothing. He told them quite a few things, mostly
unpleasant, in what amounts to hysterics in a man. And he had just
jammed on his hat and was leaving, willy-nilly, when the telephone rang.
The Inspector shouted at him to wait. Then he picked up the receiver and
listened. When he put it down he eyed him.

“They have found Barnes, Mr. Shepard,” he said somberly. “He has been
shot and killed.”


                                   IX

We knew nothing of all this that afternoon. Mother was shut in her room,
waiting helplessly to be arrested, at the very least. But if the police
had the knife they were not telling, and if the plumber still had it he
had apparently not done anything about it.

Alma had gone back to the Lelands’. She said flowers were pouring in,
and that Emily was completely helpless, poor creature. She borrowed my
car again. She made plenty to keep one of her own, but as I may have
said she never spent money if she could help it.

I had a bright idea after lunch, and called the plumbers who usually did
our work. But of course it was Saturday afternoon. Nobody answered the
telephone. Nobody rang us, either. It was a bright October day, and I
knew the golf course at the country club would be crowded—at least by
the people who had gas enough to get there. I wondered if Don Scott was
there. After all he couldn’t be really grieving for Isabel after all
this time. Or could he? Wasn’t there something about men never
forgetting the women they had loved and couldn’t get?

The hours sagged along, like slow motion. Alma came back from the
Lelands’ at four o’clock with a headache and went to bed. There was no
word from Larry, or from Tony King, and I didn’t return Mother’s
handkerchief. It would have involved telling her all the King man knew,
and she was scared enough already.

Isabel’s funeral was to be the next morning at ten o’clock. We would
have to go, of course. I looked up some black clothes and had Sarah take
some flowers off a black hat. But by four I was having an acute attack
of jitters. I went down to the library and tried to read. All I could
think of was Larry’s knife, wandering around somewhere, and Tony King’s
having the picture of me trying to bury it. He was holding out on it for
a while, but when or if the knife was produced . . .

It was five o’clock when the totally unexpected thing happened. I was at
a window when a taxi drove up and a woman got out. She was a small neat
creature in a brown coat and a rather dreadful purple hat. There was
something familiar about her, but I couldn’t decide what. She had a
small white parcel in her hand. She kept the taxi, and I heard her ask
either for Mother or me. We were not receiving casual callers, of
course, and anyhow she was the sort Patrick would definitely regard as a
person and turn away.

He did just that. Perhaps she had not expected anything else. When she
went down the steps, I had again the feeling that I had seen her
somewhere. I went into the hall. Patrick was holding the parcel and
inspecting it with interest.

“A person just called, Miss Judy,” he said. “She said to give this to
you or your mother.”

I don’t know why I didn’t open it there, in front of him. I usually do.
He loves parcels. I grinned at him and put it to my ear.

“No bomb, Patrick,” I said. “It doesn’t tick.”

He looked abashed and turned away.

And that, if you can believe it, is the way the knife came back. I had
let the woman go, I hadn’t even noticed the taxi, and when in my room
upstairs I opened the box and saw it, I simply couldn’t believe it. To
make things worse there was no writing on the paper and nothing whatever
to indicate where the box had come from.

I stood there looking at it. Either it was incredible good luck, or it
was definitely sinister. I hadn’t an idea which. All I knew was that we
had the damned thing again. It was lying in a nest of cotton, and if
anything it looked more disreputable than ever. The hide on the handle
was none the better for its long soaking in the tank, and some more of
the hair had come off. Then I remembered that it had killed Isabel, and
I went into the bathroom and lost the lunch I hadn’t eaten.

I didn’t take it back to Mother. I locked it in my jewel case and then
went across the hall. Mother was sitting up in bed with a tea tray
beside her. For the first time in her life she looked like a weazened
old woman. She could hardy hold the teacup, and when she looked at me
all the life had gone out of her eyes.

“Any word from Larry?” she asked.

“Nothing. He’s probably busy,” I said, as cheerfully as I could. But she
was not to be comforted.

“He’s probably in a cell, Judy.”

“Nonsense, Mother. They have nothing on him.”

“What do you mean, nothing? They have the knife, haven’t they?”

I took the teacup from her before she could spill it. Then I sat down on
the edge of the bed.

“As a matter of fact, Mother, they haven’t got the knife. They never
have had it.”

“What do you mean by that?” she said thickly.

“It’s come back. It’s in my room.”

I told her the story. She isn’t a particularly religious woman, although
we have a pew at St. Mark’s and she goes now and then. But when after
she heard it she lay back without speaking and closed her eyes I knew
she was saying a prayer. When she opened her eyes again, however, she
was her old shrewd self.

“It’s just what I thought,” she said. “That plumber took it and his wife
or somebody else brought it back. Probably they never read the papers.
Where have you got it?”

“In my jewel case. But it’s going to the police, Mother. There are to be
no more tanks. We’re just making things worse for Larry.”

I think she would have agreed. After all she is nobody’s fool and, as
she said, when Barnes was found he could validate Larry’s alibi; that he
had not gone to his house. But just then the telephone rang, and I
answered it from beside her bed.

It was Tony King, speaking from a pay telephone, and his voice was
grave.

“Listen, sister,” he said. “There’s a spot of trouble. Barnes has been
found, out the Sunnyside Road. He’s been shot.”

“Oh, no!” I said beginning to shake. “I can’t bear it. Do you mean he’s
dead?”

“Yes. Don’t take it too hard. These things happen. It hasn’t necessarily
anything to do with the other affair.”

“But the police think it has, don’t they?”

He hesitated.

“Well, there’s a chance. They may hold your brother for a bit. Only as a
material witness, or something of the sort. Don’t worry.”

“Listen,” I said. “Stop treating me like a child. Why are they holding
Larry? They can’t think he killed Barnes.”

I heard Mother give a thin wail from the bed, but it was too late. She
knew the worst by that time. And Tony King went on. It was possible that
Barnes had known something about Isabel’s death and had to be put out of
the way. As for details, if I wanted them, the State Police had found
the body some ten miles outside the city limits. There had been a brush
fire, and one of the troopers had gone along a wood road to put it out.
Barnes was lying there, among the leaves. He was dressed as he had been
when we all saw him last. He had been shot through the head, and he had
been dead over twenty-four hours. There was no sign of the gun which
killed him.

And Tony added something else which practically sent me into a tailspin.

“You might take a look at the cars in your garage,” he said guardedly.
“You may have some visitors before long. Somebody in a car took him to
where he was found. I want a little time, if I can get it.”

Mother was up and trying to get her nightgown over her head before I
hung up. It stuck hopelessly, of course, and I jerked it back and shoved
her toward her bed.

“What on earth do you think you can do?” I demanded. “Get back there and
stay there.”

“I’m going to my son,” she said defiantly. “He needs me. He hasn’t even
a razor, or anything to sleep in. And bread and water to eat! As though
he would kill a policeman he didn’t even know. Or his own wife.”

Which was Mother, of course, but which didn’t help any. It took some
time to get her into bed again. She was threatening to go to Washington
and see the President and the British Ambassador when I finally got out
of the room. And of course I was too late. When I got downstairs there
were three men at the garage talking to Jim, our head chauffeur, and I
didn’t need to be told that they were detectives. I watched them go
inside, and the lights go on—it was getting dark by that time—and
after a few minutes one of them drove Larry’s car out, another got into
the car they had brought, and the third one started for the house.

That was when I panicked.

Panic is a queer thing. Either you think like blazes, or you don’t think
at all. I don’t remember thinking. All I knew was that he would probably
search the house, and that the knife was in my room. The rest was pure
instinct, and pretty rotten instinct at that. I ran upstairs, put on a
loose coat, dropped the knife in my pocket and started down again.

I was just too late. The doorbell was ringing, and one of the men was at
the door opening it.


                                   X

I did the only thing I could think of. I sat down on the edge of the
fountain and slid the knife into the pool. I must have looked like an
idiot, sitting there dabbling my hand among the water lilies, but
perhaps that was the police idea of how people like us amused ourselves.
Anyhow this one took it in his stride.

He came in and took off his hat.

“My name’s Anderson,” he said. “I would like to see Mrs. Shepard, or
Miss Shepard.”

“I’m Judy Shepard,” I said, getting up. My voice sounded thin, but at
least I could speak. “I’m sorry about Mother. She’s in bed.”

“Then I’d like to talk to you,” he said, looking around him. “Is there
any place . . .”

I didn’t blame him. It was like trying to talk in Madison Square Garden.
I took him into the library and closed the door. Then I sat down,
because my knees were shaking. He produced a card and handed it to me,
but I didn’t even try to read it. He was polite enough, however.

“Miss Shepard,” he said, sitting down rather close to me. “I wonder if
by any chance you heard a car leaving your garage, the morning after
your sister-in-law was killed. Early in the morning.”

“No, I didn’t. But the men sleep over the garage. They would know.”

“You’re sure of that? Your room faces toward the garage, doesn’t it?”

They knew a lot about us, evidently. I began to feel indignant, which
was at least better than wobbling.

“If you mean did my brother take a car out at that time you’re crazy,” I
said hotly. “He was in bed, in a state of collapse. It took two men to
get him up the stairs.”

“I haven’t said anything about your brother,” he told me, and eyed me
with sharp gray eyes. “I’m merely asking about your cars.”

“Anyhow, who could get a car out that morning?” I said. “You had men all
over the place. You even had a guard at the gate.”

“There are two other gates.”

“They were padlocked. The gardeners had orders to lock them that night.
The Mayor—”

“I know all about that. Are there no other keys to them?”

Well, it was no use lying to him, with extra keys hanging inside the
service door at the rear and tags on them in Alma’s neat writing. I had
to admit it, and he began to look quite amiable. He got up and took his
hat.

“I’ll take a look at them,” he said, and went out.

I had a bad moment when he passed the fountain, but he merely gave it a
glance and went on, with Patrick, who had appeared by that time,
trailing behind him. He was not gone long, and when he came back he did
not sit down again. He told me about Barnes, watching me like a cat as
he did so; the car that had picked him up at his house, the finding of
his body, the bullet wound in his head. If he wanted to break me up he
certainly did so. And when he said they had taken Larry’s car for
examination, and that one of Larry’s revolvers was missing from his
house, I simply went berserk. I remember shouting, that there was a plot
to involve us all; that Larry had never killed anyone, and that the
whole damned police force ought to be put away as lunatics. He waited
stoically through it. Then he opened the door, and Patrick was just
outside.

“Get her some ammonia or something,” he said. “And perhaps she’d better
go to bed.” He looked at me. “I’m sorry, Miss Shepard. Just remember
this: It’s pretty hard to send even a guilty man to the chair. If a man
isn’t guilty . . .”

He didn’t finish. He put on his hat and went away, and I laid my head on
Patrick’s shoulder and cried. He put his old arm around me.

“Never mind, Miss Judy,” he said. “Never mind. It will be all right.”

I quieted after a while, but of course it was no use trying to get the
knife, with the hall brightly lighted and somebody on duty there all the
time. Neither murder nor sudden death could upset that routine. I went
upstairs and washed my face in cold water. Also I put away my jewel
case. It was six o’clock then, and it is odd to remember that it must
have been about the same time when Andrew Leland walked into Inspector
Welles’ office at Headquarters. The finding of Barnes’ body had been
announced over the local radio, and he had evidently heard it. I can
picture him sitting there in his big ugly house, red brick outside and
red carpets and brocade hangings within. All the proper Lelandish
arrangements made for Isabel’s funeral the next day, the street to be
blocked off from the curious crowd, the cards to be presented at the
door, and then because of the silence over everything, turning on the
radio.

Anyhow he walked in, still neat, still stiff, and yet somehow pathetic.
He walked over to the desk and stood there.

“I have come to demand my son-in-law’s arrest for double murder,” he
said.

“I see,” said the Inspector. “Won’t you sit down?”

But he did not sit. He stood there, straight and terrible.

“He killed my daughter,” he said. “And he killed your man so he couldn’t
tell that he had seen him on his way to do it.”

“Have you any idea,” said the Inspector quietly, “why he would have
killed your daughter?”

He must have hesitated. He knew so much, and surmised so much more.
There must have been a terrific struggle going on between his pride and
his certainty that Larry had murdered Isabel. In the end his pride won.

“I do not pretend to know what goes on between husband and wife,” he
said. “He killed her. I know that. And if you let him escape the chair I
will never believe in human justice again, or a God.”

He went out after that, as stiffly as he had gone in.

Even Alma did not know of that visit. She came downstairs to dinner,
although she said her headache still bothered her. Neither of us had
changed, and she was still in the heavy black she had worn to the Leland
house.

But her rooms were in the same wing as mine, and she had seen the
detectives.

“What did they want?” she asked. “One of them took a car away, didn’t
he?”

“Larry’s car. Yes.”

“But why?”

“Don’t ask me,” I said shortly. “They’ve found the policeman, Barnes.
Somebody shot him.”

She looked shocked.

“Shot him!” she said. “Why on earth would anybody do that?”

“It’s perfectly simple,” I said. “Larry killed Isabel. Barnes saw him,
so he killed him too. Now all they have to do is find blood in his car
and he’ll go to the chair.”

She looked at me sharply.

“You’d better take a sedative,” she said. “You’re on the edge of a
crack-up, Judy.”

She followed me into the library. I wanted to be alone, but I saw she
had something more to say, and she proceeded to say it.

“I think I’d better tell you something, Judy,” she said. “I know you’ll
keep it to yourself. I’m pretty sure someone did take a car out of the
garage the night Isabel was killed. Some time toward morning.”

I must have looked startled, for she smiled.

“Don’t worry, I’m not telling it,” she said. “I couldn’t sleep, and you
know where my rooms are. It went toward the service gate. I didn’t think
much of it at the time. The place was crawling with cars. But later I
remembered. Those gates were locked that night.”

I was definitely frightened. I had never thought of Alma as a source of
danger. Yet if she was questioned, she might be. There must have been
times when she compared her lot with mine. And I hadn’t even told her
that I was trying at last to be a useful citizen. She would only have
thought I was dramatizing myself. For the first time I wondered if she
really liked any of us.

For a minute I had a wild impulse to bribe her, to offer her my mink
coat, to try to buy her silence with anything I had. I think she knew it
too. She stiffened.

“I’ve said I’m not telling, Judy,” she said quietly. “Let it go at
that.”

Her headache was better after dinner. She suggested some gin rummy, and
we played for half an hour or so. I lost three dollars—she could always
beat me—and feeling that I had added a trifle to the silence fund went
up to see Mother. We had dined early, and it was still only
eight-thirty. Mother was over her hysteria. She was playing solitaire,
as she always does when she is nervous. She was sitting up in bed with a
board on her knees.

“I’ve put in a call for the Governor,” she said. “Of course the wretch
is out to dinner. You would think he had enough to do to run this State
without going to parties.”

“Like the Mayor?”

“I had a reason for asking the Mayor,” she said coldly.

She deliberately cheated herself as usual, and when the thing came out
she announced that she had won two hundred and eight dollars. But she
was still worrying about Larry.

“You’d better go down tonight and pack a bag for him,” she said. “The
poor boy hasn’t even a clean handkerchief. And if those wretches use a
rubber hose on him maybe you’d better take some iodine.”

I assured her they would do nothing of the sort, and she relaxed
somewhat. But I had to tell her about the knife, that it was in the
pool, and why. She looked worried at first. Then she thought it over.

“Perhaps its not such a bad hiding place after all,” she said. “I read a
story once, something about a letter. They merely turned it inside out
or something, and left it where anybody could see it.”

I laughed a little, and kissed her.

“Then you did read a book once,” I said. “Well, chin up, old girl. We’re
not beaten yet.”

Maybe it was the mention of a chin. Don’t ask me. I know nothing about
the human mind. But all at once I remembered why the woman who had
brought back the knife that afternoon had seemed familiar. Her profile
had been like the one in the snapshot I had found in the magazine in
Isabel’s room, chin and all. In that case . . .

I didn’t stop to think it out. I didn’t tell Mother. When I left her I
went downstairs and got my coat from the powder room where Patrick had
hung it that afternoon and started for Larry’s house.

To my relief the police guard had gone. The place was dark, except for
the service wing and a light upstairs, shaded for the dimout. I went in
through the kitchen. Only Anna was there. She was listening to the
radio, and her eyes were bright with excitement.

“They found that policeman, Miss Judy. Somebody killed him.”

“Yes, I know, Anna. Is it all right if I go upstairs?”

“Why sure, miss, Mr. Scott’s up there. He came to get some things for
Mr. Shepard. He’s not coming home tonight.”

She was enjoying it, I thought furiously. It didn’t matter to her that
not far away Jim Barnes’s wife and children were in trouble, or that
Isabel was dead, or Larry might never come back. I left her there and
went almost blindly up the stairs. A small bag of Larry’s was standing
packed in the hall, but there was no sign of Don. I suppose I had moved
quietly. The carpets are very thick. For when I did locate him he was
not in Larry’s room. He was in Isabel’s, bending over an open chest of
drawers and fumbling in it.

He looked completely shattered when he saw me.

“Larry doesn’t keep his things there,” I said. “What’s the idea, Don?”

I think he hated me just then. He shrugged his shoulders and gave me an
imitation of a smile.

“You would turn up,” he said. “Well, if you want the truth, I was
looking for something. It isn’t here, so—that’s that.” He fumbled for
his cigarette case. “I suppose you know they’re holding Larry?”

“Why on earth would they? They can’t think he killed Barnes.”

He didn’t answer immediately. He lit a cigarette before he spoke.

“I’m afraid it’s his car. I’m sorry, Judy, but they think Barnes was
shot in it. Of course it’s ridiculous, but . . .”

I suppose I had expected it. I wasn’t surprised. It was all part of the
net closing around us. But I was angrier than I had ever been in my
life.

“You believe it, don’t you, Don?” I said bitterly. “You’re standing by
him, but you think he’s a monster; that he’s killed two people, the
woman he loved and a man he didn’t know. Then you come here snooping, to
find something to prove him guilty.”

It got under his skin.

“I wish you’d keep out of this,” he said roughly. “There are angles you
don’t know. If I could only find out . . .”

I stood staring at him. He wasn’t really angry. He was frightened, as he
had been at the inquest. I took a step or two toward him.

“You didn’t happen to have done it yourself, Don, did you? What are you
doing here? What are you looking for?”

“Don’t talk like a fool,” he said. “Of course I didn’t kill her. But
somebody did. That policeman too. Good God, do you think I ran amok that
night?”

“What about the man she was meeting in the park?” he went on more
quietly. “Who was he? What sort of trouble was she in? Tell me that and
I’ll know why she is dead. I’ve got to know, Judy. If Larry did it he
can go to the chair, and I’ll be glad of it. It just happens that I
don’t think he did.”

“You were still in love with her, weren’t you, Don? What a frightful
nuisance I must have been, running after you the way I did.”

“Certainly not,” he said manfully. “I’m fond of you, Judy. I always have
been.”

A few days before it would have been the death knell, of course. Now I
managed to laugh. All at once I saw myself running in circles after the
little tin god who was not god at all, but only tin. I laughed, and he
looked embarrassed.

“Don’t give it another thought,” I said. “And now let’s find what you
were looking for.”

It appeared that it was his old letters to Isabel. He said she might
have kept them. She had kept the chain. I didn’t believe him for a
minute, but I stood by while he made a further perfunctory search. The
room had been cleaned by that time. The bed had been made up, and when I
remembered the magazine I could not see it. I found it finally with some
others in Isabel’s boudoir, but the snapshot was gone.

I called Anna. She remembered the picture. It had fallen out when she
was helping to clean the room. She said she had put it on the mantel,
but it was not there.

She stood eying us both curiously.

“It was just a snapshot,” she said. “Maybe Mr. Shepard took it, or it
blew out the window while the window washer was here.”

So it was a window washer this time. Not a plumber. But then it never
had been a plumber. I was fairly dizzy.

“What about it?” Don asked impatiently. “Why is it important?”

“Because I think I saw the woman in it today.”

But I couldn’t explain. I couldn’t say that the woman had brought back
the knife which had killed Isabel. Also I wasn’t too sure of Don by that
time. How did I know he didn’t have it himself, in a pocket or in his
wallet? When Anna had gone he confronted me.

“What about this woman?” he asked. “See here, Judy, if you’re holding
out anything, you’d better tell me. Where did you see her, and why do
you want her picture?”

I told him half the truth, that she had called at the house, that we
hadn’t talked to her, but her face had been familiar, and that she
resembled the woman in Isabel’s picture. He made me describe her, which
I did, palm tree and all. So far as I could see, however, it made no
impression on him.

He left before I did. The last I saw of him he was carrying Larry’s bag
down the stairs, and soon after I heard his car starting up. He had left
it out on Linden Avenue, which made me wonder rather.

I took another look for the snapshot after he had gone, with Anna
helping me. I couldn’t find it, and my heart was really not in the
search. I dreaded going back and facing Mother. I dreaded the night, and
still more the next day. The Sunday papers out, announcing that Larry
was being held as a material witness, and Isabel to be buried somehow;
the gaping crowds, a police line, masses of flowers, and nothing meaning
anything to her any more.

When I went down the stairs I saw a small neat piece of carpet had been
cut out from where Mother had sat. And one of Larry’s automatics was
missing from the gun room. The police were certainly building their
case.


                                   XI

When I left Larry’s house, I stepped into complete blackness.
Remembering Tony King’s story of the man who had been in the grounds the
night before I felt uneasy. But all I saw was an old-fashioned car
driving out, which looked like the Lelands’, and after it two of the
maids, feeling their way down the drive, probably to a late movie. I had
cut across the lawn so they did not see me. They were to be important
later on, those two women, to figure largely in our solution. But I did
not know it then.

When I got back to the house, I found Patrick looking unhappy, and Tony
King sitting beside the fountain playing with the fish! My heart almost
stopped. Apparently, however, he had not discovered the knife. He looked
quite cheerful, with his hat on the floor beside him and a new haircut.
He pulled his sleeve up further and made another swipe at the fish and
brought up a wriggling fantail.

“Why don’t you ever feed the creatures?” he said. “Throw them a little
caviar now and then?” He grinned at Patrick and got up. “Any place with
doors in this hovel of yours?”

“We can go back to the morning room.”

“Even a special place to mourn, eh?”

But Patrick had stood all he could. He picked the hat from the floor and
informed me that I had had several visitors. Also that if I would please
inform him when I was going out . . .

“Who were here?” I said impatiently.

“The person who left the parcel this afternoon was back,” he said. “She
waited for some time. After she had gone there was a man who I believe
was an officer in plain clothes. When he found you were out he asked for
your mother, but she had gone to bed. And Mr. Leland has only just
driven away. He waited for some time.”

“Mr. Leland! For me?”

“He asked for Mrs. Shepard first. I told him she was resting and seeing
nobody.”

“What’s all the excitement?” Tony King inquired as I closed the morning
room door. “Sounds like the Pennsylvania Station. Has something new
turned up here?”

“Nothing that I know of.”

He gave me a cigarette and took one himself. I wanted to ask if he knew
what they had found in Larry’s car, but couldn’t quite do it. And he was
busy getting something out of his pocket.

“I’m not very keen about this,” he said. “You look as though you’ve had
about all you can take. But it’s got to be done. It’s the report of the
autopsy on your sister-in-law. I’m afraid you’ll have to look at it.”

I drew back.

“Please,” I said. “I don’t want to. It’s dreadful.”

“I’m afraid you’ll have to. There’s a line or two in it you ought to
see.”

He had pulled out a handful of envelopes. Now he extracted a paper from
among them, and handed it to me. I didn’t want to take it, but there was
something compelling about the way he held it out. It was a typed copy,
on flimsy yellow paper, as if he had done it himself.

I turned on a lamp and read it.

I suppose it was the usual routine report. It gave Isabel’s age as
twenty-seven, and her weight. Then there was a report of findings: two
incised wounds and the severance of some artery or other. But it was the
final paragraphs which held me. They came under what was termed
inspection, and it was cold-blooded enough to give me a chill.

The body, it said, was one of a white female, in apparently good health.
All organs were normal. Examination revealed—and here I dropped the
paper—that she had borne a child.

He was watching me.

“Didn’t know about it, did you?”

“No. I don’t believe it.”

“I’m afraid it’s true. I had to find out. She and your brother have no
children, have they?”

“No.”

“None born dead? Nothing of that sort?”

I shook my head. I was beyond speech. It looked to me as though Larry
was finished. If they could prove he hadn’t known she had ever borne a
child and then had learned it . . .

He threw away his cigarette and pulled a chair close to me.

“Don’t take it too hard,” he said. “These things happen. In one way it
might be dangerous. In another—well, put it this way. Suppose somebody
knew this story, and was blackmailing her?”

“Why kill her?” I said bleakly. “She could have paid.”

“Any idea who could have been the child’s father?”

I shook my head.

“She wasn’t that sort. She was engaged years ago to Donald Scott, but
the Lelands wouldn’t have it. He was nobody then. They made her break it
off.”

He whistled.

“Scott!” he said. “He’d go a long way to kill a scandal like that.”

“He wouldn’t kill her. Never. He was still in love with her.”

He gave me his broken-toothed smile.

“Nice little motive for you, isn’t it? The beautiful sister-in-law, the
man who couldn’t forget her, and the girl who couldn’t forget him. Many
a crime has been committed for less.”

He got up, putting the report back in his pocket. He had succeeded in
annoying me, which he probably thought was better than seeing me cry.

“What we have to do,” he said cheerfully, “is to get the story behind
this story. When we do, I’m taking all bets that Larry comes marching
home.”

I was surprised. “I thought you were working with the police,” I said.

He looked shocked.

“My dear child, I’m on the side of law and order. Justice will prevail,
and so on.” He grinned. “Actually, I’m working to get a poor little rich
girl and her redheaded mother out of a jam.”

“You aren’t a police photographer?”

For some reason that seemed to amuse him. He chuckled.

“Poor little Judy!” he said. “What a sheltered life she leads! But I
like sheltered women. They feed my superiority complex.”

He left after that. Patrick gave him his hat, and he set it jauntily on
his head.

“Take a little advice,” he told me. “Go to bed and stay there. No use
looking for trouble.”

I felt rather lost when he had gone. As for going to bed and staying
there, I couldn’t of course. There was that miserable knife to be
disposed of again, and I had no idea how to do it. With Larry under
arrest I was certain the police would search both houses, and I was
afraid to go outside again.

Nevertheless it had to be taken out of the pool, and at one o’clock in
the morning I went downstairs in a bathrobe and slippers. I carried a
flashlight and I went directly to the pool. The kitchen cat was on the
brim, trying as usual to claw out a fish.

But the knife was gone.

I couldn’t believe it at first. The pool is fairly large and I crawled
around it on my hands and knees, with the fish rushing wildly about and
the cat making sharp little dabs at them with her claws. What with the
splash from the fountain and reaching under the water lilies, I was
pretty wet when I finally gave up.

To my horror Sarah was on the gallery when I started up the stairs.

“What on earth were you doing, Miss Judy?” she said. “What were you
looking for?”

“I thought I’d dropped my blue clip in the pool.”

She didn’t believe me. I could feel her stiffen in the dark. She did not
persist, however. She said Mother had rung for her sleeping medicine,
and she followed me into my room and made me change my pajamas before
she left. Of course the blue clip was in plain sight on my dressing
table. She pounced on it.

“Why, here it is, Miss Judy,” she yelped. “I don’t see how you missed
it.”

But I had had enough.

“Oh, get the hell out of here, Sarah,” I said, and crawled into bed.

Some time toward daylight I dozed off. I had had the bright idea that
Mother had taken it herself. She was quite capable of it; slipping down
while the servants were having supper and the hall was empty. But I
didn’t sleep long. I heard Sarah tap with Mother’s morning tea, and
after she had gone I went over to her bedroom.

Mother had taken off her chin strap and was looking fairly cheerful. She
said she had decided to see our senator instead of the governor, and of
course they couldn’t hold Larry under any circumstances. After all we
had always contributed to the Republican Party, and had I any black
stockings for the funeral that day.

I broke in on her resentfully.

“If you took that thing it was a dirty trick, Mother,” I said. “You
could at least have told me.”

She put down her cup and stared at me.

“Told you what?” she asked.

“About the knife.”

She looked blank, and my heart sank.

“What about it? What are you talking about, Judy?”

“Didn’t you take it? Out of the pool?”

She looked as though I had struck her.

“Don’t tell me it’s gone again!” she gasped, and I caught her tray
before it slipped off the bed. Her face was dead white. “I don’t believe
it. You didn’t look properly.”

“I looked all right,” I said grimly. “I fished every inch of that damned
pool. Me and the cat,” I added. “Somebody’s taken it.”

She looked at me pitifully.

“Don’t tell me it was somebody in the house. I couldn’t bear it, Judy.”

I was thinking hard.

“It doesn’t have to be somebody in the house. There were four people
down there last night, with Patrick rushing all over the house to locate
me. Maybe it was in plain view of anybody who looked at the pool. The
fish may have shoved it around, or moved the lily pads. I don’t know,
Mother. Somebody must have seen it. I—”

I stopped abruptly. I was remembering Tony King, his sleeve pushed up
while he dipped a long arm into the pool; grinning and picking up a
fish, and asking why we didn’t throw them a little caviar now and then.
He had it. He had had it all the time. Lighting my cigarette, giving me
that horrible report to read, and all the time the knife which would
send Larry to the chair in his pocket. Picking my brains, getting the
name of the man Larry might have been jealous of, pretending to be sorry
for me, and fitting together the little pieces of his puzzle until he
had it all.

The dirty crook, I thought furiously. Smiling at me, showing his broken
tooth, and all the time the knife in his pocket. I could have killed him
out of sheer fury.


                                  XII

We went to Isabel’s funeral that morning. Mother was determined to do
it, whether Andrew Leland suspected Larry or not.

“Why should we stay away?” she inquired tartly. “I was fond of her. If
we don’t go it will look queer, too; as though we suspected Larry
ourselves.”

It was pretty bad, the crowds on the street, the police and the awful
funeral odor of flowers everywhere. But at least it was civilized.
Nobody saw Isabel. She was somewhere upstairs. The family was there,
too. Mother, shrouded in black, wept quietly all through the service. I
tried not to bawl. And Larry, who came in rather late with a man who was
obviously a guard, went back to some place in the rear. He looked like a
man carved out of stone. Mother didn’t see him, or I knew she would have
followed him.

She didn’t even notice what followed, when the service was over and
people were filing quietly out. There was a space around us big enough
to park a car. Nobody spoke to us except the undertaker, who asked if we
were expected at the cemetery. I think Mother would have seen the whole
thing through, but I had had enough.

“We are Mr. Shepard’s mother and sister,” I said. “I don’t think we are
expected anywhere.”

He gave me a strange look and turned away.

I suppose that shows the state of my nerves. Mother hadn’t even heard
me.

The afternoon was dreadful. Mother had gone back to bed, with Sarah in
attendance, Alma had not returned, and the house was deadly quiet. When
I turned on the three o’clock local news the radio said that the police
had located what they called the murder car in which Barnes had been
taken to his death. They had found blood stains in it, but were giving
out no further information.

Soon after that I got my car and drove to the Barnes house. I couldn’t
bear to have her there alone, thinking Larry had killed her husband and
that we didn’t care what happened to her. It was a pretty little place,
as neat as a pin, but I got no further than the front door. A strange
woman opened it and looked at me.

“I’d like to see Mrs. Barnes,” I said, rather breathlessly. “I’m so
dreadfully sorry. If I can do anything . . .”

“What name, miss?”

“I’m Judy Shepard.”

I never saw a face change so quickly. She gave me a hard look, from head
to foot, before she spoke at all. Then she said:

“You’d better go back where you came from, Miss Shepard. We don’t want
you here.”

She slammed the door in my face, and I felt as though she had hit me
with it.

Alma was back when I went home. She was in the hall pulling off her
black gloves, and she looked tired and strained.

“Thank God that’s over,” she said. “Although the Lelands were wonderful.
They always are.”

“I wonder what he wanted here last night?”

“I didn’t know he was here,” she said slowly. “Did he ask for me?”

“No. He wanted Mother or me.”

It seemed to upset her. She stood there, straightening her gloves and
thinking.

“He’s been rather strange the last few days,” she said. “Judy, what
happened to the chain and the thing on it that they found? I suppose the
police have it?”

“Yes. You knew Isabel better than I did, Alma. What in the world was
that tassel arrangement on it?”

“I don’t know. I never saw it.”

She went up to her room, and I wandered into the library. The telephone
was ringing, and I heard Tony King’s voice.

“Hello,” he said. “I hope you had a good sleep last night. You certainly
needed it.”

I almost choked with fury.

“Listen to me,” I said. “I don’t want to talk to you. I don’t want ever
to see you again. Go ahead with your dirty work. See if I care.”

I slammed down the receiver. He was shouting into the telephone as I did
so, but I didn’t listen. When it rang again I simply took the receiver
off the hook and left it off. After that I tried to think. It was no
use, of course. When Patrick brought in the Sunday papers he replaced
the telephone, but it did not ring again.

He was about to go when I called him back. He stood there blinking at me
with the eyes which had needed spectacles for years, spectacles he
refused to wear.

“About the detective who was here last night?” I said. “Did he say why
he wanted Mother or me? When you couldn’t find me?”

“No, miss.”

“What was he doing when you came down?”

“I think he was watching the fish.”

“And the woman? The one who had been here that afternoon?”

She too had stood by the pool while he looked for me again. But she had
seemed uneasy, he thought. When he told her I wasn’t around she had
hurried out. As for Mr. Leland, he had walked up and down the hall,
refusing to go anywhere else. He had been there alone for some time.
Then suddenly when Patrick reported that he could not find me he had
clapped on his hat and stalked out.

So it really came back to Tony King.

I remember sitting down and trying to follow the knife in its
wanderings. Mother’s hiding it in the tank in her bathroom, the
plumber’s finding it and sending it back. For that was the only
explanation I could think of, that he had realized its import and sent
it to us. Then my hiding it, first in my jewel case and then in the
pool, and its disappearance from there. Only—why had the woman who had
returned it come back again?

Out of sheer exhaustion I picked up the newspaper and glanced at it.
There was no mention of Larry’s car, but it said he was being held as a
material witness. There was a full page of pictures of me, surrounded by
flowers when I came out; of mother in a low dress and the high diamond
collar she wears to hold her throat up; of the house, called “Suspected
Millionaire’s Castle”; and even one, evidently sneaked by a reporter, of
the hall and fountain. The only thing missing was the tank in mother’s
bathroom, and by contrast was the Barnes house, set in the center of the
page and entitled “Home Of Murdered Policeman.”

All in all I wondered why the decent people of the town didn’t march out
and burn us down. I tore it out and put it in the fire, but by that time
I was in what amounted to a frenzy. I tried to read again. I saw that
Barnes was to be buried the next day, with full Police Department
honors: the Commissioner and his deputies, an honor guard of patrolmen
and the department band. But there was another item which caught my eye
and held it in frozen horror.

A woman had jumped off one of the downtown bridges late the night
before. Another woman who happened to be near her had tried to catch
her, but had failed. She had not fallen into the water, however. A barge
was passing below, and she fell into it. She was critically injured, but
was conscious when found. She had refused to give her name.

She was about forty years of age, and she had been neatly dressed in a
brown coat and a small purple hat!

I had to know. I called Police Headquarters and asked for Inspector
Welles, but he was out, and when I asked for Tony King nobody seemed to
know anything about him. The officer at the switchboard had apparently
never heard of him.

It was impossible to settle down. At five o’clock I got my car again and
drove to the hospital, only to be rebuffed. So far as the girl on duty
in the office was concerned, there was no woman there who had worn a
purple hat and jumped off a bridge. I was still standing, unwilling to
leave, when Inspector Welles came down in the elevator. I turned my back
quickly, but he saw me.

He looked surprised and came over.

“I was just inquiring for a sick friend,” I babbled. “They won’t let me
see her. I do think it’s disgraceful, the money we give these places
and—”

The girl behind the grill looked up.

“She was asking for the woman in Forty-Two,” she said.

There was a queer little silence. The elevator came down again and Tony
King got out. He looked even more surprised than the Inspector had.

“Hello,” he said. “What are you doing here?”

Well, there I was, with all three of them staring at me. You would have
thought I had pushed the woman off the bridge myself. I couldn’t even
speak. It was the Inspector who broke the silence.

“Suppose we go into the reception room,” he said. “See that we aren’t
disturbed, Miss Clark.”

When we were inside he closed the door and confronted me.

“Just what is your interest in this woman, Miss Shepard?” he inquired
grimly.

“I saw the description of her in the paper. A woman dressed like that
came to the house yesterday. She asked for Mother or me, but we weren’t
at home to anybody.”

“How did you know how she was dressed?”

“I saw her get out of the taxi. I suppose it was silly. There must be a
thousand women around with clothes like that. I just thought . . .”

He made me sit down. I suppose I looked excited. He even offered me a
cigarette, although he continued to watch me. As for Tony King, he had
wandered to a window and stood there looking out. What his back said was
that this was up to me. He was through. If I wanted to go on making a
fool of myself . . .

“Now let’s get at this,” said the Inspector. “Why did she call on you?
Did she leave any message?”

I suppose I hesitated. I could see Patrick holding the white parcel
containing the knife and eying it curiously. He would tell them if I
didn’t. But I couldn’t say it was the knife.

“She left a small parcel,” I said. “Perhaps Mother has it. I haven’t
asked her. She’s not well. Besides, dozens of packages come to the
house.”

I thought I had done rather well, but Tony King had turned and was
looking at me, and the Inspector plainly didn’t believe me.

“So you read the paper, and saw that a woman in a brown coat and a
purple hat had been hurt, and rushed here to see her. Is that it?”

“I didn’t rush. I simply came—”

Behind the Inspector Tony King was shaking his head. I stopped, and the
Inspector hitched his chair closer.

“Are you sure that’s quite correct, Miss Shepard?” he said. “Suppose I
suggest that it was exactly the reverse of what you say; that this woman
came to your house, but instead of leaving this parcel it was given to
her? What would you say to that?”

“It isn’t true,” I said wildly. “You have to believe me. Nobody gave her
anything.”

His voice changed. He didn’t raise it. It simply became harsh and cold.

“What do you know about this woman,” he said. “Who was she? What was she
doing there? And what are you doing here, trying to see her?”

It wasn’t any use. I saw that. I never even offered a protest when he
got up and asked if I had brought my car. When I said I had, he told
Tony to drive me in to town. And even Tony King had little to say on the
way. He had abandoned his cheerful grin entirely. He looked older and
very tired.

“What was the reason for that outburst of yours this morning?” he asked.

“You ought to know.”

He frowned over that.

“I?” he said. “What had I done?”

“Gone fishing in the pool last night. Don’t deny it. I saw it myself.”

He raised his eyebrows.

“I see,” he said thoughtfully, “and what did I find? It wouldn’t by any
chance have been a knife?”

“I thought you were helping us, and all the time you’ve been working
against us.”

To my surprise he took a hand off the wheel and patted my knee.

“I am helping you, little Judy,” he said. “At least I’m trying to, but
you make it so damned hard I’m thinking of giving it up.”

That was all until we got to the Inspector’s office. There was a man in
the outer room waiting, and at a gesture from the Inspector he followed
us in. He was a taxi driver, and he carried his cap in his hand. He
stood in front of the desk while the Inspector questioned him.

“You’re Johnson?”

“Yes, sir.”

“You’ve seen her?”

The taxi driver nodded.

“It’s the same woman. I’d know her anywhere. I saw her hat too. She’s
the one.”

“You waited for her?”

“Yes, sir. The man at the door let her in. She wasn’t there very long.
Only a couple of minutes.”

“Where did you take her after that?”

“I left her at Fifth Street, downtown. I think she went into the park.”

He was sent out and told to wait. The Inspector picked up some papers
and glanced over them. Then he took off his glasses.

“I brought you here, Miss Shepard,” he said, “because I think it’s time
you talked. You are not helping your brother by your silence. What about
this woman? Did you know her? What was her name? Where did she live?”

“I’ve told you. I never saw her before. I didn’t speak to her that day.
I’d told the butler to say I was out. The only thing—”

“Yes?”

“Well,” I said desperately. “I told you I saw her when she was leaving.
I thought—well, after Isabel’s death I found a snapshot in the magazine
she had been reading that night. There was a woman in it, standing by a
palm tree. She looked like her.”

“Where is this snapshot now?”

“I don’t know. I’ve looked for it. It’s gone.”

“That was all it was? A woman and a tree?”

“There were some children in it. I didn’t notice them particularly.”

He looked at Tony King, who merely lit a cigarette.

“What did I tell you?” he said. “Curiouser and curiouser, isn’t it?”

The Inspector didn’t think that was funny. He sat still, apparently
undecided about something. Finally he threw the something at me.

“What about this knife of your brother’s? Was it you or your mother who
smuggled it out of the house that night?”

I didn’t answer. I couldn’t.

“All right,” he said, “let that go. How did the woman who tried to kill
herself last night get hold of it? Did you give it to her?”

“Do you mean she had it?” I said wildly. “Then she did get it, after
all!”

“She had it,” the inspector said. “She had it when she fell. It was in
her bag. She is dead now, so she can’t tell her story. But I think you
can.” He lifted something and held it out to me. “You might look at
this.”

I did. It was a greatly enlarged picture of me looking like a skinned
rabbit and digging frantically at the hole under the hemlock. There was
no question either of what I was digging with. It was a knife. Larry’s
knife.


                                  XIII

I knew then that it was over; all our struggle, the lies I had told for
Larry’s sake, the fight we had put up to save him. When Tony King
sauntered over to look at it, I was speechless.

“Not bad, is it?” he said complacently. “Not that it flatters you any.
But I told you I took pretty good pictures. Some day you’ll have to let
me—Here, sit down!”

I did sit down. I also, when I had got control of my vocal cords again,
I told him what I thought of him, that under pretense of helping me he
had thrown me to the wolves. I’m afraid I made it stronger than that,
for I remember his saying that it was no language for a lady, and a
young one at that. I must have got under his skin, for he put a not too
gentle hand on my shoulder.

“Listen,” he said. “You’re a pampered brat, but for some strange reason
I don’t want to see you locked up, or your mother either. The beds are
bad. Now come clean, or it’s going to be bad for both of you.”

That was how I came at last to tell the story of the knife. It was dark
by that time. Someone turned on the lights. A uniformed stenographer
came in and sat at a table. A couple of detectives stood by. Tony King
chain-smoked. And because there was nothing else for me to do I told it
all, from Mother’s finding the knife under the stair carpet to my
scratching her leg to account for the blood on her stocking; from my
trying to bury it to Tony King’s discovering me; from my hiding it again
in the bathroom tank to the plumber’s getting it out and taking it away;
and from the woman’s bringing it back to my dropping it in the fish
pool, and its disappearance from there.

I stopped there, except to add that the dead woman had come back to see
me again the night before, and that she must have seen it and taken it.

The Inspector sat back in his chair when I finished.

“Has it occurred to you,” he said drily, “that if you had told this
story sooner you might have saved at least one life? Maybe more.”

“How could I? I didn’t know she had it.”

“That’s what you say,” he stated unpleasantly. “How did she know it was
in the pool, Miss Shepard? Granting that it was in the pool. And I will
add something else. One of our men has been killed. That makes three
deaths, all apparently connected. We don’t like our men being killed.”

There was a sort of movement in the room, like a wave of anger. I could
feel it. The men there were hostile, almost menacing. I think Tony King
saw it, for he got up.

“If that’s all, Inspector,” he said, “I’ll take her along.”

So at least they were not holding me. I relaxed somewhat, and I managed
to sign the statement. But once outside the building Tony stopped and
looked at his wrist watch.

“Time to eat,” he said. “How about a hamburger? Ever try one?”

I hadn’t enough spirit left even to resent that. I nodded, and before
long I was finding I was hungry. I ate four hamburgers and drank
incredible amounts of coffee. I realized I had hardly eaten for three
days. He watched me, looking kinder than he had before.

“You’ve been carrying quite a load, haven’t you?” he said. “You’ll feel
better, now it’s off your chest. How about a little apology? Since I
didn’t take the knife.”

“I feel like a heel,” I told him. “I’m sorry. But I told the truth. She
got the knife herself. I never gave it to her.”

He yawned and stretched.

“I know it,” he said. “You weren’t there to do it. You were in your
brother’s house with Scott.” He yawned again, then he grinned. “I hope
to God you stay in bed tonight. I need some sleep.”

“You don’t mean . . . ?”

“Sure I mean it. How about the man who came looking for your brother’s
hat? How about the knife? I couldn’t have you getting any more ideas
about doing away with it in the dark of the moon. I’ve been practically
living on your front lawn. Don’t worry. I can sleep tonight. The knife’s
gone. Get someone else to find it.”

“Find it?” I said. “I thought the Inspector had it.”

“That’s just his little way. As a matter of fact, somebody got to the
hospital ahead of us and took it.”

He told me what had happened. At nine o’clock that morning a
man—description, tall and thin, rather shabby—said he had seen the
article in the paper and asked to see the woman. She was unconscious,
but he had identified her as his wife, and had looked so faint that the
nurse had gone to get him some aromatic ammonia. He had given the name
of Johnson and an address which had turned out later to be nonexistent.
He had stayed an hour or two. Then he had gone, promising to come back.
He had not done so.

Beyond the usual inquiry and report the police had not been interested
in the woman. Certainly no one had connected her with the case. But
according to hospital routine the contents of her pocketbook had been
listed at the office on arrival, before it was taken to her room. Among
them was a hunting knife wrapped in a clean handkerchief. It was not
until an alert young receptionist came on duty that afternoon that
anyone took particular note of the knife. She thought it was odd. She
went up to ask the nurse about it, and the knife was gone. She reported
it at the office, but nothing was done about it.

Then the nurse, interested by that time, came down to say that she had
found a slip of paper in an inner pocket of the woman’s bag. It was
folded very small, and on it were the words “Strathmore House, Linden
Avenue bus.” The receptionist had read the papers. She knew of the
search for the knife that had killed Isabel, and so she notified the
police.

“We got there too late,” Tony said gloomily. “The woman had just died.
And the man hasn’t turned up. But we got a full description of the knife
from the night clerk who listed it. He even said the handle was damp, as
if it had been in water. Now what’s the connection between this woman
and Isabel Shepard’s death? There has to be one.”

“I don’t know,” I said helplessly. “If I could find that picture—”

“The snapshot?” he asked. “Did you really make a search for it?”

So I told him about finding Don Scott in Isabel’s room and about hunting
everywhere for the picture.

“It had been left on the mantel?” he asked.

“So Anna said.”

“Then, if Scott saw it there and took it, why did he want it? And what
else was he looking for when you found him?”

“He said he was afraid she had kept some of his letters.”

“Nice boy, your old pal,” he observed. “Getting out from under, wasn’t
he? What’s scandalous about love letters seven or eight years old?”

He paid the check and leaned back scowling and silent for some time.
Then he got up abruptly.

“Why the hell didn’t you tell me this before?” he said. “Come on. We’re
going to the Lelands’. I want to talk to Andrew.”

He refused to explain, although I protested. After all Isabel had been
buried only that morning, and the family had a right to their decent
grief.

But to my surprise we were admitted to the house, and we found Andrew in
his dismal library, sitting alone. He had apparently not even been
reading. There was the dank smell of funeral flowers still in the room,
and only one lamp was lighted. He had aged perceptibly. He looked
stricken, and even Tony King saw it. He apologized.

“I’m sorry to disturb you, Mr. Leland,” he said. “But certain things
have come up. You ought to know them. My name is King. You know Miss
Shepard.”

He asked us to sit down. He didn’t like me, he never had; but he was
civil enough. It was to Tony King, however, that he spoke.

“What things? I’m afraid I don’t understand.”

“Your daughter’s death. The murder of a policeman. And the suicide of a
woman who jumped off a bridge last night.”

“I have no knowledge of any except the first two, Mr. King.”

“Are you certain of that? Suppose I describe this woman? She was small.
She had an aquiline nose and rather a receding chin. She was probably
forty, maybe less. Does that mean anything to you?”

“Nothing at all,” Mr. Leland said coldly. “I know of no such woman. If
this concerns my daughter’s death I still have not changed my opinion.
She was killed by her husband.”

But Tony King was relentless. He bent forward, his face set and intent.

“Why would Larry Shepard kill his wife, Mr. Leland? Because he learned
she had borne a child before he married her?”

The effect was more than shocking. Andrew Leland suddenly crumpled, as
if without his pride he was nothing; just a little elderly man who had
fought a long battle and lost it.

“For God’s sake, don’t tell her mother,” he said, with stiff lips. “It
would kill her.”

“It may not be necessary,” Tony said, more gently. “Is the child alive?”

“So far as I know, yes.”

“You haven’t seen it?”

“I never saw it,” he said fiercely. “But I wish to make this statement:
the boy was legitimate; my daughter had married the father and divorced
him.”

“The father was Donald Scott?”

He nodded. The room was going around me in circles, but they paid no
attention to me. The hardness was gone from Tony’s face. He drew a long
breath.

“I’m sorry to bring this up,” he said. “I know it is painful. Do you
know where the boy is now?”

“He was adopted by a family in the West. I suppose he is still there. At
least I still—”

“You are still paying them for keeping him?”

“I send them a little every month,” he said carefully. “What has all
this to do with my daughter’s death?”

“Just this. Unless your daughter left a will to the contrary, the boy is
her heir.”

He looked startled. Then he merely shrugged his shoulders.

“He was born under another name. The people who adopted him don’t know
who he is. I have never sent them checks. The money was sent
indirectly.”

“Nevertheless, by law he is her heir in this state,” Tony persisted.
“You are a lawyer. You know that, Mr. Leland. And those people may know
it too. Suppose they had discovered or always knew the child’s identity.
They have adopted him. They are his legal guardians and he will have a
considerable fortune on the mother’s death. That’s as good a motive as I
know for murder.”

“How could they have known it? Even the father didn’t know he had a
child. I took Isabel away as soon as she told me.”

He went on. It had been a most unsuitable marriage. He had traced them
and found them, and Isabel had come home willingly enough. It had been
an impulse, which she regretted. There had been a bad time with Scott,
but in the end he let her get a divorce in Reno. They managed to keep it
a secret. The boy was born later at a hospital in California.

Tony King listened attentively.

“What do you know about the people who adopted the boy?” he asked.
“Surely you had them investigated.”

“The doctor guaranteed them. I saw the woman myself. She—” he drew a
long breath—“she impressed me very favorably. A quiet self-respecting
sort. I never saw the husband.”

“And the name?”

“It was Armstrong, John P. Armstrong.”

Tony got up.

“I think we will find it was Mrs. Armstrong who jumped off a bridge here
last night. If you’ll give me the address in California, I can find out
tonight. She had a knife in her bag. You probably know what knife I
mean.”


                                  XIV

I don’t remember how we got out of the house. I know we left Mr. Leland
still sunk in his chair, and that I felt I had outraged every bit of
decency left in me. We had torn away his pride, laid bare the secret he
had fought so long to keep, and exposed poor Isabel’s tragic story. I
must have shown how I felt, for Tony took one look at me and shoved me
away from the wheel of my car.

“Pretty grim story,” he said. “It hurts, doesn’t it? I sort of gather
you’ve been crazy about Scott for a long time.”

I stared ahead. Had I ever really cared for Don? Or had I simply held on
to an adolescent dream?

“That’s over,” I said honestly. “I suppose really it was because there
was nobody else.”

“No candidates?” He raised his eyebrows.

“That’s not what I said. But Don never killed Isabel. Why should he?”

“Maybe not. But he’s in this up to his neck.”

At Police Headquarters he got out and gave me the wheel.

“I’ll discuss the matter of candidates with you later,” he said. “In the
meantime, for God’s sake relax. Big brother may be out before you know
it. And another thing.” He jerked his hat down over one eye. “Go home
and stay there. I may like you—and Mother, of course—but I also like
my little bed. I’d like at least one night in it.”

Well, he was right in one thing. Larry was released that same evening.
But Tony King did not get that night in bed. Nor did the rest of us.

I shall never forget Mother’s face when Larry came in. She put her arms
around him and held on to him, without speaking. He leaned over and
kissed the top of that dreadful henna-ed hair of hers, his eyes tender.

“Poor old girl,” he said. “It’s going to be all right, my dear. It’s
going to be all right.”

She let go of him suddenly.

“What do you mean, going to be? They’ve let you go, haven’t they?”

“They still don’t know who did it, Mother.”

“They know you didn’t,” she said valiantly.

She wouldn’t let him go, not even back to his house for the bath and
extra suit he wanted. She made him sit by the bed, holding tight to his
hand, and she rang for someone to go down to bring him what he needed.
However, most of the men were having their Sunday out, and in the end it
was Alma who volunteered to go. Larry protested, but it was no use. She
went to get a coat, and I stayed to hear his story.

What with ordering a tray supper for him, and finally telling my own
story of the woman in the hospital and the knife, the next hour passed
without our noticing it. The knife bewildered Larry. I had to begin with
Mother’s finding it under the stair carpet and go on from there. He
asked again about the plumber.

“How did he know it was there?”

“All he had to do was to look,” Mother said. “After all, the papers were
full of it.”

“So he took it away, gave it to this woman who returned it, and she gets
it out of the fountain and jumps into the river. Why?”

When Patrick came in for the tray, Larry asked him to send Sarah down.
Her gloomy face lightened when she saw him, although all she said was
that she was glad to see him back. It’s a queer thing but in a family of
women like ours it’s the man who gets all the adoration. But when he
asked Sarah about the tank, she blushed with embarrassment.

“There was something broken in it,” she said. “It—it wouldn’t flush.”

“How long had it been that way?”

“It was all right in the morning. Nellie, who does the bathrooms, told
me about it.”

“And who called the plumber?”

“I think it was Miss Alma. She usually does.”

Sarah, like Patrick, hadn’t noticed the plumber much. She had stayed in
Mother’s bedroom while he was there. She thought she had never seen him
before, but these days, with workmen a good deal more scarce than
diamonds, we took what we could get and were glad to get them. He was a
tall man, about forty or more, but he hadn’t taken off his cap. No, he
hadn’t mentioned finding the knife. He was there only about ten minutes.

After Sarah had gone, we began to wonder why Alma had not come back.
Then one of the women servants knocked at the door.

I opened it. She was leaning against it, and she almost fell into the
room. She was dressed in her street clothes, her hat awry and her face
chalk white.

“It’s Miss Alma,” she gasped. “She’s lying in the driveway with a knife
in her back.”

That was how Larry’s knife came back for the last time.

We couldn’t believe it. Why would anybody kill Alma? She was a part of
the family, and Mother at least had loved her. We could not believe it
even when we reached the drive and somebody turned on the lights. But it
was true. She was lying face down, with the things she had brought for
Larry scattered all around her.

We had a dreadful time with Mother at first, while the police were on
the way. She wouldn’t leave, and at last I sent for a fur coat for her,
and made her put it on. Then the police arrived, and it was the same
thing as Isabel’s death all over again: the same squad car, the same
homicide outfit roaring up later, and the same reporters, some still
trying to get over the fence after the gates were closed. Larry looked
fairly haunted. The servants were huddled around the front door. Flash
bulbs went off as photographs were taken, a car was driven up and its
headlights turned on the body.

There was hardly time to realize what had happened. The drive was jammed
with men with flashlights, men with cameras, men with pencils writing
busily on yellow paper, men inside using the telephone and men trying to
keep other men out. Once I thought of Tony King, but he disappeared in
the crowd.

The night was cold, and it seemed to me that they left Alma lying there
for hours.

We stayed until the body had been taken away, and Inspector Welles and
Larry went into the house. I didn’t like the look on the Inspector’s
face. I knew no alibi Mother and I could give Larry was worth anything.
For once there had been no servants to check who had left the house, and
there was something diabolic about the whole thing; that Larry had been
released, to have another murder within an hour or so of his homecoming.

Not that I was worrying about alibis just then. I was worrying about
Mother. She had followed Larry and the Inspector into the library, and
she had looked so stricken that I went into the dining room to get her
some brandy.

I was pouring it when there was a tap at the window. It startled me so I
nearly dropped the decanter. When I looked, I saw it was Tony. I raised
the window and he crawled in.

“Quick,” he said. “Can you get me to her rooms without anybody’s seeing
me?”

“Whose rooms?” I said stupidly.

“The Spencer woman’s. I want to get there before the mob gets in. Where
are they?”

“Look,” I said, “do you know why she was killed? If you do, tell me. I
think I’m slowly going crazy.”

“There’s usually a reason,” he said. “Do I go up or don’t I?”

He went up, of course. There was a small staircase leading almost
directly to Alma’s rooms, and nobody saw us. The lights were off, and he
drew the shades before he turned on the lamps in her bedroom and he
looked around. The room was as neat as Alma herself had been.

“Lived pretty comfortably, didn’t she?” he said.

“The sitting room was her office,” I told him. “She had plenty to do.”

“Liked her, did you? Nice woman and all that? How about your brother?
Fond of her?”

“I don’t think he really noticed whether she was around or not.
Certainly he didn’t kill her. He hadn’t left Mother’s room since he got
home. And I was with him, too.”

I told him all I knew, about Larry’s needing another suit and Alma’s
insisting on getting it. But he hardly listened. He was going over the
room, opening the closets, looking in the dresser drawers. It was her
office, however, to which he paid the most careful attention. It was as
orderly as the rest of the place: her typewriter covered on the table by
a window, a row of steel files in a corner, and the big desk in the
center of the room practically bare.

There was a fresh blotter on it, and something had been blotted on it
not long before. He took her hand mirror and tried to read it. The only
word that stood out clearly was “worrying”. He tore out the blotter and
rolling it up put it under his arm.

“Something bothering her,” he said. “Any idea why it was.”

“Not the slightest.”

“If she wrote it where is it?”

He began going over the room again, moving quietly for so big a man, but
there was no sign of what she had written. I stood it as long as I
could.

“Do you have to do all this?” I said, when he started for the files. “I
don’t think I can bear much more.”

He turned and looked at me. Then he came over quickly and put both hands
on my shoulders.

“Look, Judy,” he said. “There’s been another murder, and we have to get
after it fast. I don’t like your being here. It’s no place for you.” He
leaned down unexpectedly and kissed me. “Somebody ought to come along
pretty soon and marry you, to get you away.”

And tired and half-sick as I was, I tried to smile up at him.

“Is that a proposal?”

“God, no,” he said, looking shocked. “Whatever put that in your head?”

He went back to the search, and I wandered out to the hall. Behind me I
could hear drawers opening and shutting, and the metallic squeak of the
files as he drew them out and pushed them back. He was still busy when I
heard Mother’s voice below. I went to the gallery and looked down. There
was no sign of Larry, and Mother was raging at the Inspector.

“I assure you,” she was saying, “that if necessary I shall carry this
case to the Supreme Court. To say that my son—”

And the Inspector, exasperated but keeping his temper:

“My dear Mrs. Shepard, I have not said that your son did this thing. I
am not placing him under arrest. I would like to talk to him where we
are not disturbed. That’s all.”

“Talk to him? You’ve done nothing else for the last three days.”

He looked down at her, small as she was, defiant, and blazing with fury.
Evidently he decided she could take it.

“Suppose I ask you what I have already asked him,” he said. “Why did you
or your son give the mounted officer Barnes fifty dollars the night of
your party for the Mayor?”

Mother fairly squealed.

“Fifty dollars! Don’t be ridiculous. I didn’t give him anything. And
Larry hadn’t any money at all that night. He had forgotten to go to the
bank. I gave him ten dollars myself that afternoon.”

Some detectives came in just then and he sent them up to Alma’s rooms. I
warned Tony in time to escape, but although he looked rather smug he
told me nothing. He got out as he had come in. Astride the window sill
he said he would probably be at Headquarters all night, and when he saw
me again we could discuss my future. After which he simply disappeared,
and as no shouts followed I gathered that no one had seen him.

I felt rather blank after he had gone. Larry and the Inspector had
driven off, and Mother had gone to her room and locked the door.

I took the drink I had poured for Mother. It put some starch in my
knees, and I went out into the hall. One of the uniformed men was
standing by the fountain. He had a cup of coffee and a roll in his hand,
and he was dropping crumbs for the fish.

“They don’t know it’s night,” he said disconsolately. “Same as me. I’ve
forgotten what a good bed looks like.”

I don’t know why looking at the fish made me think of Donald Scott,
unless it was because one pop-eyed little black Japanese one was
fighting the others off and getting all the crumbs. Anyhow I did.

Tony King had said Don was in something or other up to the neck. I
wondered if Alma had known about the child. She had an uncanny way of
learning things. Suppose she was blackmailing him? She might have. She
liked money, and no man would want it known that after a week or so of
marriage his wife had divorced him. But it wasn’t Don who had taken the
knife from the hospital that morning. It had been a thin shabby-looking
man.

I was getting excited by that time, what with the brandy and sheer
nervous exhaustion. The policeman had tired of feeding the fish. He
wandered off and stood looking out at the men still working in the
grounds. And once again I heard Don’s voice, asking me about the tassel
on the chain they had found under Isabel’s body.

I was sure I knew about that now. Isabel had given up her baby, but not
entirely. She had slipped the chain around its neck, and on the chain
she had hung one of the tassels from her bed jacket. It had to be that
way. She had even marked a cross on it with ink. She might have hoped to
claim the boy some day. She might only have been protecting herself
against having another child substituted for her own. But that was what
she had done.

I went up to bed finally, so tired that I was staggering. Mother’s light
was out, and I didn’t go in. Down the hall the police had locked and
sealed Alma’s rooms for further examination. My bedside clock said three
when I went in, and I sat down on the bed, too exhausted even to
undress.

That was the state I was in when I saw the note on my dressing table. It
was in Alma’s neat handwriting, and she had evidently left it before she
had started down for Larry’s clothes. “Dear Judy,” it said, “My
conscience is worrying me about the car I saw the other night. Can you
come in later and discuss it?”

I sat there, turning it over in my hands. So Alma had intended trying a
spot of blackmail on me after all. And the police had the blotter, with
that message on it.


                                   XV

I sat up in bed for hours, smoking endless cigarettes. At four in the
morning I picked up the telephone and called Tony King. He was there,
but the operator said he was using the long-distance phone. I tried at
intervals for an hour. Then at last I gave up and went unexpectedly to
sleep.

I wakened at nine, dressed in a hurry and drank a cup of coffee. The
maid who brought my tray said Larry had not come home, and that Mother
had dressed and gone downtown without even calling Sarah. I knew
something had happened, but no one knew what it was. I was still in a
state of helpless anxiety when I got my car and drove to Headquarters.

Mother was sitting in the waiting room outside the Inspector’s office.
She was in what Sarah would have called a state, her hat crooked and
unmatched shoes on her feet.

“Why, Mother!” I said. “What on earth—”

“I’ve come to take Larry home,” she said. “I don’t budge from this spot
until those”—here she used a most impolite word—“until those ——s let
him go.”

The weary-looking officer at the desk looked up.

“I’ve told you, madam. He is not in there.”

“I don’t believe it.”

She got up suddenly and opened the door to the inner office. There was
no sign of Larry, but Donald Scott was there; a Don I had never seen,
his face unshaven, his eyes sunken in his head. He didn’t apparently
notice that we were there.

“That’s the truth, so help me God,” he was saying. “I couldn’t help her,
but I never killed her. Or Alma Spencer either.”

His voice broke, and Mother hastily closed the door.

“They’re crazy,” she said. “They’re all crazy. As if he would murder the
mother of his own child.”

I suppose my jaw dropped, for she told me impatiently to close my mouth.
But she had apparently abandoned her idea of rescuing Larry. She trotted
down the stairs, her two odd shoes making clacking noises and her hat
more crooked than ever. When I caught up with her, she was talking to
herself. I took her arm and stopped her.

“Don’t babble,” I said. “How long have you known about Isabel’s baby?”

“Since before Larry married her, of course.”

I got the story from her on the way home. She let me take her in my car,
sending her own away. As she had no confidence whatever in me as a
driver I think this shows her state of mind. She was lucid enough,
however.

She sat beside me in the car, that wild red hair of hers blowing in all
directions, and told me the story.

You have to hand it to the Lelands of this world after all. When Larry
wanted to marry Isabel, Andrew Leland had come to Strathmore House; come
stiffly, I gathered, in morning coat and striped trousers, but with two
small spots of color on his cheeks. He had lost no time, either. He had
not even sat down. He had stood—still stiffly—in front of the
fireplace and said:

“I understand your boy wants to marry my girl.”

“And why not?” said Mother.

“That’s what I came to talk about.”

He told her the whole story. Isabel was determined not to tell Larry.
She had threatened to kill herself if the affair came out. On the other
hand, in fairness to everybody . . . I suppose Mother surprised him
then.

“Listen to me, Andrew Leland,” she said. “It’s you who are ashamed of
Isabel. I’m not.” And she had added maliciously: “There are some
advantages of coming from below the tracks even a generation or two ago.
Keep your mouth shut and let them alone.”

It was settled between them finally. I believe he even condescended to
take a glass of sherry before he left. But he would not let Isabel have
a church wedding, or even a veil. The veil, he said gravely, was
symbolic, and Isabel was no longer a virgin. Which was why, it appeared,
I had cried all night when I learned that Larry was going to be married,
and there were to be no bridesmaids. It’s a queer conventional world the
Lelands and their kind make for themselves and others.

I got Mother home safely and persuaded her to go to bed. And that is the
way things stood with us at ten o’clock on Monday morning. Isabel had
been killed on Thursday night and Barnes early on Friday morning. Alma
had been stabbed Sunday night. Donald Scott was probably still being
interrogated, and we heard nothing whatever from Larry.

Sarah disappeared at noon that day. The police had unlocked Alma’s
rooms, and I had been helping her go through Alma’s things. We had no
idea what to do with them. She had a stepbrother somewhere, but I could
not find his name or address anywhere.

We were still working when one of the men came to say Sarah was wanted
on the telephone, and she went and didn’t come back. I waited a half
hour. Then I tried to find her, but all I learned was that she had put
on her hat and coat and simply walked out. In thirty years with Mother
she had never done such a thing, and Mother was furious.

“She must have lost her mind,” she snapped. “Not a word to me! What does
the old fool mean by such a thing?”

She was still in a bad temper when just after lunch—and still no
Sarah—a message came from Headquarters. It was quite polite. Would
Mother and I come to Inspector Welles’ office at three o’clock? I said
with equal politeness that we would, and hung up, feeling that it had
sounded like an invitation to tea. But I didn’t trust them, nor did
Mother when I told her. But she agreed to go. She apparently intended to
make up for her morning appearance, for warm as it was she put on her
mink coat and all her pearls, and she walked into the Inspector’s office
like a combination of the Queen of Sheba and a woman who has just had a
severe chill.

There were a number of people in the office. Andrew Leland got up when
we entered. So did Don. And Larry came over and kissed Mother. Tony King
nodded from the telephone. He looked as though he had been up all night
again, but he smiled at me.

I could not take my eyes from the Inspector’s desk. There was a queer
collection on it: the shabby felt hat, Larry’s new opera one, none the
better for its hours in the tree, a woman’s worn pocketbook, a slug from
a gun and some magnified photographs of it, the platinum chain and
tassel found under Isabel’s body when she was killed, and the blotter
Tony had taken away from Alma’s desk.

The knife was there too, its reindeer handle looking more moth-eaten
than ever. I looked away quickly, and Mother went pale under her
make-up.

There was a silence in the room. Tony put down the receiver and looked
at the Inspector.

“Check,” he said.

The Inspector nodded. He looked grave. He picked up the chain and looked
at it, but it was a minute or two before he spoke.

“I have asked you all to come here,” he said slowly, “because you are
all vitally concerned. This has been a curious case, in that one or two
of the people most concerned in it have hardly appeared at all. It also
involves baring certain hitherto concealed facts. I regret that this is
necessary, but as you all know them . . .”

He put down the chain.

“From the first,” he said, “we had only one or two clues. We had this
chain, we had a man’s old felt hat, and we had the curious episode of
Barnes, one of our own force, denying that he had seen the woman Anna
Griffin who claimed to have spoken to him.

“I am going to read you the statement made by Barnes’s wife as to that
night.”

He picked up a paper and put on his glasses.

“Jim came home Thursday night after he had put up his horse at the
police stable. It was about midnight. He did not act like himself. He
said he had a headache and took some aspirin. Then he said he had a
surprise for me. He reached in his pocket and took out fifty dollars,
two twenties and a ten. ‘Go and buy yourself something pretty. That’s
the way the rich do things.’ I couldn’t believe it. Now and then he gets
five or ten dollars for work like that when he’s assigned to it, but
never fifty.

“I was a little worried. I asked him if it was clean money. He looked
funny but he said it was.

“He went to bed, but I don’t think he slept much. I wakened up when the
bell rang. He leaned out the window and some one said there was trouble
at the Shepard place, and to come along. He acted queer about that, too.
He told me not to mention the money. Then he dressed in a hurry and went
out. There was a car waiting for him.

“He came back an hour or two later. He looked terribly worried. He said
young Mrs. Shepard had been killed. Someone had stabbed her. But he did
not know anything about it. Only he did not go back to bed. He stayed
downstairs walking the floor. I did not understand it. Then before
daylight I heard another car stop, and Jim went outside.

“I heard him go out to the car and it drove off. That is all I know.
Only he has not been back since, and I am almost crazy.”

He put down the paper.

“Now there are several curious things about that story,” he said.
“Barnes gets fifty dollars for an ordinary routine job. That’s a lot of
money for a police officer. But we knew Barnes. He wouldn’t have been
easy to bribe. If he had, and a murder was committed . . .

“Let that go. He had a headache and he asked for aspirin, and later
after we had questioned him and he went home he was called out to a car
and taken away. That, coupled with his confusion when we sent for him
that night and his denial that the maid Anna Griffin had spoken to him,
pointed to several things. Either he had not seen the Griffin woman, or
he was lying for some reason of his own.

“I think we know now that he was lying, and why. When he was found he
had been shot. But there was also a bruise on his head. It had been
there long enough before his death to be swollen and discolored.

“That—in spite of a statement I shall read to the contrary—pointed to
one thing. Barnes had been attacked and knocked unconscious before or
during Mrs. Shepard’s murder. He wouldn’t admit it. No police officer
likes to admit a thing like that. And he never had another chance to
admit it. He was kidnaped a few hours later, probably at the point of a
gun. Kidnaped and shot.

“We don’t like things of that sort happening to our men.”

He paused. There was not a stir in the room. Tony King was listening
intently. Larry looked uncomfortable. Don seemed puzzled, and Andrew
Leland had not moved.

“Now we have to remember the circumstances at the Shepard place that
night,” the Inspector went on. “Nobody could get in who didn’t show a
card, both at the gate and at the door. The rear service gates were
padlocked and watched. Even the house doors, with Barnes guarding the
main entrance. Then why was Barnes knocked out? We felt it was because
someone had to get either in or out of the house—or both—without being
seen.”

He gave a thin smile.

“That is why we held Mr. Shepard,” he said. “He has however a completely
clean slate.”

I think Mother drew her first full breath in days, and he looked at her.

“We had some excuse, of course,” he said. “The issue was confused by
Mrs. Shepard, who found the knife and hid it. I am sure she meant well,
but—”

“You found it,” Mother said grimly. “You sent that plumber, didn’t you?”

“I’m sorry to say we didn’t find it, Mrs. Shepard. That is part of what
I am going to tell. I may say before I begin that fine work on the part
of Captain King has helped us greatly; he deserves great credit,
especially as he is still recovering from a wound received in Africa.”

I suppose I jumped. I know I looked furiously at Tony. He didn’t give me
a glance, however. He merely started ruffling through some papers in
front of him, and it was the Inspector who smiled at me.

“It was Captain King,” he went on blandly, “who first drew our attention
to the statement in the autopsy that Mrs. Shepard had borne a child. He
learned that Mr. Shepard was not—had not been—a father, and he found a
significance in the chain which we had missed. He was also aware of
certain movements of the knife which for reasons of his own he kept to
himself for some time.

“This case, as most of you now know, began with the elopement and
marriage of Isabel Leland to Donald Scott. For reasons I need not go
into, the marriage was ended by a secret divorce within a short time. It
was not until after the divorce that Isabel Scott realized that she was
to have a child.

“She did not tell her mother. She went to her father, and he took her to
California. The boy was born in a hospital there, and ten days later was
handed over to a childless couple. The baby’s mother resented this. She
wanted the child, but her father opposed the idea. What she did was to
put this small chain around the baby’s neck, and to mark with ink an
ornament from something she was wearing—possibly a bedjacket—so that
in the future she might at least identify him.

“Her own identity had been carefully shielded. She was there under
another name. But the unexpected happened. Someone in the hospital, a
patient recovering from an appendicitis operation, had seen her door
open and had recognized her. Isabel Scott, as she was at that time, did
not know this; but it was not hard for the patient to learn why she was
there—or that the whole affair was being kept secret.

“What was learned also was that the doctor on the case was looking for a
respectable family to take the child. Such a family was brought forward.
The name was Armstrong and two or three years later, with the consent of
Mr. Leland and the mother, who had since married Lawrence Shepard,
adoption papers were taken out. The boy took the name of Armstrong, that
of his foster parents, but he remained his mother’s legal heir, and
there was a considerable fortune involved.

“All this time the Armstrongs remained in the West, with Mr. Leland
still paying a monthly sum for the child. Then something happened. Mrs.
Shepard’s second marriage had produced no children. She began to want
her son. She talked to her husband about adopting a boy, and at the same
time she heard from the Armstrongs. They were willing to give up the
child, but for a large cash payment—fifty thousand dollars. With her
estate in trust and her father completely opposed to any such action,
she was pretty desperate. She had never told Donald Scott that he was a
father. Now she thought of him. He had risen fast. He had made
considerable money. She wrote him the facts, and she enclosed a snapshot
of the Armstrong woman taken in California, with the boy one of a group
of children.

“But he called her up and told her he couldn’t help—not to that extent
anyhow. He had lived well. He hadn’t saved a great deal. He sent the
photograph back, asking her to destroy it.

“Then the Armstrongs came East with the boy, whose first name is Scott,
by the way. Mrs. Shepard had some meetings with Armstrong in the park.
Her chauffeur has identified him. She also saw her son at least once. He
is an attractive child and she became more anxious than ever.

“However, the Armstrongs still held out for their fifty thousand. They
even threatened to raise the ante. She explained her situation to them;
she had only her income, no capital, but the boy Scott would have her
entire estate on her death. That was her mistake. A terrible one, for
now she was more valuable dead than alive.”

I looked at Mother. Her poor chin was quivering. She could understand
that pitiful story of Isabel’s, wanting her son, begging for him, seeing
him and loving him, and then never getting him. Larry got out his
handkerchief and blew his nose.

The Inspector went on.

“I must say here that Mrs. Armstrong was not a party to much that
happened. She was willing to give up the boy if it meant a better life
for him. Otherwise she refused to co-operate.”

He looked at Andrew Leland, sitting with his head bowed.

“I’m sorry, Mr. Leland. I shall have to go into some details here. If
you care to leave . . . ?”

“Go ahead,” Andrew said quietly.

“In a sense,” the Inspector resumed, “Mrs. Shepard’s death goes back to
this hat here. It belongs to Armstrong, who was the drunken waiter who
was ejected before the dinner that night. He has identified it himself.

“His drunkenness was an act. He was sober enough when he left. Perhaps
I’d better read you his testimony. I shall read it as it was given. You
will notice that he has refused to answer certain questions.”

He took up several sheets of paper fastened by a clip and put on his
glasses again. “It is in the form of question and answer, but I think it
is clear.” He began to read:

    _Question_: What did you do when you were put out of the house?

    _Answer_: I was only playing drunk. One of the policemen at the
    back door took me a few yards. Then he let me go.

    _Q._ And after that?

    _A._ Well, I was in the evening clothes I had rented, and I had
    somebody’s top hat from the men’s room. I went to the officer on
    the horse and told him I’d give him fifty dollars to let me ride
    his horse around the place for a while. I suppose he thought I
    was a guest, and tight at that. He considered it a minute. Then
    he got off his horse. He said fifty dollars was worth a ride in
    any man’s money. I didn’t get on the horse. Not then anyhow. I
    hit him on the head with a rock I’d picked up. Not too hard.
    Just enough to put him to sleep.

    _Q._ What did you do with him?

    _A._ I dragged him away from the drive. It was pretty dark. I
    put on his cap and coat. Then I heard the woman coming—Anna
    Griffin is her name, I think. So I got on the horse and when she
    spoke I answered.

    _Q._ Why was it necessary to knock out Barnes?

    _A._ Well, the place was full of cops, and we had business that
    night.

    _Q._ What sort of business? To kill Mrs. Shepard?

    _A._ I told you we never killed her.

    _Q._ Then why did you attack Barnes?

The Inspector looked up.

“I shall skip the next few questions and answers. We felt he was lying.
He mumbled something about Mrs. Shepard’s being prepared to pay over the
money that night, in exchange for an agreement to let her adopt the boy.
But there was no money in the house when she was found. Barnes was a
danger, of course, if murder was contemplated. Armstrong, however, has
persisted that murder was never part of the plan.” Then he read:

    _Q._ You say “we.” Do you mean yourself and your wife?

    _A._ My wife wasn’t in it. Leave her out. She wasn’t near the
    place that night.

    _Q._ Then you did it yourself. You knocked Barnes out and then
    killed Mrs. Shepard.

    _A._ I never put a foot inside the house. That’s the truth,
    before God.

He put down the papers.

“He collapsed at that point,” he said quietly. “We got the rest of his
testimony later. I think I should explain our own situation, as it was
until the death of Alma Spencer last night.

“You must remember that at this time none of us had ever heard of the
Armstrongs. The autopsy had told us Mrs. Shepard had borne a child. King
learned that she had not had a child by her present husband. He
remembered the chauffeur’s story of her meeting a man in the park. And
when Mrs. Armstrong was murdered by being thrown from a bridge, her bag
was thrown with her. It contained not only Mr. Shepard’s knife; there
was also a small piece of paper in it with the words ‘Strathmore House.
Linden Avenue bus.’ That connected her definitely with the case.”

“I thought she committed suicide,” I said, in a thin voice. “Do you mean
her husband killed her?”

“No,” he said gravely. “He did not kill her, Miss Shepard.”


                                  XVI

There was a rather prolonged silence after that. The King man lit a
cigarette and smiled at me. His broken tooth had not been repaired.

The Inspector picked up the knife from his desk.

“There has been a determined effort all along to pin his wife’s death on
Mr. Shepard,” he said. “This knife was left where we would be sure to
find it, under the stair carpet. When Jim Barnes was killed, it was with
Mr. Shepard’s automatic, and in his automobile. Even the opera hat,
which Armstrong got rid of after he had used it to deceive Barnes,
belonged to Mr. Shepard.

“But to get back to the knife, which has wandered all through these
tragedies. Yesterday here in this office Miss Judith Shepard told how
her mother had taken it and where it had been hidden. She told us
something else, however. She said that the tank in Mrs. Shepard’s
bathroom had gone out of order while they were at the inquest, and that
a policeman, pretending to be a plumber, had taken the knife away.

“Now we use indirect methods of that sort now and then, but we had sent
no plumber to Strathmore House. It looked like another effort to produce
the knife and thus close our case against Lawrence Shepard. Here’s what
Armstrong says.” He read:

    _Question_: Did you get the knife from Mrs. Shepard’s bathroom?

    _Answer_: Yes.

    _Q._ How did you know it was there?

    No answer.

    _Q._ Why did your wife take it back?

    _A._ She wasn’t standing for putting the blame on Mr. Shepard.
    She talked and talked, so I gave it to her. She left it at
    Strathmore House.

    _Q._ How did she get it back after that? She had it in her bag
    when she fell. You know that, don’t you?

    _A._ (After a pause) I don’t know how she got it again. I took
    the boy for a walk that night. When I came back, she was gone. I
    never saw her again until I found her in the hospital.

He took off his glasses and looked at me.

“Where had you put it, Miss Shepard?” he said. “Have you any idea how it
got back to Mrs. Armstrong’s bag?”

I shook my head.

“I don’t see how she found it,” I said. “She came back to see me that
night, but I was out. She may have seen it, of course. She was in the
hall alone for some time.”

“You had hidden it in the hall?”

“It was in the fish pool,” I said, and felt myself flushing.

He nodded without speaking, and picked up his papers again.

“However Mrs. Armstrong got it,” he said, “she had it in her bag
Saturday night when she was killed. The bag was found in the barge when
she fell. It went to the hospital with her, and the knife was still in
the bag when Armstrong, after waiting for her all night, read what had
happened in the morning paper.

“I don’t think he knew she had the knife. He probably opened the bag and
found it there. He was in bad shape, anyhow. He either grew faint or
pretended to. Certainly he got it while the nurse was out of the room
getting some aromatic ammonia for him. Now let’s get back to our own
side of the case.

“By that time, as late as yesterday morning, we knew only certain
things. We knew through Mr. Leland that Mrs. Shepard had borne a
legitimate child, which had been adopted in Los Angeles by a family
named Armstrong. We knew Donald Scott was the father of the child. And
we knew that a woman who had refused to give her name in the hospital
had died, apparently a suicide. There was nothing to connect her with
the case, or to indicate that she had not tried to kill herself.

“At the same time Mr. Leland was convinced that Lawrence Shepard had
killed his wife in a fit of jealousy after he had discovered her past.
The murder of Barnes was still unsolved, and the identity of the woman
who had jumped off the bridge was still unknown to us.

“Then we got a break at last. A clerk at the hospital reported finding a
slip with the words ‘Strathmore House. Linden Avenue bus’ in the woman’s
bag, and also discovered that the knife, which was on the list of its
contents, had disappeared.

“We set out to locate Armstrong. He was using another name, but it was
fairly easy, with the woman missing and a six-year-old boy around. We
finally located them at a boardinghouse in a respectable part of town,
but Armstrong himself was missing. He never went back to the hospital.”

He stopped and drew a long breath.

“Last night Alma Spencer was stabbed,” he said. “That made four murders.
It looked pretty bad. We didn’t locate Armstrong immediately, but we
decided this morning to bring Mr. Scott here for questioning.” He looked
at Don. “I’m sorry, Mr. Scott. I’ll have to go into this.”

Don said nothing, and he went on.

“We kept him here for some time. He admitted his marriage. He admitted
that Isabel Shepard had appealed to him for money to help get their
child back. But he denied everything else. And by that time we had
picked up Armstrong himself. He was attempting to leave town.”

He looked at Mother.

“He had been identified as the plumber who repaired your bathroom. He
knew the knife was there. Now that was a curious thing. Who knew it was
in the tank in Mrs. Shepard’s bathroom? For someone did know, either an
occupant of the house or someone who had free access to it. We had
interrogated the servants at various times, without result.

“However, to go back to Armstrong. This is what developed at his second
interrogation. I need not say, of course, that the felt hat left at
Strathmore House was his.” He read again.

    _Question_: What do you know about Alma Spencer’s death?

    _Answer_: Nothing.

    _Q._ Where were you last night?

    _A._ Just walking around the streets. My wife had been murdered.
    What do you think I’d do? Go to a movie?

    _Q._ You say your wife was murdered. What do you mean by that?

    _A._ She was. She’d never kill herself. She was crazy about the
    boy.

    _Q._ Who would kill her?

    No answer.

    _Q._ Why do you think she was killed?

    No answer.

    _Q._ All right. How do you think it happened?

    _A._ She wasn’t very big. Anybody could have lifted her over
    that railing and thrown the bag after her. The knife was in it.
    Or maybe she climbed up to throw the bag into the river, and
    somebody gave her a shove.

    _Q._ Who would do a thing like that?

    No answer.

    _Q._ How did she get the knife again?

    _A._ I’m not talking.

    _Q._ Why did you kill Barnes?

    _A._ I never killed him. I didn’t know he was going to be
    killed.

    _Q._ But you helped to dispose of the body?

    No answer.

    _Q._ Who did kill him, Armstrong? You’d better begin to talk.

    _A._ I’ve nothing to say. I didn’t shoot him. I don’t own a gun.

    _Q._ You were fond of your wife, weren’t you?

    _A._ She was the best ever.

    _Q._ Did she stab Isabel Shepard?

    _A._ Who? My wife? Good God, no.

The inspector looked up. “He broke down at that point,” he said. “It was
some time before he was ready to talk again. And as I say we already had
an idea of the truth through Captain King. I’ll ask the captain to tell
you about that.”

Tony looked surprised. He threw away his cigarette and walked over to
the desk.

“Well,” he said rather shyly for him. “I suppose you might say that my
interest in this case started when I heard how Mr. Lawrence Shepard and
his wife were married. There was no big wedding. There was no veil, no
orchids, no white satin bride’s dress. I simply tucked it away in my
mind and forgot it. Later on I remembered it and what it might mean; a
second marriage, not a first.

“I felt all along that a woman was the murderer, the way Mrs. Shepard
was dressed when she was found—or wasn’t dressed. Only two or three
women were apparently involved, except for the servants, so I had to
consider Mrs. Shepard and her daughter. But the Mayor was certain Mrs.
Shepard had been with him until he left. That left the daughter,
Judith.”

He glanced at me and looked away. I suppose my face must have been
something.

“Somebody had done away with the knife, and it looked as though Mrs.
Shepard had taken it from under the stair carpet. She sat there almost
all night, and I had a bit of the carpet examined. I needn’t go into
that. The knife had been left there.”

“Then, Friday night, I found Judith Shepard trying to bury the knife. I
got a flashlight picture of her. But she’s a good runner. She escaped
with the knife.”

Larry half rose from his chair.

“Are you trying to say that my sister had anything to do with my wife’s
death?” he demanded.

Tony shook his head.

“She and your mother were trying to protect you, Mr. Shepard,” he said.
“They had a fool idea that it would send you to the chair. It might
have, at that.”

He paused and looked in Mother’s direction. Mother was practically
purple.

“However, I had to let Judith Shepard out. There was no motive, and I
checked with the men she ate and danced with that night. She apparently
hadn’t left the house.

“There was still no motive up to Saturday afternoon, when I saw Mr.
Leland. The autopsy had revealed Isabel Shepard had borne a child, and
Mr. Leland said the child was legitimate. That might have been a motive.
She had inherited a trust fund and the boy was her legal heir, adopted
or not. At least we began to work from there.

“The Los Angeles police reported that the family who had adopted the
child had left the city a month ago. We began looking for them. But one
thing puzzled us. According to Mr. Leland they had not known the
identity of the mother.

“I got the name of the hospital where the child had been born. It was an
institution for women only. It was possible that someone, either a
patient or an attendant, had seen Mrs. Shepard—Mrs. Scott—there. I
learned the date of the birth, and had the lists checked.

“I got it a few minutes ago.” He looked at the inspector. “Take it away,
sir,” he said. “Your turn.”

He sat down, looking rather smug, and lit a cigarette. Nobody had moved.
The Inspector cleared his throat and picked up his papers again. Then he
glanced at Mother.

“I’m sorry, Mrs. Shepard,” he said. “This may be a shock to you. As
Captain King has said, the list of the people in the hospital came
through only a short time ago. We knew the facts before, but we
recognized one of the names.” He put on his glasses. “I shall skip part
of the second interrogation of John Armstrong. He was in bad shape, and
much was purely evasion.” He began to read.

    _Question_: Why did you kill Alma Spencer?

    _Answer_: Who says I killed her?

    _Q._ I do. You took the knife from your wife’s bag at the
    hospital and stabbed her with it. Don’t deny it. We know it.

    “There was a long silence here,” said the Inspector, looking up.
    “He seemed to be thinking things over.”

    _Question_: Why did you kill her?

    _Answer_: All right, I did. I did it because she killed my wife.

    _Q._ What do you mean by that?

    _A._ She threw or pushed her off the bridge. She knew too much.

    _Q._ What did your wife know?

    _A._ She knew that Alma had stabbed Mrs. Shepard and shot the
    policeman. She was afraid he would remember me. But I swear to
    God I didn’t know she was going to kill anybody that night.

    _Q._ How did the Spencer woman become involved in all this?

    _A._ She knew about the boy. She’d been in the hospital as a
    patient when he was born. She fixed it for us to adopt him.

    _Q._ You knew her at that time?

    _A._ Knew her! I’ll say I did. She was my stepsister.


                                  XVII

Tony King drove me home after it was over. He stopped the car once and
took me into a bar for some brandy. I guess I needed it. But he didn’t
talk and I couldn’t. You can’t live for years with a woman and then
learn without shock that she has killed three people. I was still
confused, too. I had seen the Armstrong man only once. That was when he
dropped the tray of cocktails the night of the party; a thin
mild-looking man giving a good imitation of having had too much to
drink, but not vicious. Never vicious.

“What will they do to him?” I asked in a small voice.

“Probably only manslaughter. She killed his wife, remember. He’ll get a
parole eventually.”

“I don’t seem to understand it all yet, Tony,” I said. “What about the
knife? It kept moving all over the place.”

“Listen, dimwit,” he said. “What about Alma Spencer? You can bet she was
moving all over the place, too. She’d left it for the police to find.
Mother spoiled that, so Alma looks about and finds it in the tank. She’s
too smart to take it. She sends for her stepbrother to come as a
plumber, and he nabs it. All clear?”

I nodded.

“But things don’t work out so well. Stepsister-in-law isn’t having any.
She brings it back, all nicely tied up in paper. And what do you do? You
have the bright idea of burying it again. Only somebody catches you out.
You drop it in the pool, and Alma sees you from that Romeo and Juliet
balcony of yours and fishes it out.

“She’s getting pretty nervous, however. She doesn’t want the damned
thing. That night she plays Juliet again and sees stepsister-in-law has
come back. That looks like trouble, but you’re not there.
Stepsister-in-law leaves and Alma meets her outside the house. She says:
‘Come along. You did a silly thing to bring it back, but let’s take a
bus to the river and drop it in.’ Only she dumped stepsister-in-law in
with it.”

“You think it’s funny, don’t you?” I said resentfully. “It isn’t, you
know. I saw them that night. I thought it was two of the maids.”

He dropped his light manners immediately.

“No,” he said soberly. “No, it isn’t funny, Judy. Only this is no place
for you to have the screaming meemies, and that’s what you were headed
for.”

He told me a little more on the way home; that Alma had called her
stepbrother toward morning after Isabel’s death and asked him to meet
her near the Barnes house. She said they would have to talk to Barnes.
The stepbrother didn’t want to go. He said Barnes had the fifty dollars,
and he wasn’t likely to talk. Especially he wasn’t going to admit he’d
been knocked out on duty by a man half his size. But she insisted, and
he met her.

She had Larry’s car. She told Barnes he was wanted back at the scene of
the murder, and that she had been sent to get him. He said Barnes was
scared. He didn’t recognize Armstrong, in the back of the car. But the
last thing Armstrong expected was to have her shoot him in the head
before they reached our gates. Armstrong was frantic, but he says she
was still cool. They drove on out a few miles, and he helped her to
carry Barnes to where he was found. They tried to clean the car, too.
There was a creek near-by. But they didn’t make much of a job of it.

“And you suspected me,” I said when he had finished.

“Well, think about it,” he said. “What did I know about you? What do I
know about any of you economic royalists? I’m only a soldier. When I
found you were only a pampered child of the rich, who could run like
blazes, I changed my mind.”

“That was another dirty trick,” I said violently. “You hadn’t any
business in civilian clothes, posing as a photographer. I don’t think
it’s even allowed. And if you think I’m impressed by all this
play-acting . . .”

He grinned at me, broken tooth and all.

“What was I to do? Go around in a uniform chasing down clues? I’d have
been a pretty sight, wouldn’t I? Not that I’m not a pretty sight in it.
You ought to see me. I’m something.”

“It might help,” I admitted.

He laughed out loud.

“I’ll show you some day,” he boasted. “Incidentally, I didn’t try to
fool you. Welles is my uncle. I’m staying with him until I go back.”

“Back? To the war?”

“What do you think?”

And with that and the shock of the last few days and what not, I simply
burst into tears and put my head on his shoulder. As I had on Don’s
once, and on old Patrick’s. Only this didn’t go down so well. He gave a
yelp and jerked away.

“Hey!” he said. “Keep off, will you? I’ve had a dirty Nazi’s bullet in
there. It’s no pillow.”

Which of course didn’t help any. I sat there with the tears rolling down
my face, thinking about Alma and his going back to war and what on earth
had happened to Sarah and how soon I could get a war job until he
finally stopped the car.

“Look here, haven’t you got a handkerchief?” he said. “And stop wailing.
You’d make a hell of a soldier’s wife.”

“Who said anything about my being a soldier’s wife?” I said indignantly.

“It was just an idea. Forget it,” he said, and let it go at that. I
could have slapped him.

He wouldn’t come in when we got home. He looked at the house and said it
gave him the pip, as usual. And I was angry enough at last to tell him
the truth.

“Why don’t you read the papers now and then?” I inquired stiffly.
“Mother offered this place to the Government as a convalescent home for
soldiers six months ago. They’re taking it over next month.”

He actually looked embarrassed, but he was still flippant.

“My apologies,” he said. “Give her a great big kiss from me, won’t you?”

“And I’m getting a war job,” I went on. “And Larry’s going into the
Navy. We’re not such a bad lot after all, are we?”

“You break my heart,” he said, and showed that broken tooth of his
again. “First you get it and then you break it. Well, that’s life.”

He drove off, leaving me standing there.

I stopped inside the front door. Mother was there, and Sarah; and
chasing the fish around in the pool was a six-year-old boy. He was wet,
the floor was sopping, and in the background Patrick was beaming and
holding a mop.

Mother hardly noticed me. “The police sent for Sarah to look after him,”
she said. “Isn’t he a pet?”

Well, he was, but as he chose that moment to fall in the pool, to be
hauled out dripping, I hadn’t much chance at him. I knew he was a
godsend to Mother, however. Already Alma was water over the dam, so to
speak.

They bathed him and put him to bed, finally, quarreling bitterly over
how many covers he needed and how high to raise the window. And that
night after dinner Captain King arrived.

He was terrific. There were all sorts of insignia on his uniform,
including a decoration the President had pinned on him, and Patrick
looked stunned as he admitted him. The last time he had seen him he had
been playing with the fish in the pool, in a suit that looked as though
it had been slept in.

I blinked.

“Couldn’t you have done it a little at a time?” I said. “Say the
trousers first, and so on? It’s rather overwhelming.”

“That’s the idea,” he observed complacently. “Overwhelm them. That’s my
motto.”

But he was sober enough when he sat down. He looked around the library,
and not through the open door to the hall, with its tapestries, its
marble and fountain, and the gallery above.

“I hope the poor devils who come here to get well can take it,” he said.
“It’s a grand idea and I’m for it. But has it ever occurred to you what
the effect is on the people employed in a place like yours? It does
something to people. It does something to me. And it did something to
Alma Spencer. You’ve got to remember that, Judy.”

“Are you asking me to be sorry for her?”

“Not exactly. But consider this: It was all right at first. She saw a
chance to get some support for her stepbrother and his wife, and when
she learned the baby was open for adoption she had the Armstrongs apply.
But I’m guessing that she wasn’t thinking of murder then. It took her a
long time to come to that. Fifty thousand, divided between herself and
the Armstrongs, looked like a fortune to her.

“Then—probably from Isabel herself—she learned that her fortune was in
trust. Two million dollars, to go to the boy if she had no other
children. And a long time before he would come of age to claim it. If
Isabel died, of course.

“So she brought the Armstrongs East, and Isabel saw the boy and wanted
him desperately. Alma hadn’t counted on that.

“She had to work fast. Suppose Isabel told her husband and he agreed to
put up the money? What was fifty thousand compared to the control of two
million until the child came of age? Remember, Alma liked money. She
craved it. She’d seen it spent like water here for years. Maybe she
wasn’t quite sane.

“She chose the night of the party, but the party almost defeated her.
She had to get out of the house, and the doors were guarded. At the last
minute she got her stepbrother here as a waiter.

“She told him what to do, to play drunk and knock out Barnes. He says he
didn’t want to do it. He was afraid. But even then he still believed she
was only to collect the fifty thousand.

“Anyhow, with Barnes unconscious and out of sight, the rest was easy.
Nobody could say she had left the party at all. She took down the chain
and tassel which Isabel had insisted on as the final identification of
her son, and she picked up your brother’s knife. She gave the chain to
Isabel, and then—well, you know the rest. I imagine something scared
her just then—perhaps Anna Griffin coming back—for she forgot the
chain. If she hadn’t . . .”

I felt sick again. And he seemed to be blaming us as if we had driven
her to it.

“We were good to her, Tony,” I protested.

“I’m sure you were, after your fashion. Like your brother Larry, who
didn’t know she was around.”

I was on the sofa, and I remember leaning back and closing my eyes.

“You still don’t think much of us, do you?” I said.

He got up and came over to sit beside me, but I wasn’t leaning my head
on his shoulder. I knew better.

“Let’s forget it,” he said. “What about this war job you’re taking?”

“It’s just an idea,” I said meekly.

“Any other better ideas?”

“I wouldn’t mind a good strong man helping to support me. I could work
while he was away, couldn’t I?”

“What about after the war? If he’s just a common ordinary sort of
guy—maybe he couldn’t even get a job.”

“I could support him, couldn’t I?”

“The hell you could,” he said, and took me in his arms. Almost
immediately he let go of me, groaned, and rubbed his shoulder. “Damn
Hitler,” he said and kissed me.

He insisted on seeing Mother before he left. We went upstairs, to find
her in her nightgown and bare feet, padding out of Isabel’s boy’s room.
She didn’t mind her condition—as I have said, she sees nothing shameful
in good honest flesh—but she gave Tony a good long look.

“Good heavens,” she said. “Don’t tell me it’s you!”

“Just my working clothes,” he explained. “I thought I’d better tell you,
Mrs. Shepard. Judy here has just made me an offer of marriage. At first
I was inclined to refuse, but on thinking it over—”

You have to hand it to Mother. There she stood, looking like nothing on
earth, her hair in curlers and her chin strap hanging around her neck.
And did she care? She did not. She looked at Tony and gave him a
heavenly smile.

“I hope you accept her,” she said. “I never could handle her myself. You
look as though you might.”

“I’ll handle her all right,” he said grimly, and kissed her.

That’s the romantic way in which I was given away in marriage. . . .

                             