She was so rigidly controlled as she came into the dock that she wasn’t
Carey Silence any more, or a girl, or young, but just a will to walk
straight and seemly, to hold a proud head high, to bar sight and hearing
against all these people who had come to see her tried for her life.
There was a moment when the grip she had of herself wavered giddily.
Long ago when she was a child she had been taken up the winding stair of
a castle and brought suddenly out upon the open top of the keep to see a
river diamond-bright like a twisted thread among tiny fields a long way
down, roofs like the roofs of a toy village, a clockwork car small as a
beetle in the dust. A frightful giddiness had rushed in upon her then,
because all the things she had ever known were gone away to little
specks, and she was wrenched from them to this horrible height. The day
had ended in complete disgrace because she had thrown herself down flat
upon her face and refused to move.

Out of all the things that had ever happened to her this moment came
back now—not in words, scarcely even in a picture, but with the memory
of that sick moment when all familiar things had dwindled to a vanishing
point. She beat it off. There was enough strength in her for that. The
wardress who had come into the dock with her touched her on the shoulder
and told her to sit down. She sat holding her hands in her lap and
looking straight before her. After a moment or two it was not so bad.
The worst of it was coming out into the dock and feeling all those eyes
upon her as if she had been stripped naked and set there to be looked
at. Well, they were looking. She held herself against them. The giddy
moment was over, she could go on holding now.

She drew a long, steady breath, and then the wardress touched her again
and she stood up whilst the Clerk read the indictment. The words went by
her—odd cumbersome words, as out of date and curiously impressive as
the crimson of the Judge’s robes and the harsh iron-grey of his
eighteenth-century wig. He had a little alert face like a squirrel, with
bitten-in lips and small bright eyes. She found that she wasn’t
attending to the words. They went by, and she knew it all so well. That
is to say, she knew the meaning, but the words were cumbersome and
difficult. They set forth that on the sixteenth day of November Honoria
Maquisten had died of an overdose of a sleeping-draught, and that the
said overdose had been feloniously administered by the accused with
intent to cause the death of the said Honoria Maquisten.

The indictment was over. She sat down again.

Sir Wilbury Fossett, counsel for the Crown, rose to open the case. She
saw him get to his feet, large, bland, unhurried, and a wave of fear
came over her. It was like seeing someone stand up to shoot at
you—someone quite calm and at his ease, quite terribly practised in the
weapon he was going to use. Her heart thudded hard against her side, and
she lost what he was saying. Then, as she steadied again, Cousin
Honoria’s name came through.

“The accused is a relative of the deceased Mrs. Maquisten. She is the
granddaughter of a cousin who was her greatest friend when they were
girls together. Death robbed Mrs. Maquisten of her friend, and
circumstances separated her from that friend’s daughter. A long
estrangement ensued. Then one day Mrs. Maquisten saw in the papers that
a young girl had been involved in a railway accident due to enemy
action. This girl’s name attracted her attention. She rang up the
hospital, made inquiries, and discovered that Miss Carey Silence was
indeed the granddaughter of her cousin and early friend. A
correspondence followed, and when it transpired that Miss Silence had
been ordered a three months’ rest, Mrs. Maquisten wrote and offered her
a home. This offer was gratefully accepted. On November 2nd, therefore,
the accused entered Mrs. Maquisten’s household. . . .”




                                   II


Emerging from Maitland Road into Maitland Square, Carey Silence looked
first to her left and then to her right to see how the numbers ran. Over
the top of her head the voice of Mr. Jefferson Stewart said,

“It’s on the left, if you’re not too independent to have me say so.”

Carey tilted her chin and looked up at him. The look was a challenging
one. If Jeff Stewart thought he was going to come it over her just
because he had managed to find out when she was coming and turn up to
meet the train looking about seven feet high and trying to be
dictatorial about a taxi, he had got to be shown. Right there in the
station yard she had got down to showing him. If she couldn’t afford a
taxi or didn’t choose to afford one, that was her own private affair; it
had nothing to do with Jeff Stewart. She was perfectly able to carry her
suit-case. And wasn’t there a tube station not more than a quarter of a
mile from Maitland Square? If she couldn’t walk a quarter of a mile it
wasn’t much good her coming out of hospital, was it? At which point Jeff
had laughed, a very interfering sort of laugh, picked up the suit-case
with his left hand, taken her by the elbow with his right, and remarked
peaceably, “O.K.—you win.” As this was the first sign he had ever shown
of a tractable disposition, she concluded that it was the right way to
handle him. Firmness—that’s what he needed, and that’s what he was
going to get. She looked up and said,

“How do you know which side the house is?”

He appeared pained.

“Well now, what do you take me for? Your being Mrs. Maquisten’s cousin
and my being your cousin, that practically makes me a cousin of all the
Maquisten lot. Looked at like that——”

“Who’s looking at it like that?”

“I was. And I was getting all ready to fix it so you were too.”

Standing at the left-hand corner of Maitland Square, Carey tapped the
pavement with her foot.

“Now, Jeff Stewart——”

“All right, all right.” There was a lazy smile in his eyes and his voice
was lazy too. “If your Aunt Flora marrying my Uncle Jonathan Stewart
down in Richmond doesn’t make me your cousin, what does?”

Carey tapped again.

“Nothing.”

Mr. Stewart took no notice.

“So of course I went right away and got acquainted with Mrs. Maquisten.”

“You didn’t!”

His smile broadened.

“Very unbelieving sort of disposition you’ve got. Why, I was calling her
Cousin Honoria inside of the first ten minutes. She’s got a much more
logical sort of mind than you have. The minute I got down to explaining
about Aunt Flora writing you to say I was coming over on lease-lend
business and you were to be a nice affectionate cousin to me, she got
interested right away and said you were coming to stay with her—which I
knew, but thought perhaps better not say so. There she was, saying I
must look upon them all as cousins and come and see you whenever I
liked.”

Carey’s colour had risen.

“I don’t believe a word of it!”

“All right honey, you just wait and see.”

“And you’re not to call me honey.”

He looked disappointed.

“Not?”

“Certainly not.”

“Why not?”

An awful feeling that inside of five minutes this large American might
be calling her honey in front of old Cousin Honoria whom she had never
seen in her life prompted her to blandishment, a good deal against the
grain. She lifted the long dark lashes which made the blue of her eyes
seem even darker than it really was and said,

“_Jeff_——”

“All right, honey.”

Inside herself Carey was angry, but she also wanted to laugh. The
laughter and the anger shook together in her voice. She repeated his
name.

“_Jeff!_”

He responded with gratifying meekness.

“What do I call you?”

“Carey.”

“Sounds sort of cold. But it’s just like you say, so long as I don’t
forget.”

She began to walk briskly along the left-hand side of the Square. The
first house was 35, the next one 33. She said in what she hoped was a
repressive tone,

“You mustn’t forget.”

Over her head Jeff Stewart’s agreeable voice remarked,

“I’m liable to—I’ve a very poor memory.”

He got no answer to this. Carey was counting the houses. If she let him
make her laugh, it would be all up—she’d never be able to manage him
again. But why she should want to laugh when she was furious with him
was more aggravating than words could say. It was particularly enraging
to notice that he was carrying her suit-case as if it weighed about four
ounces, whereas when she tried to lift it herself it appeared to be
filled with lead. That was the worst of men, they were so odiously,
infuriatingly strong.

Jeff said, “You needn’t count the houses—I’ll tell you when we come to
it. Wouldn’t you like the lowdown on the family before we get there? You
don’t know any of them, do you?”

She looked up, a little startled.

“Is there anyone besides Cousin Honoria? She didn’t say.”

“Well then, see how useful I’m going to be. Anyone else? I’ll say so!”

“Who?”—a little anxiously.

“Well, Cousin Honoria—now don’t interrupt and say you know, because if
you haven’t seen her you don’t. Is she the Queen of Sheba! I wouldn’t
like you to think I was exaggerating, so I’ll just say she’d have had
Solomon guessing and leave it at that. Then there’s her nephew, Dennis
Harland—a couple of years younger than me, I should say—R.A.F.—got
smashed up flying, and they’re trying to put him together again—not so
bad now—gets about with a crutch. He’s there between treatments,
getting home comforts. Amusing chap. But you’d better not find him too
amusing. A bit of a lad, as you say over here.”

Carey lifted her lashes again.

“Thank you, grandpapa!”

Jeff Stewart continued without taking any notice of this.

“Robert Maquisten is another nephew. He doesn’t exactly live in the
house, but he’s there a lot. He’s in business. Then there’s a niece
called Nora Hull with a husband in the Middle East. She drives for some
general or other. Pretty little thing—lots to say for herself—knows
all about everything. And another niece, on the Maquisten side, Honor
King—sort of girl you wonder if she’s anywhere at all when she isn’t
there, but they say she packs parcels for prisoners of war. And then a
rather controlled kind of a nurse—Magda Brayle.”

“How do you mean, controlled?”

Jeff Stewart considered.

“Kind of starchy,” he said. “Kind of ‘I’m a nurse, and don’t you forget
it!’ Kind of ‘Here’s your nice medicine—drink it up!’ But Cousin
Honoria keeps her end up.”

Carey laughed.

“You seem to have found out quite a lot in one visit, Jeff,” she said.

“Who said it was one visit. I went and called there at tea-time on
Sunday. I lunched there on Tuesday, and dined on Thursday to meet Robert
and Nora. You didn’t believe me, but you just wait and see—they’re
practically my folks. Here we are.”

The house rose up before them, grey and large. Maitland Square had been
lucky. There were gaps amongst the houses in Maitland Street, but the
Square had escaped without damage. No. 13 had all its windows. Four
shallow steps led up to the front door. A stone canopy overhead was
chipped, but only slightly. The door had been painted black. The ornate
brass knocker which had once adorned it had passed into salvage. Vaguely
its outline could be traced upon the dimmed surface of the paint. The
number 13 displayed above in white paint replaced the brass figures,
which had also gone.

Jeff Stewart said, “Well, here we are.”

Carey walked up the four steps under the shadow of the porch and rang
the bell.




                                  III


A plump, fresh-faced girl of seventeen took Carey up to the first floor
and along a passage, where she knocked upon an imposing mahogany door. A
deep voice said “Come in!” The door was thrown open. The girl said “Miss
Silence, if you please, madam,” and Carey walked in.

The room was large, and lighted by two long windows opening upon a
wrought-iron balcony. It contained a great deal of furniture, as much as
any ordinary drawing-room, and Honoria Maquisten in bed. Actually it was
only the bed that Carey saw in that first moment—the bed and Cousin
Honoria. It stood opposite the door against the blank wall between the
fireplace and the farther window, and it was immensely large. Four
silver columns rose to support a canopy from which depended heavy
curtains of emerald and silver brocade. A coverlet of the same material
concealed the bed-clothes.

Honoria Maquisten sat up straight against a heaped mass of green,
violet, and blue pillows, with a shimmering silver wrap about her
shoulders. Sitting there, she looked as if she must be immensely
tall—her stiff, narrow shoulders were so high above the level of the
bed, whilst the piled-up curls of a flaring copper wig raised this
impression of height to the fantastic.

As she advanced Carey had time to be angry with Jeff Stewart. What was
the good of saying that Cousin Honoria was like the Queen of Sheba and
leaving it at that? The Queen of Sheba didn’t wear a vermilion wig
dressed about a foot high in several thousand curls. She might, of
course, have worn diamond earrings and more rings than you could really
believe in, and it was quite likely that she dripped with pearls. Cousin
Honoria was wearing five rows, and they were so large that you couldn’t
believe that they hadn’t come from Woolworth’s.

She reached the side of the bed and put out a hand to meet the long,
thin one which was extended to her. It felt bony and hard in hers, and
the rings ran into her. Some of them had slipped round, and the faceted
gems pressed into her flesh with their little sharp points. She had come
up on the inner side of the bed because Cousin Honoria was a little
nearer to that side. The hand gripped and held her there with the light
on her face. A pair of brilliant hazel eyes under plucked and darkened
eyebrows looked her through and through. Not a muscle of the face moved.
The long, thin features, the rather wide mouth, the chin a little
over-weighted by the rest of the face—all were without expression. The
carefully tinted skin, the carefully smoothed-out wrinkles, the
brilliant scarlet lips, gave a blank effect. Only the eyes were lively,
eager, and penetrating.

After a moment Honoria Maquisten said in her deep voice,

“Take off your hat.”

Carey put up her free hand and pulled it off. Her head with its shining
black hair came into view. There were two or three soft curls above the
brow, and some more at the side and back, but the whole effect was neat,
and trim, and shining. The black hair contrasted pleasantly with a
naturally white skin and dark blue eyes well shaded with lashes of the
same colour as the hair. With startling suddenness Mrs. Maquisten’s face
ceased to be a blank. The cheeks puckered, the wide mouth trembled.
Tears rushed to the eyes, and the deep voice said,

“Oh, my dear—you are so like Julia!”

You don’t really think of your grandmother by her Christian name. Carey
said, “Julia?” and thought too late that it would have been better to
say nothing at all.

Still holding her hand and pressing a diamond ring into it, Mrs.
Maquisten said,

“My dear, dear Julia—your grandmother.” She brought her other hand into
action and patted Carey. “My first cousin, you know, but we were just
like sisters. She died too young. It must be fifty years ago, but I
haven’t forgotten her, and I never shall. But your mother married
Arbuthnot Silence, and we didn’t get on at all. A most opinionated man,
though of course he was your father, so we won’t say any more about him,
and it’s a long time ago. How old are you?”

“I am twenty-two, Cousin Honoria.”

The hazel eyes took on a tragic look.

“Julia died when she was twenty. And nobody told me that you were like
her. It’s like seeing her again after all these years. Why didn’t they
call you Julia?”

Carey felt very glad that they had not. Cousin Honoria was trying to
make her feel like a ghost. She resisted with all her might. Julia was
dead. She wasn’t Julia’s ghost, she was Carey Silence with her own life
to live. She held tight on to that and said,

“I don’t know.”

Honoria Maquisten let go of her hand and pulled herself up a little
higher against her pillows. The wide mouth broke into a smile.

“It doesn’t mean anything to you, does it? But it’s a great pleasure to
me, so you mustn’t mind. I won’t bother you about it. And you mustn’t
mind being like Julia, because she was very pretty and everyone loved
her. And that’s all we’ll say about her now, because I want to talk
about you. Are you quite strong again?”

“Oh, yes.”

“But they won’t pass you for any of the services?”

“No. They said to come back in three months.”

“Yes, I remember you said so in one of your letters. You certainly ought
not to rough it until you are quite strong. You won’t want to talk about
the experience.”

“I didn’t really know much about it. Mr. Andrews was going down to his
constituency, and I was with him—I was his secretary, you know. And
then the sirens sounded and the train stopped, and there was some
firing. Mr. Andrews called out, and I think he pulled me down off the
seat, so I suppose he saved my life. And the next thing I knew I was in
hospital all bandaged up, and they told me he was dead. He was such a
dear old thing. I loved working for him.”

“But you don’t want to go on being a secretary?”

Carey flushed.

“I thought I might try for a temporary post——”

Mrs. Maquisten said, “Stuff and rubbish!” Then she burst out laughing.
“Come—I’m not in the least what you expected, am I?”

Carey laughed too.

“I don’t know what I expected.”

The hazel eyes danced, lighting up the long, thin face.

“Not me anyhow! A nice old lady, sitting by the fire in a shawl, with
silver hair—portrait of a grandmother. No, a great-aunt—I never had
any brats. Lord—how I hate white hair! Mine’s been red all my life, and
red it’s going to stay. No, it isn’t a wig, though I expect you think it
is. I’ve always had a good head of hair, and it’s nobody’s business
where the colour comes from.”

There was something infectious about the rollicking vigour with which
she spoke. Carey let herself go and said in a laughing voice,

“I don’t suppose it is. But you wouldn’t mind anyhow, would you?”

Mrs. Maquisten was delighted.

“No, I shouldn’t—I never have and I never shall. You know, you said
that just the way Julia used to say things. I’m glad you’ve got her
spirit. I don’t like meek little mice. Wait till you meet my niece
Honor—the spit and image of a white mouse with pink eyes! Honor
King—James’s niece, not mine, I’m thankful to say, but they named her
for me, which annoyed me very much when I saw how she was going to turn
out. My step-brother called a girl after me too—Nora Hull. She lives
here—you’ll meet her presently. She’s a pretty little piece, so my side
of the family comes the best out of it.” She quirked up the thin plucked
eyebrows. “Honor—Nora—bit of a joke, isn’t it?”

Carey thought the less she said the better. She let herself laugh.

Quite abruptly Mrs. Maquisten was as grave as a judge. She folded her
right hand over her left and looked down at the glittering
rings—diamond half-hoop, diamond solitaire, emerald and diamond
cluster, emerald half-hoop with winking diamond points, emerald and
diamond marquise covering the forefinger from the second joint to the
knuckle. She frowned at the brightness and the colour and said deep and
low,

“Not so much of a joke if you let yourself think about it. How many
babies do you suppose would have been named after me if I’d had a few of
my own?”

“I don’t know, Cousin Honoria.”

The wide mouth twitched into a sudden smile.

“Nor do I, but I can guess. Sprats to catch a whale, my dear—that’s
what those Honoria’s are. And Dennis Harland is Dennis Honorius!” She
gave an abrupt laugh. “I’ll do him the justice to say he’s horribly
ashamed of it. Sprats, my dear—sprats. But the whale isn’t caught yet.
Oh, lord!” The laughter shook her. “I’m thin to be a whale, aren’t I?
That’s where metaphors trip you up. A thin old jewelled whale bedizened
with silver, and everyone hopefully throwing sprats!” She stopped
suddenly, stared, and said, “Why don’t you laugh?”

“I didn’t like it.”

“No sprats of your own?”

The colour flew, scarlet to the roots of Carey’s hair. Her eyes blazed.
She stamped her foot and said,

“No!”

Mrs. Maquisten said “Temper,” in an indulgent voice. She put out a
glittering hand. “Sorry, my dear—I just wanted to see how you’d react.
I’m a horrid old woman—don’t take any notice of me. I expect you’d like
to see your room. It’s another floor up.”

She picked up a little ivory bell-push on a long green flex and pressed
it. A bell rang sharply quite near by, and before it had stopped ringing
a door which Carey had not noticed opened quite close to the head of the
bed and a nurse came in. She was very stiffly starched just as Jeff had
said, but she moved without any sound at all.

“Nurse Brayle,” said Honoria Maquisten carelessly. “My cousin, Carey
Silence.”

Carey found herself wondering what Nurse Brayle would look like without
all the whiteness and the starch. She had never seen anyone whose
clothes were so much a part of her. She could not picture the head
without its cap, or the neck without its collar, the trim severe figure
in anything except uniform. Regular features, grey eyes, a glimpse of
dark brown hair. First, foremost, and all the time you would think of
Magda Brayle as a nurse. She didn’t seem even to have any age.
Twenty-five—thirty—thirty-five—uniform has no age. Magda—curious
name——

Mrs. Maquisten used it now.

“Magda, just take Carey up to her room, and then come back and get me
ready for tea.” She turned to Carey. “Come down when you hear the bell.
Tea will be in here.” Her eyes sparkled maliciously. “You must, I am
sure, be looking forward to meeting your cousins.”




                                   IV


Magda Brayle took Carey up to a pleasant small room on the next floor.
The windows looked out to the back and showed lines of brick wall
running down from all the other houses to what looked like an
old-fashioned mews. The plot belonging to No. 13 was larger than any of
the others, being a wide rectangle, with paved work, ornamental
conifers, stone seats of a classic pattern, and a fountain where a
marble boy struggled with three athletic dolphins. Inside, the room had
a comfortable absence of grandeur. Carey didn’t feel as if she could
have borne any more brocade and silver. The walls were painted cream,
curtains and chair-covers of shiny chintz patterned with oyster shells
and blue ribbons, the carpet of natural wool. There were blue cushions
and a blue eiderdown.

She said, “How pretty! But one ought to be about sixteen——”

If she expected any human response, she didn’t get it, either to the
words or to the tentative smile which had gone with them. Nurse Brayle
informed her that there was a bathroom next door, and that tea would be
ready in about a quarter of an hour. As she turned to go, Carey tried
again. There must be something under all that starch.

“I didn’t know that Cousin Honoria was ill. She didn’t say anything
about it in her letters. Is she in bed all the time?”

“Oh, no.”

Nurse Brayle did not interrupt her progress towards the door. As soon as
she had spoken she went out and down the stair without making the very
slightest sound. Carey relieved her feelings by shutting the door rather
briskly.

When she came downstairs again the door of Mrs. Maquisten’s room stood
open. A young man with a crutch under his arm was just going in, whilst
from behind, with flying steps, came a little creature in a green and
plum-coloured uniform. Carey got the impression of something as rounded
and graceful as a kitten—fluffy short hair in negligent bright curls,
wide brown eyes, and carnation colour. She came up with a rush, slipped
a hand inside Carey’s arm, and said, “I’m Nora Hull. We’ll both get
black marks if we’re late for tea. She hates it.” And with that they
were over the threshold together.

At the first glance the room seemed to be full of people. Mrs. Maquisten
had left her bed, and sat in state beside the fire in a large brocaded
chair. The silver wrap had been discarded for a long robe of emerald
velvet trimmed with fur. The rings, the pearls, the earrings caught the
light from a great crystal chandelier. The green and silver curtains had
been drawn and the room closed in. The effect was one of light,
brightness, and colour, and, over all, the dominant red of Cousin
Honoria’s hair.

The young man with the crutch had reached her chair and was standing
beside her. On the other side of the hearth behind a massive tea
equipage was the authentic white mouse of Mrs. Maquisten’s
description—a little pale creature with hair of a washed-out flaxen and
eyes of a washed-out blue. She was childishly small, but she had no look
of youth. She was pouring out tea from a bulging silver teapot which
looked much too heavy for her, and when Carey came up and was introduced
her hand shook and some of the tea went over the edge of the tray to
stain a lacy cloth.

The large hand of Mr. Jefferson Stewart came over the slight shoulder
and took hold of the teapot.

“You know, that’s much too heavy for you,” he said. “Now I’m the world’s
best tea-pourer. You let me take this on.”

Honor King said “How do you do?” to Carey in a small, distracted voice
and shot a nervous glance at her Aunt Honoria. She got a sarcastic one
in reply.

“He can certainly do it a great deal better than you do—that doesn’t
set a very high standard.”

Jeff Stewart was pouring out tea in the grand manner.

“You know, Cousin Honoria, this is a very interesting experience for me.
Those yarns about the Victorian woman being so weak and delicate that
she hardly ever came out of a swoon—I’ll be in a position to go home
and tell them that they’re all bally-hoo. Apart from having families of
a dozen or so, which they must have had to want a teapot this size,
they’d need to have real good muscle to handle it.”

“You might give a lecture on the subject,” said Honoria Maquisten drily.

The young man with the crutch came over and took a chair by Carey.

“He’s giving one,” he said. And then, “Nobody’s introducing us, but I’m
Dennis Harland.”

Magda Brayle was handing round the cups. She gave one to Carey now.

Dennis said, “You’ll have to take saccharine—Mrs. Deeping keeps all the
sugar to make jam with. When I’m eating the jam I think it’s worth it;
but when I’m drinking the tea I’m not so sure.” He had a pleasant voice,
and so much charm that it didn’t really matter what he said. You had the
warm, delightful feeling that in talking to you he had achieved a life
ambition. The hazel eyes which were so like Cousin Honoria’s were bright
with interest and admiration. The voice, whatever words it used, was
saying all the time, “I love to talk to you.”

When she looked back afterwards Carey had the strongest impression of
intimacy with all these people. It wasn’t that she felt at home with
them, or comfortable, or happy in her mind, for she did not. There were
moments when she felt most bleakly strange. There were moments when she
had the lost dog feeling and could, with shame be it said, have wept
upon Jeff Stewart’s solid tweed shoulder. But there were also moments
when a terrifying sense of intimacy touched her. There was the moment
when Nora called across the sofa in her light, high voice, “How did you
get on at the hospital, Den? Weren’t you to see some bigwig or other
this morning? What did he say?”

Dennis shrugged and flung her one brief sentence.

“The usual rubbish.”

Curiously, and entirely, the charm was all gone. He looked dry and cold.

Nora again: “He doesn’t want to take the foot off, does he?”

“Why should he?”

Nora went on talking about people who had had a foot off and people who
hadn’t had a foot off, and how wonderful artificial legs were and what a
lot you could do with one.

Dennis Harland didn’t appear to be listening. He began to tell Carey a
story which might have been funny, only she couldn’t attend to it.

It was a little after this that he looked across her to Honor King and
said, dropping his voice,

“So the boy friend’s back.”

She looked under her pale lashes and then down at her folded hands.

“I don’t know what you mean, Dennis.”

“No, of course you don’t. Nasty rough place, the Army—I don’t suppose
he liked it a bit. For the matter of that, I don’t suppose they liked
him either. How did they get rid of him?”

Honor said nothing. Her eyelids and the tip of her nose had turned quite
pink. She really was dreadfully like a white mouse, but you can’t stand
by and see the poor little wretch tormented. Carey was casting about for
something to say, when Nora came by and stood for a moment with her
empty cup in her hand. She laughed and said to Honor in a light,
contemptuous voice,

“Why don’t you scratch his eyes out? What’s it all about?”

To which Dennis responded darkly,

“Too, too Ernest. But hush—we are observed. To be continued in our
next.”

From the other side of the hearth Honoria Maquisten’s dominating voice:

“What are you whispering about? You haven’t got a ha’porth of manners
among you. Jeff Stewart, come over here and talk to me! Honor, get back
to the tea-tray! I suppose you can lift the teapot now that it’s nearly
empty. And, Nora, _you_ go and get out of that uniform as soon as you’ve
finished—it swears at every single thing in the room! And when you’ve
got back into civilized clothes again you’d better sit down and write to
your husband!”

Nora’s colour brightened dangerously, making her look so much like a
little girl in a rage that Carey caught her breath. If she had really
been six years old she might have thrown that empty cup at Cousin
Honoria. But you don’t throw cups at twenty-six. At least Carey hoped
not, but for one of those revealing moments she wasn’t any too sure.

As Jeff Stewart crossed over and Honor slipped back into her place,
Dennis said in his agreeable low-pitched voice,

“Don’t let your angry passions rise, or tears of temper fill your eyes.”
Upon which Nora banged down her cup and ran out of the room.

“Pepperpot—isn’t she? It goes with our disastrous hair. Ginger in the
hair—pepper in the temper. And if you want the lid to blow right off,
you can tell her that Aunt Honoria’s hair is the one legacy that she can
be absolutely sure about. On second thoughts, perhaps you’d better not
do anything of the sort. I’m saving it up for a really serious row.”

Carey looked at him curiously. He had the same peaty brown eyes as Nora,
and the same bright chestnut hair. She laughed and said,

“But it isn’t red.”

“Ssh—not a word! The idea that it is goes down awfully well, and we
study to please. I’ve often advised Honor to try a good strong henna
shampoo and see what it would do for her.” He had raised his voice
sufficiently to allow this kind remark to reach the tea-table, where it
was received with a sniff.

Carey said in a quick whisper,

“Why are you so unkind to her?”

Dennis burst out laughing.

“Honor, my precious, she wants to know why we’re not being nice to you.”

Carey felt a most unregenerate desire to smack his face. After giving
him a look which made this quite plain, she took her cup over to the
tray and bent down with it in her hand.

“Is he always such a frightful tease?” she said in an easy, laughing
voice.

Honor gave another small sniff. The tip of her nose was pink and shiny.
The heavy teapot shook as she lifted it. When she had put it down again
and added milk to Carey’s cup she lifted her reddened eyelids and
colourless lashes for a moment. They fell again immediately.

Carey went back to her seat disquieted. It wasn’t possible that you
could be disliked like that, right away in about five minutes, by a
white mouse of a creature whom you’d never even thought of harming. She
told herself that she must have imagined the cold repulsion in that pale
lifted glance, but all through Dennis Harland’s talk it kept coming back
to her, and every time she liked it less. She found herself asking
abruptly,

“Is Nora your sister? I haven’t quite placed you all yet.”

He said, “No—we’re all cousins. Aunt Honoria’s papa married again and
had a son and daughter—very annoying for Aunt Honoria. The daughter had
Nora, and the son had me. Both of them piously bestowed their
half-sister’s name upon their brats. You see, grandpapa hadn’t any money
to leave—at least not as much as you’d really notice. But Aunt
Honoria’s mother was a most impressive heiress, so of course Honoria
married Maquisten and about half a million more. Our darling Honor comes
in on the Maquisten side. Her mamma was Uncle James’s sister—a great
deal younger of course. She ran away with a chemist’s assistant or
something and got cut off without a sixpence. So here we are, a loving,
united, hopeful family.”

Mrs. Maquisten’s voice broke in on a threatening note.

“What are you stuffing Carey up with? I won’t have it! Do you hear?”

He turned towards her, laughing and blowing her a kiss.

“Darling, I was telling her what dutiful nieces and nephews we are. Of
course she hasn’t met Robert yet. That’s something for her to live for.”

As if the name had been his cue, Robert Maquisten opened the door and
came in—a thickset man of middle height, dark, with the complexion
which comes from a sedentary life. He had a forceful, businesslike air,
and the manner of a man who is very much at home. He kissed his aunt,
took the chair which Jeff Stewart had vacated, without appearing to
notice him, and gave a nod and a casual “Hullo!” to the rest of the
party. Introduced to Carey, he dismissed her with a quick uninterested
glance. For Magda Brayle who brought him a cup of tea he had no glance
at all. In a voice that dominated the conversation he made two remarks
about the weather and three about the war, after which he disposed of
his tea in rapid gulps and addressed Honoria Maquisten.

“I really came to have a word with you, if you can spare me the time.”

The tone was not quite so deferential as the words. Mrs. Maquisten’s
eyes sparkled in appreciation of this. There was mockery in her voice as
she said,

“How very—businesslike!”

“Well, I want to talk to you about business, Aunt Honoria.”

“Mine, or yours, Robert?”

“Well——” he looked down the room—“I don’t know that I’m prepared to
go into that in a crowd.”

Mrs. Maquisten lifted her voice after the manner of a toastmaster at a
banquet.

“My lords, ladies, and gentlemen, pray silence for Mr. Robert
Maquisten!” At the sight of his stiffening face she broke into laughter.
“All right, Bob, all right!” Her hands went out with a flash of all the
rings. “Shoo, children—I’ve had enough of you!”




                                   V


As they came out into the corridor, Jeff Stewart put a hand on Carey’s
arm.

“I’ve got to go—I’m meeting a man about a gun, and I’m dining out after
that. But you’re lunching with me to-morrow.”

“Who told you that?”

“I’m telling you. I’ll call for you at twelve, and we’ll go shopping.”

“I haven’t anything to shop.”

He sounded pained.

“But I have, honey.”

She tapped her foot on the carpet.

“You’re not to call me honey!”

“Sorry, darling—I forgot.”

The tap was repeated with energy.

“Or darling.”

“All right, honey.”

“Jeff Stewart!”

Dark blue sparkling eyes met lazy grey ones.

“All right, all right, let’s start all over again. I call for you at
twelve, and you come and help me choose a Christmas present.”

“People aren’t giving presents.”

“I’m giving this one, and I’m liable to fall down over it if you don’t
come along and help. Maybe I won’t keep it for Christmas. I’ll get it
first, and then we’ll see. So there we are. Third time lucky. I’ll be
round at twelve.”

She let him go on, and went up to her room, where she unpacked her
things. She wondered about Honor, about Nora, about Dennis. She liked
Dennis. She thought he was an easy person to like—too easy? She thought
that perhaps a lot of girls had liked him too easily. She thought, “He’s
horribly afraid about losing his leg.” It was horrible of Nora to talk
about it like that. She didn’t mean it of course—Nora never would mean
anything. But she had her sore spot too. It was when Cousin Honoria told
her to write to her husband that she had looked as if she might be going
to throw a cup at her. She wondered about that.

And she wondered about Honor, whose eyelids and nose had turned pink
when Dennis teased her, and who had looked at Carey with pale dislike.
She seemed a most unlikely person to be having a love affair, but of
course you never could tell. The teasing meant nothing at all if it
didn’t mean that. And the man had been in the Army and come out of it
again. And either his name or his nature was Ernest. She thought it was
his name.

She began to think about going out with Jeff tomorrow. He was
frightfully impudent and out of hand, and he would have to be shown. But
he hadn’t got any secret sorrows, and he hadn’t taken a fancy to her
because she was like her grandmother. She felt as if it might be rather
a relief to get away from No. 13 for a little.

She took herself to task about this. She had only just come—she hadn’t
had time to settle down. The first day in a house full of strangers
always had a world-without-end kind of feeling. She put the last of her
things away, and told herself firmly how very, very lucky she was to
have a roof over her head and a comfortable room, and a kind Cousin
Honoria, because if it were not for these blessings, she would be in the
really horrid position of having no more than three pounds to cover the
three months during which she had been ordered not to work. Looked at in
this way—and it was the only proper way to look at it—No. 13 Maitland
Square was very definitely a Haven of Refuge. She must clamp on to that
like mad. Suppose she had been coming out of hospital with three pounds
in her pocket and nowhere to go. . . . She could get a job all right,
but she wasn’t sure about being able to keep it. She got so dreadfully
tired. That was what was the matter with her now—she was tired. She lay
down on the bed and pulled the blue eiderdown up to her chin. Rather to
her own surprise, she fell asleep.

She woke with no idea what time dinner was, scrambled into a dark blue
house-gown, and went down, to find the rosy-cheeked girl just about to
beat upon a gong. At its first notes Honor appeared, and then more
slowly, from the stairs, Dennis Harland. He was in evening dress, but
Honor had not changed. Carey couldn’t help thinking that if she had
tried she couldn’t have found anything less becoming to wear than that
brief, tight dress of stone-coloured wool.

Down the stairs Nora came running. She was bareheaded, and the copper
curls shone. Under a dark fur coat a dress with bright metallic threads
in it shone too. Dennis said,

“Always in a hurry—aren’t you? Who is it tonight?”

“Oh, Jack——”

“Rather a lot of Jack just now?”

Half way to the door Nora whirled round, her colour high.

“If you’re thinking of making mischief——”

Standing there leaning upon his crutch, he gave her the most charming
smile in the world.

“Darling, you shock me. And what will our cousin Carey think?”

Nora laughed, a musical laugh with a beat of anger in it.

“I suppose she’ll think that anyone who isn’t dead and buried would like
to get out of this old tomb of a house sometimes, and that I don’t much
care who I go with—Jack, Reggie, Alan—what’s the odds?”

Dennis laughed too.

“Oh, quite. Have a nice time, darling. Explanations are a mistake, don’t
you think? Sparkling indifference is so much more convincing.”

Then, when the door had banged after her, he turned to Carey.

“Come along and dine. I’m afraid I can’t offer you an arm.”

They came into a room all bleached oak and vermilion leather, with a
bowl of bright glass fruits in the middle of the table. Carey thought,
“It’s like a room on the stage, startling and attractive for once, but
imagine sitting down to breakfast in it for three hundred and sixty-five
days in the year!” Quite frankly, imagination boggled. Anyhow, since
they were there, she was thankful to feel that her own deep sapphire
blue didn’t go too badly with all that scarlet and buff.

As they sat down, Magda Brayle slipped into the room and took her seat
at the foot of the table, leaving Carey and Honor facing one another at
the sides. How she managed to move and sit down without a single rustle
was very surprising. She was there as a piece of furniture is there, and
as little seemed to be expected of her. As far as Honor and Dennis were
concerned, she might not have been there at all. When Carey spoke to her
she certainly answered, but in words as few and flat as if she had been
an automaton with just such words to say. Having said them, she ate her
soup, her fish, her savoury, without interest and more as a matter of
business than of appetite. The others continued to ignore her.

Carey discovered that she was hungry, and that Cousin Honoria had a cook
who made war-time food taste like a beautiful dream.

Over the fish Dennis surveyed the drab figure on his left.

“Honor, my sweet, does that distressing garment indicate that you are
going out to-night? Am I right in supposing that you are doing a flick?”
He turned to Carey. “She’s a fan. Vicarious crime, love, and
adventure—lots of it, piping hot.”

Honor said in a small, obstinate voice,

“Plenty of people like films besides me. You don’t say things like that
to them. Why shouldn’t I go to the pictures if I like? If you want to
know, I’m meeting Daphne.”

His eyebrows went up as high as they would go.

“Daphne?”

Honor looked down at her plate.

“That’s what I said.”

“I know, I know. Oh, what a tangled web we weave when first we practise
to deceive! The first step on the downward path! Most confusing to the
moral sense to say Daphne when you mean Ernest—no saying what it may
lead to——” He broke off as the service door opened to admit the plump
young maid. “Molly, is there any beer in the house?”

“Mrs. Deeping’s very sorry, Mr. Dennis, but we’ve run out, and they
promised it faithful, but it hasn’t come.”

“All right—curse Hitler! I’ll have water—a drink only meant for
fishes.” He addressed Carey. “Which would you rather—drink water all
your life, or have to eat marge instead of butter?”

“I drink water anyhow.”

“Hence the schoolgirl complexion!”

It brightened.

Molly took away the plates, and the meal went on. As soon as it was over
Honor disappeared. Dennis led the way to what he called the Study, a
quite pleasant and not at all exotic room, with comfortable chairs, a
log fire, book-lined walls, a wireless cabinet, and a piano.

“Why haven’t we met before? Where have you been hidden? One of Aunt
Honoria’s feuds?”

Carey nodded.

“Something like that. She loved my grandmother, and she wanted to adopt
my mother. When my grandfather wouldn’t hear of it, there was a split.
After my mother married they met once or twice, but Cousin Honoria
didn’t get on with my father—not at all. Then my mother died—a motor
accident—and it was the same thing over again. She wanted to adopt me,
and there was a simply tearing row. My father went off abroad—he wrote,
you know—and left me with his sister. And then he died, and she died
just as I was leaving school. She’d been living on an annuity, and there
was only just enough money to see me through a secretarial course. And
then my old headmistress got me a job with Mr. Andrews, who was an M.P.
and an old friend of hers. He was a pet, and so was his wife in a way,
and I stayed there until the other day. He was killed when they
machine-gunned the train we were in, and Cousin Honoria saw my name in
the papers and wrote to the hospital and asked me to come and stay with
her. I’m not supposed to take a job for three months.”

“A very nice succinct autobiography. But you’ve left nearly all of it
out. No love-life?”

“Absolutely none.”

“Then it won’t sell.”

Molly came in with the coffee, and he went on talking about
autobiographies and what made them sell until she had gone out of the
room. Then he laughed and said,

“I wonder what Candid Confessions by Honor would be like. Why are women
with white eyelashes born liars? I’ll say that for Nora, she doesn’t
tell lies—at least not often enough to notice. But Honor——” He
sketched a circle with his cigarette, and a spark fell, going out as it
touched the carpet.

“She’s frightened. Why do you frighten her?”

The brown eyes looked at her, a curious straight look.

“What’s she got to be frightened about? No more than the rest of us. She
can’t take it, that’s all. No guts, like the Elle-maids. As far as I
remember, they were very like our darling Honor. They had fair hair,
they looked like women until you got behind them, and then there wasn’t
anything inside them—no back, no innards—nothing but a façade. Norse
mythology. I think our Honor is an Elle-maid.”

“You shouldn’t torment her.”

“Why not? It amuses me. I must have something to amuse me. If I couldn’t
quarrel with Nora and stick an occasional pin into Honor, I’d go raving.
Besides, you know, this Ernest affair is about the limit.”

“What’s the matter with him?”

He flung the stub of his cigarette into the fire.

“What’s wrong! Ever hear of the respected Aylwin? No, you wouldn’t, but
he’s Aunt Honoria’s solicitor, and a kind of family connection into the
bargain. One of those firms where everyone has died off, but the names
are kept embalmed like a lot of mummies—Weston, Weston, Montague, and
Aylwin. Well, he’s Aylwin, and about twice a month when Aunt Honoria
changes her will he comes along and gives her a lot of good advice which
she doesn’t take.”

Carey looked up, she didn’t quite know why. Their eyes met.

“Why does she change her will?”

He was smiling, but the smile did not reach his eyes.

“Because it amuses her. She’s been doing it for years—she does it all
the time. Robert, Honor, Nora, and I—we’re all on our promotion. If
she’s annoyed she does a little juggling with her will—five thousand
off Nora and on to me—ten thousand off me and on to our respectable
Robert—twenty thousand off Honor and perhaps, who knows, on to you.”

“_Dennis!_”

He laughed at her indignant tone.

“It would be more than that if anyone blew the gaff about Ernest Hood,
and Honor knows it. That’s why she creeps about going pink round the
nose. Because, you know, Ernest is the respected Aylwin’s clerk, and
Aunt Honoria would just about die in a fit if she thought he would dare
look the same side of the street as Uncle James’s niece. He used to come
here with papers for Aunt Honoria to sign, and I suppose Honor chucked
herself at his head. Then he got called up for the Army, and we hoped
we’d seen the last of him. But he’s back again—flat feet, or fallen
arches or something. Perhaps they just couldn’t swallow him. I’m sure I
don’t blame them.”

“What’s wrong about him?”

Dennis was lighting a cigarette. He drew at it, flung the match into the
fire, and said,

“Everything. He’s like the sort of things you turn up under a
stone—definitely sub-human.”

“Why does Honor——”

“She wants to get married, and I should think Ernest is the only person
who has ever shown the slightest sign of asking her. He won’t commit
himself unless he’s sure about the money, and that’s just what nobody
can be sure about.”

Carey sat up rather straight. She was pale. Her skin looked very white
between the deep blue of her dress and the shining black of her hair.
Her eyes matched the dress, and her lashes matched the hair. She said,

“Why are you telling me all this?”

Dennis smiled his very charming smile.

“Perhaps because you’re easy to look at, perhaps because there’s a
natural bond of sympathy between us. Or I might be warning you off the
grass, or inviting you to join the expectant throng.”

“Why should you?”

He blew out a little cloud of smoke. It tinged the air between them.

“Well, my own idea has always been that we ought to have a gentleman’s
agreement, just among the family. If we agreed to share and share alike,
whatever the will said, we should know exactly where we were and cut out
this uncertainty which is playing the devil with us all. You see, we’ve
been brought up too close to money to do without it, and none of us have
twopence-half-penny of our own except Robert—and show me anyone in
business who doesn’t want more, especially these days. Then take Nora.
Her husband hasn’t got a bean—if he gets killed she’ll have about two
hundred a year. Aunt Honoria has brought her up to spend double that on
her clothes. Say he comes home—they’ll have nothing but his Army
pension unless Aunt Honoria plays up. Take Honor. She’s thirty-two and
she’s never been trained for anything. She hasn’t the nerve, or the
health, or the guts to earn her living. And she’s all set to marry
Ernest, who wouldn’t look at her if she got herself cut out of Aunt
Honoria’s will.” He let his hand with a cigarette between the first and
second fingers fall upon his knee and watched the smoke go up, his eyes
curiously intent. “Take me. She’s always given me an allowance. When
you’ve always had a thing, it’s not so easy to do without it. I’m a
crock. They don’t know whether they’re going to take my foot off, or
whether that will be the end of it if they do.” He laughed a little, and
Carey bit her lip suddenly and sharply—the sound jarred her so much.
“See?” he said. “A kind of family pool would put us all on velvet,
because there’s really enough for everyone. I wouldn’t at all mind
letting you in on it. In fact, it’s the only rational thing to do,
because it’s on the cards that she might take an absolutely devastating
fancy to you and leave you—well, not the lot, but an uncomfortably
large slice. You see, she’s in the mood for something of the sort, poor
old pet. Her friend Mrs. Gwent has just died—a terrifying female, but
they were at school together and they’d kept it up like mad ever since.
Well, now she’s gone, and you are Julia’s granddaughter—she was talking
to me about her last night, all keyed-up. Don’t you see it’s quite
likely that slice might come your way?”

Carey frowned.

“You’re talking nonsense, but it isn’t the sort of nonsense I like. I
wish you’d stop.”

He drew at his cigarette, his eyes warm and smiling.

“The unpalatable truth, my dear. The only thing that makes this kind of
thing endurable is frankness. Unfortunately my beautiful idea of a pool
won’t work because, for one thing, Robert wouldn’t play. He thinks far
too much of himself to admit that Aunt Honoria could possibly fail to
leave most of Uncle James’s money to the only male Maquisten, to say
nothing of his personal merits—and he’s not in the least modest about
those either. And secondly, the rest of us most unfortunately don’t
trust each other. We don’t trust Robert either as a matter of fact, and
he certainly wouldn’t trust us. So we’re back where we started, all
sitting round with our tongues hanging out, and Aunt Honoria switching
legacies whenever she hadn’t got anything else to do. To start a new
metaphor, it’s exactly like a game of musical chairs—some day the music
will stop and somebody won’t have anything to sit down on.” He threw
away the end of his cigarette, pitched another log on to the fire, and
limped over to the piano. “Moral song,” he said. “Prepare to be
edified.”

His fingers ran up and down the keys rapidly and easily. He had a
brilliant touch, and when he began to sing, a melodious baritone voice.
As the piano stood, he could play, sing, and look at Carey all at the
same time.

    “Once upon a time, as I believe.
     Very long ago? Yes, very long ago.
     Adam lived, and loved, and married Eve.
     Oh, so very, very long ago.
     Here’s the book well thumbed for us to read in.
     How much wiser we should be than they.
                        Yet to-day
     Young Adam lives, and loves, and loses Eden
     In just the same old pre-diluvial way.

     Once upon a time, as I’ve been told,
     Very long ago? Yes, very long ago.
     Midas lived who had the touch of gold.
     Oh, so very, very long ago.
     Here’s the tale still told for him who listens.
     How much wiser all of us should be.
                        Yet you see
     We still believe that all is gold that glistens
     And find ourselves as asinine as he.”

He looked at her, laughing, over the last chords.

She said, “Who wrote that?”

“I did.”

“It’s clever. You’re good—aren’t you?”

He twisted round on the piano-stool and fished out his cigarette-case.

“Thank you! I have thought of retiring upon street singing if I’m
unlucky enough to be odd man out when Aunt Honoria packs up.”




                                   VI


As Carey went upstairs to bed, the door of Mrs. Maquisten’s room opened
and a little elderly woman in a black stuff dress came out. She had a
small wrinkled face, grey hair brushed smooth and twisted into a tight
knot behind, and little sunken eyes. Something about the way her head
poked forward and the silent way she moved put Carey in mind of a
lizard.

“Mrs. Maquisten would like to speak to you.”

Carey went back with her, was shown in, and was aware of the door
closing behind her without any sound at all. It was a relief to hear
Cousin Honoria’s voice bidding her come and say good-night. She went
over to the bed as she had done on her arrival.

A mild transformation had taken place. The silken cushions were now
green linen pillows. There were still a great many of them. The brocaded
coverlet had been replaced by a thin spread embroidered in wool with
little bright bunches of flowers. A hem-stitched green sheet was turned
down over it. Cousin Honoria’s rings, earrings, and pearls lay in a heap
on the table beside the bed, and a lace cap covered the red curls. One
of the thin hands came out, looking quite undressed without its
diamonds.

“Well, my dear, what sort of an evening have you had?”

“Very nice, thank you.”

“Get on all right with my young people?”

“Oh, yes.”

To her relief, Mrs. Maquisten did not pursue this. She said,

“I told Ellen I wanted to see you. Thank God, she does what she’s
told—at least in that sort of way. Nurses don’t. They tell you you
won’t sleep or something like that and begin to be soothing. But Ellen’s
been my maid for long enough to do what she’s told. Thirty-five
years—it’s a long time. And I’ve got my own bell that rings in her
room, so I’m not quite at any nurse’s mercy yet.” She screwed round in
bed, made a schoolgirl grimace at the door in the wall. “So you may put
that in your pipe and smoke it, Magda Brayle!” She turned back, to see
Carey laughing. “You’ve got to keep your end up with a nurse or she’ll
down you. I’m not ready to be downed—not yet anyhow. There—be off to
your bed! And if anyone isn’t nice to you, put them in their place.
You’ve as much right here as the rest of them, and you can say I said
so.”

Carey went upstairs soberly. She was so tired that she fell asleep at
once, but something followed her into her sleep and cast a shadow there
which never quite became a dream. Only in the shadow something moved and
someone wept—inaudibly, bitterly, dreadfully. She woke to a dark
morning and Molly bringing her a cup of tea.

Jeff Stewart fetched her at twelve. She was surprised and a little bit
shocked to find herself so glad to see him, because what he wanted was
to be taken down a peg or two. It is very difficult to take people down
when they can see with their own eyes that you’re as pleased as Punch.
For a moment she thought that Jeff was going to kiss her, but she got a
rather frozen look into her eye just in time and he thought better of
it, but she could see right away that she was going to have trouble.
Before they were out of the Square he was asking her what she thought
would be the right sort of Christmas present for a girl if you were
going to marry her but hadn’t broken it to her yet. The bother about
Jeff was that he made her angry—at least she supposed he did—but he
also made her want to laugh. Something about his impudent, lazy voice
and his impudent, lazy eyes. And of course quite too fatal to laugh. She
said in a nicely detached voice,

“Well, I don’t know—it would depend on the man, and on the girl.”

She heard him laugh.

“Helpful—aren’t you! What about a fur coat?”

Carey chilled the voice down.

“You can’t give a girl a fur coat unless you’re engaged to her—at least
not the sort of girl——”

“I’ve made a break—I told you I was liable to. The fur coat’s out.
Pity, because I’ve got the coupons for it and all. How much engaged do
we have to be?”

“Wedding-present engaged.”

“Well, that’s where it gets difficult. I suppose you’d say I’d got that
far, but she hadn’t. Of course the coupons will keep. What sort of fur
do you think would be best?”

“That would depend on the girl.”

“Well, take a blonde—people generally do take them, don’t they?”

Carey said sedately, “Fair girls are very lucky about furs. They can
wear all the kinds that make you look like a fiend if you’re dark.”

“As?”

“Squirrel, mole—sable, only practically nobody can afford it—I can’t
see who does.”

“I’ve got quite a lot of money. Didn’t you know?” Mr. Stewart’s slight
drawl had become more pronounced. “And my blonde is the platinum
sort—practically albino, except of course she hasn’t got pink eyes.”

“Then she’ll look hideous in anything. The less you spend the better.”

There was a pause, after which he said mournfully,

“I could always change her. It’s a pity I don’t like them dark. Of
course I could compromise and look out for something half and half—say
dark hair and blue eyes. What do you think about that?”

“I don’t have to think about it. It isn’t my business—is it?”

He said, “It might be.” He slipped his hand inside her arm and began to
laugh. “Carey—let me give you a coat.”

“Certainly not!”

“But I want to very badly.”

“That has nothing to do with it.”

“But it might have—you said so yourself. You said I could give a girl a
fur coat for a wedding present.”

Carey’s colour burned.

“I’m not having a wedding.”

“You might think about having one, and then we could go and choose the
coat.”

She detached herself.

“Now, Jeff Stewart——”

He looked at her solicitously.

“You didn’t finish that. Couldn’t you think of anything to say?”

He got an ominously sparkling glance.

“Plenty, but you’d better not make me say it. Now, are you going to talk
sense, or do I turn round and go home?”

“I talk sense. Here’s a first instalment. Have you taken a vow of
celibacy or anything like that?”

“Of course I haven’t!”

“Then would you like to think about marrying me?”

Carey stood still, jerked up her chin, and directed a repressive glance
at him. It didn’t seem to get there. She produced a reinforcement of
words.

“I’m not considering marrying anyone. And if you think I’m going to be
proposed to in the street, well, I’m not!”

“But I don’t ever see you alone except in the street,” he said in a
reasonable voice. “You don’t want me to propose to you in front of
Cousin Honoria and all the rest of them, do you?”

Carey stamped on a very hard pavement. Pins and needles ran up her leg,
but the moral effect was good.

“I don’t want you to propose to me at all!”

“But I have proposed to you. You don’t want me to take it back, do you?”

“I think I’m going home.”

He took her by the elbow.

“All right, all right—don’t get mad. We’ll call it off. What about
putting the fur coat in cold storage and getting down to buying a
handbag—what we call a purse. Could you use one?”

They walked on again. Looking down at the bag which, like herself, had
been damaged by enemy action and, unlike herself, would never be the
same again, she had a horrid suspicion that all this talk of blondes,
weddings, and fur coats, was so much Machiavellian overstatement in
order to undermine her resistance to being given an expensive handbag.

Whilst she was considering retaliatory measures Jeff’s voice began again
overhead.

“You know, you’ve got this proposal business all wrong. I’ve been
reading a lot since I came over—what you might call sound escapist
literature, all about how people lived before they started having
European wars—late nineteenth and early twentieth-century stuff. When
the girls in those books were proposed to they appreciated it—no
jibbing and saying they were going home. Even if they were going to come
back with the offer of being a sister to the fellow they did it as
kindly as they could. There were some nice blushes and a lot of pretty
remarks about its being an honour and they would always remember it and
hand it down as a sort of an heirloom.”

The corners of Carey’s mouth began to twitch. A lazy downward-glancing
eye may have perceived this. The voice overhead continued.

“I won’t say you didn’t blush. Maybe you did the best you could, but it
didn’t look right to me. It could easily have been mistaken for just
ordinary temper. These girls I was talking about, they had a kind of
melting look with it. Some of them got their eyes brimming over, and a
tear or two trickling down over the blushes.”

A wave of laughter broke through Carey’s guard. It wasn’t any good being
angry, and she wanted to enjoy herself.

She said, “Oh, Jeff—you _fool_!” and heard him chuckle.

They bought a bag, they lunched, they went to a show. They quarrelled
once or twice, and found it an exhilarating adventure. There were no
dull moments. No shadow of things to come lay across their path.




                                  VII


Jeff Stewart was out of town for the next few days. As a result Carey
was a good deal thrown with Dennis. Quite frankly, she enjoyed this very
much. He was a charming companion. His eyes said flattering things, but
his tongue only amusing ones. She could relax and be entertained without
having to worry about his taking several ells where she wasn’t prepared
to part with more than half an inch. It was nice to be admired without
being, so to speak, under any obligation. Jeff had to be staved off all
the time and kept in his place, with a constant back and forth struggle
going on as to just what that place should be. It was very exhausting,
and what made it worse was that deep down underneath she didn’t really
know how serious he was. He had that lazy way of saying things which
made them sound as if he was amused, and that lazy way of looking which
might be waiting to catch you out. Sometimes she wanted to get behind
what he sounded and looked like, and sometimes she didn’t. Because there
might be just a teasing cousinly fondness, or. . . . She never pursued
the alternative very far, but there had been times when a picture came
up in her mind of a lion she had seen as a child—a big drowsy beast
blinking lazily, a placid handsome creature half asleep. And then the
rattle of a stick in the hand of an adventurous boy—jab, rattle,
jab—and before the keeper could interfere, an enormous weight and
energy of rage hurled with a deafening roar against the bars.

Dennis would certainly never hurl or roar. It was very reposeful to be
sure of that. He liked her, he thought her easy to look at, and he
flirted with reassuring dexterity. No one who hadn’t had plenty of
practice could possibly do it so well. And it was being awfully good for
him.

On the third day Honoria Maquisten sent for her solicitor and was
closeted with him for a long time.

The audience terminated, tea was taken in, and in its wake the family
assembled by command—Robert Maquisten rather chafed and on his dignity,
Nora mutinous, Honor more like a white mouse than ever, Carey and Dennis
to bring up the rear.

As they neared the threshold, he whispered.

“Grand disinheriting scene—I don’t mind betting you that’s what we’re
in for. Robes of state, and all the diamonds. She always lumps them on
when she’s going to cut anyone out of her will.”

Nora looked back over her shoulder to make a face and say,

“That brocade she’s wearing was eight pounds a yard—she told me so
herself. I’d be a dream in it.”

Dennis said, “You’d better keep awake, darling, and well on the toes in
case this is going to be one of those ‘Fly, all is discovered’ events.”

She whisked round too quickly to betray a change of expression and
tugged at Robert’s arm.

“Hi, Bob—what’s your fancy? Have you got a crime up your sleeve? It
would be rather funny if we all had, and gave ourselves away.”

He sent her a repressive look which she seemed to find exhilarating.

From behind her Dennis said softly,

“Think up a good one, Honor darling.”

And then they were all trooping up and saying how do you do to Mr.
Aylwin. Carey saw a stout man with a rugged face and sandy hair mixed
with grey. He looked at her with interest as he shook hands.

“Julia’s granddaughter,” said the deep voice, introducing her.

“Just so. I am afraid I don’t remember her.”

“No—you would only be ten years old when she died.” She turned to
Carey. “Mr. Aylwin is a connection of yours as well as of mine. My
great-aunt, Harriet Harland, became his grandfather’s second wife.” Her
bright, penetrating glance moved on, resting in turn upon Robert,
Dennis, Nora, Honor, and Magda Brayle, who had come in from the other
side. “I wish to tell you all in front of Mr. Aylwin that I have added
Carey’s name to the beneficiaries under my will. I don’t wish anyone to
say that it was done in a hole-and-corner way, or as a result of undue
influence, or in weakness of intellect. If anyone has any doubt about my
being of sound mind, I’ll trouble them to say so now, and not go raising
hares and blackening my reputation and their own after I’m gone. There
are plenty of you here, so there are plenty of witnesses. If any of you
have got anything to say, you can say it.”

It was the most uncomfortable moment of Carey’s life. Her colour burned
and died, leaving her distressed and pale. She murmured something which
sounded like “Please, Cousin Honoria——” but the words were drowned by
Dennis’s laughter. He blew his aunt a kiss and said,

“Darling, how too dramatic! You do brighten things up, don’t you? Not a
dull moment!”

Mr. Aylwin gave him a look between tolerance and reproof, and turned to
say something in a low voice. Beyond the fact that it began with “My
dear Honoria,” no one but herself was any the wiser. She made very much
the same face as Nora had made at Dennis and sketched a gesture which
set all her rings making rainbows. Her voice mimicked his.

“My dear Mark! Sit down and have your tea. Magda, bring a cup of tea for
Mr. Aylwin. Nora, it’s your turn to pour out. It’s just as well—at
least you won’t drop the teapot if I shock you, and Honor probably
would. Well now, isn’t anyone going to speak? Remember, here’s your
opportunity. If you don’t take it, there won’t be anything doing
afterwards—Mark will see to that.”

Mr. Aylwin’s sandy eyebrows rose, but he made no further protest. Having
known Honoria Maquisten intimately for forty years, he was only too well
aware of the fact that opposition merely spurred her. If she meant to
have a scene, a scene she would have. He took his cup of tea from Magda,
sat down, and surveyed the baited family. Of them all, Robert showed the
most temper, and the most control. He glowered, but he had himself in
hand. He was older than the others—mature—a man with a business of his
own. Honoria shouldn’t—no, she really shouldn’t.

It was quite plain that Honoria was enjoying herself. The red curls
quivered and the diamonds flashed.

“Nobody got anything to say? What unanimity! Well then, if you’re all
quite satisfied you can say so. You’ve all got tongues. . . . Robert?”

He certainly had himself very well in hand. His voice couldn’t have been
bettered as he said,

“Isn’t this all a little unnecessary, Aunt Honoria? What you do with
your property is entirely your own affair. I hope you don’t think that
any of us would question that.”

Mrs. Maquisten bent a look of smiling malice upon him. If she had looked
like Nora a moment before, she now bore a startling resemblance to
Dennis.

“My dear Bob, that is a pious platitude. Did you really expect to get by
with it? What I am asking all of you, and at the moment you in
particular, is whether you are satisfied? Or not?”

His brows drew together.

“I couldn’t possibly answer a question like that.”

“And why not?”

He managed to smile.

“You have a perfect right to leave anything to anybody. That satisfies
me, and I think it ought to satisfy you.”

She nodded and said,

“Ingenious! You’re a good man of business. . . . Nora?”

Nora held the heavy teapot poised. Her eyes were as bright and hard as
Honoria Maquisten’s own.

“What do you want me to say—that you’re all there and on the spot? I’ve
never heard anybody doubt it.”

The eyes met in a glance that held and challenged like a meeting of
blades.

Dermis said, “Honours easy!”

Mrs. Maquisten nodded.

“Honor?”

Honor looked down, twisted bony fingers in her lap.

“Nothing to say? Swallowed your tongue?”

“There isn’t anything to say.” The words came in a shrinking whisper.

“Meaning you’re kind enough to agree that I can do what I like with my
own?”

“Yes.”

“Dennis?”

“Darling, need you ask?”

She said drily, “I don’t know that I need, but I do.”

He got up out of his chair, went over to her, and stood there leaning on
his crutch.

“You know, you are plagiarizing horribly. We seem to have wandered into
King Lear, and I suppose I’m Cordelia. I’ve always thought her the
world’s prize mutt, so I’ll give a completely original reading of the
part. In fact, darling, I think you’re the cat’s whiskers, and anything
you do is O.K. by me. With which virginal remarks I make my bow—or I
would if I wasn’t on a crutch—and invite the audience to applaud.”

Mr. Aylwin promptly clapped his hands.

“And now,” he said, “don’t you think, Honoria, that the curtain might
come down? Theatrical performances during meals are a little hard on the
digestion, and as you know, I am a passionate admirer of Mrs. Deeping’s
scones.”




                                  VIII


Nora whirled out of the house and was seen no more. This time apparently
it was Alan, not Jack, who was her escort. She passed Dennis and Carey
on the stairs and flung out the information with zest. Then she opened
her fur coat and pointed triumphantly to a large glittering emerald and
diamond crescent.

“How’s that for richness?”

Dennis whistled.

“How did you get away with it?”

She put out the tip of a pointed red tongue at him.

“She gave it to me just now—sent Ellen to get me and pressed it into my
hand. Aha!”

Dennis lifted an eyebrow.

“Everyone will think it’s Woolworth, or if they don’t you’ll be garotted
on the way home.”

She said, “Pouf!” and flicked two fingers at Carey. “It’s worth masses
more than the one she gave you, but you’ll probably get the rubies.
Competition in armaments! I wonder what Honor got. She was going in as I
came out. Poor old Den—you can’t even wear a diamond ring!
Bye-bye—have a nice time!”

Honor came creeping down after them, followed by Magda Brayle. As they
came into the dining-room, Carey had a momentary impulse towards
laughter. Honor in that hideous beige frock, the last colour on earth,
she ought ever to put anywhere near her, and, fastening the neck, one of
those frightful Victorian brooches like a gold pudding with stones stuck
in it for plums! The stones were red, and possibly valuable. Rubies?
Difficult to tell in all that gold, but she didn’t think so. Probably
carbuncles, in which case not valuable at all. All that really mattered
was that Honor was obviously as pleased as Punch. She fingered the
horrid thing, and was determined that everyone should notice it. Perhaps
the stones were really rubies. Perhaps she only thought they were.
Perhaps she was just pleased at having a present. The impulse to
laughter died. It was pathetic to see anyone so pleased with a heavy,
ugly thing like that.

Dennis looked at it and enquired candidly,

“Your share of the loot?”

“Aunt Honoria gave it to me just now.”

“Mrs. Maquisten is very generous,” said Magda Brayle.

Dennis laughed.

“She’s very clever—little sops all round to keep us from hating Carey.
I don’t know about Robert, but I got a cheque—quite a nice fat cheque.
Carey and I are dining out and doing a show on the strength of it
to-morrow.”

Honor looked under her pale eyelashes at Magda.

“You didn’t get anything? But of course you’re not one of the family.”

It was a bald statement of fact without apparent malice. Carey wondered.
Could you be so inept as that without meaning anything? She thought she
preferred Honor silent, though it got on your nerves a bit.

If Magda’s feelings were hurt, she did not allow it to appear.

“Mrs. Maquisten is always very kind,” she said.

Carey thought her colour rose a little. Perhaps it was this faint flush
that made her suddenly realize that Magda’s looks had possibilities. Her
features were good. A little darkening of the eyebrows, a touch of
lipstick, some colour in the cheeks, would do wonders for her. She
wanted colour. All that starchy whiteness, so becoming to most women,
just blotted her out. Colour, and the play of expression—if she had
these, she would be a very pretty woman.

“A penny for your thoughts,” said Dennis.

Carey blushed, and was laughed at.

Honor disappeared after dinner. Carey and Dennis spent a companionable
evening. They had reached the stage of intimacy at which you talk if you
want to, and sit silent if you have nothing to say or if what you would
like to say is not ready to put into words. She discovered that he sang
charmingly to the guitar.

“Pity Aunt Honoria doesn’t like music, or I might be able to sing my way
into being residuary legatee.”

Carey sat up straight.

“Don’t any of you ever talk or think of anything but Cousin Honoria’s
will?”

He smiled affably.

“Oh, sometimes—just to fill in odd moments.”

“Because it’s frightfully bad for you, and frightfully boring.”

He twanged a soft descending arpeggio.

“Boring? Oh, no, darling—we’re passionately interested. It’s the golden
link that binds us.”

“That’s what I mean. It’s horrid, and it’s dull.”

He shook his head.

“Not dull, my sweet. It combines a really good gamble with the
excitement of the chase. There’s only one thing that offers a bigger
thrill, and that is making love. Combine the three, and you have the
perfect situation.”

Carey looked at him with an odd little smile.

“You do like talking nonsense, don’t you?”

“That’s not nonsense—it’s a profession of faith. And I’m one of those
rare people who translates faith into works.”

“I suppose you know what you’re talking about. I don’t.”

“You will, darling. I’m leading tactfully up to the fact that now you
are an heiress I shall probably make love to you.”

Carey’s chin lifted.

“How kind!”

“Yes, isn’t it? I’m a little handicapped, but I can still put one foot
forward, and the wounded hero stunt is said to go down well. If I were
to come over faint, would you go down on your knees beside me?”

“No, I shouldn’t. I should call Magda.”

“A heart of stone! I must think again.”

“I’d much rather you went on singing.”

Rather to her surprise, he complied, and after a little put down the
guitar and took up a book. But when Carey got up to say good-night he
reached for his crutch and limped to the door with her. She thought he
was going to open it, but he stood there, looking at her and smiling.

“Pleasant dreams.”

“Thank you.”

“About me.”

“I see quite a lot of you in the day.”

His eyes held a spark of malice.

“There are several answers to that—but perhaps better not. Kiss me
good-night?”

“Certainly not!”

“I shouldn’t have asked, should I? What’s a girl to say? Be brave—it’s
quite painless!”

His hand came down on her shoulder, steadying him. You can’t step back
and let a cripple fall. Carey didn’t know whether she wanted to step
back or not. She ought to have known—she didn’t. She was pulled up
close and kissed. It was rather disquieting, but not at all unpleasant.
She gave a little laugh, and was kissed again.

“Dennis—I’m not a crutch!”

“All right—all over.” He let go of her. “Going on well?” He stepped
back from the door as he spoke and opened it.

Carey stood and tried to look severe.

“It wasn’t fair!”

“Wasn’t it?”

Something in his teasing look brought the colour flaming to her cheeks.
She said, “You know it wasn’t!” and ran out of the room.

His voice followed her, pleasant and cousinly for anyone to hear.

“Good-night, darling!”




                                   IX


It was in the evening that Honoria Maquisten gave her the brooch. Carey
had changed when she came in, and proceeded by order to the bedroom,
where Cousin Honoria sat in state by the fire robed in silver tissue
hemmed with fur, diamonds in her ears and at her throat, diamonds on the
long, thin fingers. None of the jewels were the same as she had worn
yesterday. Carey blinked at the splendour, and felt herself very sober
in her blue woollen house-gown. She sat obediently on a chair placed for
her by Ellen, who then retired, noiseless and lizard-like. She seemed
scarcely to open the door or to close it again, but since she was there
one minute and gone the next, it was reasonable to suppose that she had
done both.

With a feeling of discomfort it came to Carey that she had never been in
a house where people made so little noise. Cousin Honoria’s deep voice
and the jarring tap of Dennis’ crutch stood out against a curiously
muffled background. Of course curtains and carpets being so thick had
something to do with it. No, not something—everything. And then she
remembered Nora calling the house a tomb the night before and flinging
out of it with a banged door to break the silence.

Honoria Maquisten put a hand in a fur-trimmed pocket and held it out
with something on the palm.

“That’s a hideous garment you’ve got on—as much like a dressing-gown as
makes no difference. All the clothes are hideous nowadays, but at any
rate it’s long. I can’t get used to things above the knee in the
evening. And I won’t say the colour doesn’t suit you. I suppose you
matched your eyes. You’d better have this to cheer it up. I took a fancy
to it in a second-hand shop and bought it to give to Julia on her
twenty-first birthday a week before she died. It’s been put away for
fifty years. I’d like you to have it.”

Carey lifted the brooch from the thin, dry palm. Her feelings were
rather mixed. The word tomb cropped up again—it was like being given
something out of a tomb. But it was very kind, and she had never had
such a pretty brooch. Pleasure came to the top and stayed there. She put
the brooch against the blue stuff of her dress, and saw how the colour
deepened the big pale sapphire set round with small rose-diamond points.

“It’s lovely, Cousin Honoria.”

Mrs. Maquisten nodded.

“It looks nice on your frock and on you, but it isn’t worth
twopence—the sapphire is too pale. It’s just pretty—that’s all. I
suppose you’d rather have diamonds?” The sharp eyes were lively and
searching under quizzical brows.

Carey shook her head.

“Oh, no, I wouldn’t.”

“Why?”

“Well, what’s the good of diamonds when you’ve got your living to earn?”

Honoria Maquisten fingered her necklace.

“Do you mean to say you wouldn’t say thank you for this?”

Carey met her look with a laughing one.

“What would I do with it? I couldn’t wear it.”

“You could sell it.” The voice was dry and cold.

Carey flushed to the roots of her hair.

“_Please_, Cousin Honoria——”

There was a rainbow flash as a hand came out and patted her.

“There, child—I’d no business to tease you. Put on the brooch and give
me a kiss.”

Nora was at dinner, vivid and ornamental in emerald green.

“Got to match Aunt Honoria’s room,” she explained. “I don’t see why she
should have it all her own way, and it might stir her up to give me an
odd emerald or two. She’s got oodles of them.”

When Magda did not appear, Carey asked where she was, and was answered
by Dennis.

“Evening out. Only one of our rays of sunshine tonight. Honor darling,
be twice as sparkling as usual, won’t you. We don’t want our new cousin
to think us dull.” His eyes came back to Carey and dwelt, sparkling,
upon the sapphire brooch. “Where did you get the gewgaw?” Then, without
waiting for an answer, “Elementary, my dear Watson. Aunt Honoria has
begun to part—the thick end of the wedge.”

Carey said, “It belonged to my grandmother.”

“Meaning that Aunt Honoria didn’t give it to you—or that she did, but
it used to belong to your grandmother?”

“It used to belong to my grandmother.”

“A little disingenuous of you, darling.”

“Well, it isn’t your business,” said Nora.

Honor’s hand had gone up to the neck of her dress. There was no brooch
there. She said nothing. Her hand dropped into her lap again.

Carey laughed, partly because Honor gave her the creeps, and partly
because she didn’t see why Dennis should have it all his own way.

He shook his head at her reprovingly, his eyes bright and malicious.

“To-morrow it will probably be diamonds which didn’t belong to your
grandmother but were bought by Uncle James out of money made from
armaments in the last war. And then perhaps it will be cheques—or the
famous rubies. . . . Darling, don’t tell me you don’t know about the
rubies! Too, too unnaturally innocent of you! They’re marvellous, and
it’s been the tragedy of Aunt Honoria’s life that she’s never had the
nerve to wear them. The hair, you know. She won’t leave them to Nora for
the same reason, and I seem to remember her saying something rather
biting to Honor about what she would look like in them. Do you remember
what it was, my sweet?”

Honor kept her eyes on her plate and did not speak.

Nora said, “Come off it, Den!”

He caught Carey’s frowning gaze and laughed.

“I’ve had serious thoughts of swearing to marry a black-haired wench to
see if that would bring down the scales on my side. What are your views
about rubies?”

“I haven’t got any.”

“Just as well, because the original Latin proverb about woman being
variable was composed with a prophetic eye upon Aunt Honoria. Diamonds
today, rubies tomorrow, and nothing the next day. She’ll probably leave
the whole caboodle to Robert just because he’s got plenty without.”

It would have given Carey the greatest pleasure to throw something at
him—the salt cellar, a full glass of water—but she restrained herself.
She looked past Honor, who was eating fish a crumb at a time after the
manner of Amina in the Arabian Nights, and said scornfully,

“I can’t think why you bother about it. You’d all be much more
comfortable if you didn’t.”




                                   X


Jeff Stewart was kept busy out of London. He wrote most days, and
sometimes twice—funny scraps, not real letters at all. One was just,
“Honey, I wish I was back.” Some of the others weren’t much longer, but
there was one which affected her oddly—a long, serious letter all about
his job, the sort of letter he might have written to another man. It
gave Carey a queer jolted feeling, she couldn’t for the life of her tell
why. It might have been because the letter was dead serious and she
wasn’t prepared to take him seriously yet.

Meanwhile she was having the pleasantest time of her life. Cousin
Honoria was affectionate, Nora friendly, and Dennis the best of escorts.
He kept his word and made love to her in the most agreeable manner. It
was impossible to believe him serious, so her conscience did not bother
her at all. He amused himself and her, and when Jeff came back it would
be very, very good for both of them. The days of the second week slipped
by.

She had been at No. 13 for just a fortnight when Honoria Maquisten
showed her the rubies. It was quite a performance, and it did not begin
until she was satisfied that Magda Brayle was out of the way. She had
two hours off in the afternoon, and sometimes, at her own request or by
Mrs. Maquisten’s decree, the time was shifted. Once a week she went off
duty at six and took the evening out. On November 15th Mrs. Maquisten
sent her out at half-past five, telling her not to come back for a
couple of hours, and presently she sent Carey to see whether she was
gone. After which she reached up to the head of her bed and pressed the
bell which rang in Ellen’s room across the passage.

Then the performance began. Ellen was sent to rummage at the back of a
drawer and bring out a curious inlaid box. It was quite small, about
five inches by four, with different coloured woods inlaid to make a
pattern. Mrs. Maquisten gave it to Carey with a curt “Open it!” But
there wasn’t any opening. She turned it over and over, but it wasn’t
like any box she had ever seen, and there wasn’t an opening anywhere.
She looked up from it to find herself being laughed at.

“I can’t open it, Cousin Honoria.”

“No? I didn’t think you could. Give it to Ellen.”

Carey held it out, but there was no answering movement from the woman
beside her. Ellen stood with her hands together, huge knuckles
prominent, nails cut down to the quick, fingers not reddened but
bloodless, the forefinger very much pricked. She poked her head forward
like a tortoise coming out of its shell and said,

“I can’t open it either.”

Mrs. Maquisten turned a mocking look on her.

“Can’t you really?”

The small, cold eyes met sparkling hazel ones.

“You know very well I can’t open it.”

“So I do,” said Honoria Maquisten. “Well, give it to me!” She took the
box, and with one of her rapid movements twisted it, and parted her
hands again with a piece of the box in each. A little brass key fell
between them upon the green coverlet. “There you are, Ellen—open the
safe!” She turned to Carey. “You’re privileged, my dear. Of course they
all know I’ve got a safe somewhere in my room. At least I suppose they
do, but they don’t know where it is, and they’ve never seen it open. No
one ever has except Ellen.”

Carey felt dreadfully uncomfortable.

“But Cousin Honoria——”

“Don’t be a goose, my dear! If I choose to trust you it’s my own
affair—you needn’t let on to the others.”

Ellen stood there hostile, the key in her hand.

“It’s Mr. Robert you should trust, or Mr. Dennis,” she said—“not those
that haven’t been in the house no more than a fortnight. All right, you
needn’t look at me like that—I know my place! If everyone did, it would
be all the better, but there’s some that don’t and never will.”

Honoria Maquisten said incisively,

“That’s quite enough, Ellen. Get on with it!”

The grumbling continued, but almost inaudibly. Carey could see the old
woman’s lips moving as she turned away and went round to the far side of
the bed. When she passed out of sight behind the green and silver
curtain, Mrs. Maquisten put out a hand and slid it back, but it went no
farther than to admit a view of Ellen’s black dress and the knob of hair
at the back of her head.

“The safe,” said Mrs. Maquisten, “is there in the wall. A bit of the
panelling slips away. I’ll show you how it works some day when I’m up.”
She dropped her voice to an exasperated murmur. “Ellen’s a jealous old
pig. Don’t take any notice. I’ll put it across her when I’ve got her
alone.”

There was the click of a turning key and a swishing sound as if a door
had fallen back against the brocade of the curtain. The little brass
rings up under the canopy tinkled. Ellen’s head came round the pleated
folds, mouth puckered up, eyes cold and bright among disapproving
wrinkles.

“What were you wanting?”

“I want the rubies. You know that perfectly well.”

“And how was I to know when you never said a word?”

Mrs. Maquisten laughed.

“Didn’t I? Well then, I say it now. Rubies, Ellen—rubies for Miss
Carey!”

Ellen’s eyelids came half down over her eyes. Through the slits
something looked out, as malevolent as a snake.

Carey kept her feet firmly where they were, but she would have liked to
step back—even with the width of the great bed between them she would
have liked to step back. She wasn’t going to, of course, but wanting to
do it made her angry. What did it matter to her how the cross old
tortoise looked?

The cross old tortoise turned away, but slowly—slowly. Carey felt a
little cold, a little sick. She was reminded horribly of the way a
reptile moves. Once, by a pond, she had seen a snake asleep and watched
it wake like that with a slow, sluggish motion, the head first and then
the coils, until suddenly it was gone, like the lash of a whip, like
water running. And then she had to laugh at herself. Tortoise or snake,
she couldn’t see Ellen running.

Honoria Maquisten patted her hand.

“They’re pretty. You’ll like them,” she said.

Carey had a blank moment before she remembered that they were waiting to
see the rubies. And then Ellen was setting faded red morocco cases
out—a very large case, two round ones, and a lot of others, all with
C.M. upon the lids in Gothic letters from which the gold had almost
vanished. Mrs. Maquisten pressed the spring, threw back the lid of the
largest case, and displayed a Victorian necklace with a design of
diamond bows and fleurs-de-lis with half a dozen enormous rubies
embedded in the pattern. She gazed at them with a passionate admiration
which Carey felt quite unable to share. The rubies were a lovely colour,
and the diamonds made rainbows about them, but what in a modern world
could you do with a thing which must be almost as hard and heavy to wear
as a drawing-room fender?

“Lovely stones—aren’t they? They belonged to James’s mother. The old
man paid a fortune for them. She was a good-looking woman—dark, with a
fine bust. Nobody’s got anything to prop a necklace up on now. People
knew how to show off their jewels in the eighties. I’ve never worn them,
you know, because of my hair, but I’ve wanted to, even though I knew I’d
be a figure of fun if I did.” A ruminating, confidential tone came into
her voice. “It’s a funny thing, but I don’t believe there’s a red-haired
woman breathing who doesn’t hanker after wearing crimson and pink. It’s
a regular craving, and I’ve never given way to it like some of them do,
but oh, how I’ve wanted to—you’d never believe it! And the rubies are
the worst temptation of all. I’d almost have dyed my hair to wear them,
but I believe James would have divorced me. I used to plan dresses to
wear them with—ruby velvet with a yard of train, dead plain and just
the colour of the stones.”

Carey couldn’t help it. She said, “Oh, Cousin Honoria!” And all at once
Honoria Maquisten was grinning at her like a schoolboy.

“Sets your teeth on edge, doesn’t it? Well, it ought to set mine, but it
don’t.”

She opened the two round cases and showed matching bracelets nearly two
inches wide, alternate bows and fleurs-de-lis with rubies set between;
Carey had to put them on. They looked garish but rather exciting against
the sapphire blue of her dress.

“You girls can’t be bothered to show your arms in the evening
now—nothing but long sleeves. Skinny elbows and bony wrists that won’t
bear showing—that’s about the size of it.”

Carey laughed, and handed the bracelets back.

A corsage ornament came next, three square rubies entangled in more
diamond bows; a couple of brooches, one with a design of fleurs-de-lis,
the other an enormous bow draped round a ruby; three rings, solitaire,
half-loop, and marquise; and, the one thing Carey really liked, a
charming slender necklet with single diamonds and three diamond-circled
rubies.

“Pretty, isn’t it? Put it on and look at yourself in the glass. The big
necklace makes into a tiara, and when she wore it that way she used this
light necklet. Of course it ought to be on your neck and not over a
stuff dress, but put it on.”

The diamond chain sparkled against the blue, the rubies hung down low.
The effect was ridiculous but rather charming—Carey’s hair so black and
shining, her skin so white, the eyes that matched her dress, her mouth
that repeated the colour of the rubies.

She came back to the bed, pleased and smiling. Honoria Maquisten smiled
too.

“I’m leaving them to you, Carey.”

“Oh, no!”

“Oh, yes, my dear.”

All this time Ellen had been standing on the other side of the bed, her
hands folded at her waist, her face without expression, her eyes hooded.
She opened them now, poked her head forward, and said,

“Miss Carey’s in the right of it.”

Mrs. Maquisten reproved her in a perfunctory manner which bespoke long
practice.

“Hold your tongue, Ellen!”

Ellen pursed her lips and repeated the remark.

“Miss Carey’s in the right of it. Mrs. Maquisten’s they were, and it’s
to Mr. Robert’s wife they did ought to go.”

Carey lifted the necklet over her head and dropped it on the bed.
Honoria Maquisten took no notice of it or of her. She did not turn her
head in Ellen’s direction, but she addressed her indifferently.

“Mr. Robert hasn’t got a wife.”

Ellen tossed her head.

“That’s not to say he won’t never have one, is it?”

Mrs. Maquisten laughed.

“And it’s not to say I’d want to give her my rubies if he had. Perhaps I
shouldn’t like her.”

“Then you should let Miss Honor have them. They come from Maquistens,
and you didn’t ought to leave them out of the family.”

Carey said, “_Please_, Cousin Honoria——” and saw a flare of temper
send up danger signals to burn in Honoria Maquisten’s cheeks. Curiously
enough, the colour made her look old, accentuating the cheek-bones,
giving the effect of patchy make-up. In a voice edged with anger she
said,

“Keep quiet, both of you! When I want advice I’ll ask for it; and when I
want a sermon, Ellen, I’ll tell you. Put the things away and be done
with it!”

Then, as Ellen went round to the safe again, she caught at Carey’s hand
and held it against her cheek for a moment.

“Proud, obstinate creature.”

Carey nodded. She had to bite her lip to keep back a smile. All at once
it beat her.

Honoria Maquisten smiled too, and said in mock reproof,

“Pride goes before a fall, Carey.”




                                   XI


November 16th was like any other November day—a dark reluctant morning,
a touch of fog in the heavy air, the disintegrating damp and cold which
mark the slow decay of autumn. There was nothing to single it out. Yet
it was a day whose shadow was to stretch a long, long way. No one in the
house would ever see the date again without an inward shudder and
recoil. It began pleasantly enough. Nora went off gaily to drive her
general. Honor departed to pack parcels, and as Dennis remarked, that
cleared the air. And presently, after some time spent with Cousin
Honoria, Carey and he went out to lunch together.

It is from lunch-time onwards that the shadow begins to fall across the
day, darkening and confusing its happenings. Some points emerge beyond
dispute. Molly James, passing through the hall, saw a letter lying on
the mat just inside the front door, the metal cage originally in use
having been given in for salvage. She picked it up, saw that it had no
stamp, and that it was addressed to Mrs. Maquisten. She went upstairs
with it, knocked at the bedroom door, and took it in. She puts the time
at between a quarter and half past two. On her way back to the door Mrs.
Maquisten called her with a dreadful voice. In all the times she had to
tell her story Molly never varied from this word—Mrs. Maquisten’s voice
was dreadful, and she looked dreadful too. She asked if either of her
nieces was in, and Molly said that they were not. Then she asked for Mr.
Harland, and Molly said he was out to lunch. Last of all she asked for
Miss Carey, and Molly said she was out too. Then Mrs. Maquisten said,
“Tell her to come to me the minute she comes in,” and Molly said, “Yes,
ma’am,” and got herself out of the room as quick as she could go. She
told Mrs. Deeping not once but many times that she was glad to be the
other side of the door—“And somebody’s going to catch it—you see if
they don’t. I wouldn’t be Miss Carey.”

Carey came home at a quarter to three. She wore a blue coat with a faint
over-check of green and black buttoned right up to her chin, and a small
tilted blue hat with a bright green quill. Her eyes shone and her cheeks
glowed. Lunch had been very amusing. Dennis had been very amusing. Life
was very amusing. She ran up the steps of No. 13 and let herself in with
the latchkey which Cousin Honoria had given her. She was humming a tune.
And then Molly was telling her that she was wanted at once, and she
stopped humming and ran upstairs, a little disquieted, a little dashed
from her morning brightness.

Since Honoria Maquisten did not live to give any account of the
interview which followed, it rests upon what Carey said about it
afterwards, and upon what Magda Brayle overheard. What is not in dispute
is that Mrs. Maquisten was in a state of excitement and anger, and that
she ordered Carey to ring up Mr. Aylwin and command his immediate
attendance with a view to altering her will. That Carey demurred is
certain. The loud, deep voice was raised and the command repeated. There
is really no difficulty in believing that Magda, in the bathroom beyond
the communicating door, could hear not only that command but a good deal
more. In the end Carey rang up Mr. Aylwin’s office, to be told that he
was out of town for a couple of days. With the receiver still at her
ear, she turned to repeat the information. She met blazing eyes and an
imperious look.

“Ask where he is! He must come back!”

The telephone muttered. Carey turned again.

“They say he’s in Scotland. He won’t be back till late to-morrow night.”

Honoria Maquisten beat with her hand upon the bed.

“You think you can get me to put it off, do you? But you can’t—nobody
can! Who are you talking to? Ask for the managing clerk, Mr. Hood! Tell
him to come round at once! At once, I say! And he’s to bring my last
will with him—the one I signed the other day!”

The message delivered, Carey turned again.

“That was Mr. Hood speaking. He says he will come round as soon as he
can, but your will is in the safe and Mr. Aylwin has the keys.”

All this conversation could be heard in the office, and is not in
dispute. Carey rang off, and after a little went up to her room to take
off her things. It was then about ten past three.

Ernest Hood arrived, and was shown up to Mrs. Maquisten’s room at half
past three. He remained for about half an hour.

At half past four Nora Hull ran in for a cup of tea, leaving her car
outside. She was in a hurry as she had to take General Ferguson out of
town and they both hoped to be back in reasonable time for dinner—“He’s
just round the corner seeing another brass hat, and I’m to pick him up
in twenty minutes, so you’ll have to fly, Molly.” To which Molly replied
that tea was just going in to Mrs. Maquisten’s room, and that Mrs.
Maquisten wanted to see either Mrs. Hull or Miss Honor, whichever came
in first—“And I was to say it was very particular.”

Twenty minutes later Nora banged out of the house again. She had
certainly drunk at least one cup of tea, but neither she nor Mrs.
Maquisten had eaten anything.

Carey had a cup of tea in the study, and found it bitter to her taste.
She heard Nora’s noisy departure—“Gosh, I’ll be late!”—and the slam of
the door, and a little later on a much quieter opening of the same door,
and Molly, evidently on the watch—“Oh, Miss Honor, will you please go
up to Mrs. Maquisten at once.”

She heard these things because she had set the door ajar to listen for
Dennis. But it was not till six o’clock that Dennis came home.

Carey had meant to go out to him, but when the moment came she couldn’t
do it. She had waited too long, the shadow lay too heavy on her. She was
tired, and cold, and frightened. She heard him cross the hall with his
limping step, and then the slow tap of his crutch moving from step to
step as he went up the stairs.

It was nearly half past six before he came down again.

“Well, well——” he said, and then he let himself down into his chair
with a twisted smile. He got his foot up on to the leg-rest, dropped his
crutch on the floor, and said, “Some shemozzle! You look battered,
darling. We don’t take them as seriously as that, you know. She’ll calm
down.”

“Is she any better?”

He laughed.

“Not noticeably. What did she say to you?”

Carey pressed her hands together.

“She sent for me. Molly said she had a letter, but I don’t know what was
in it, or who it was from. When I got there she was all worked up. She
said she had been deceived, and that was the one thing she never could
forgive, and I was to ring up Mr. Aylwin and tell him to come round at
once because she was going to alter her will. I tried to soothe her down
and get her to wait, but she simply wouldn’t listen. I was afraid she
would make herself ill, so I did it. But Mr. Aylwin is in Scotland, so
then she said she would have Mr. Hood, and he came round and was there a
long time—at least it seemed like a long time.”

“Have you seen her since?”

“No. Nora came in and had tea with her. And then Honor, and she saw her
too. That was after Nora went out again. What did she say to you just
now?”

“The same as she said to you—someone had deceived her, and she was
going to put it across them. Theme with variations. All very
temperamental and not at all what the doctor would order. And right in
the middle of it Magda had to come in and say of course she couldn’t
take her evening, Mrs. Maquisten was so upset. And then the fur did
begin to fly. She told Magda just where she got off—said Ellen had put
her to bed for thirty-five years and she supposed she could do it again,
and if there was another word about it, Magda could take herself off for
keeps. I think she’d have loved to knock up a row, but Magda stayed
perfectly calm—the triple shield of starch. It emerged that she thought
Aunt Honoria ought to have a sleeping-draught after all the excitement,
and she thought she ought to be in to give it to her. She doesn’t like
taking anything, but if she gets too excited she’s supposed to take
these tablets—only she can’t swallow them, or she thinks she can’t,
which comes to the same thing, so they have to be melted down, and she
takes them in coffee, with a dash of brandy to take away the taste.
Well, I said, ‘Look here, you’re making no end of a song and dance about
this. What’s wrong with your putting the stuff ready and Ellen can give
it to her?’ I could see Aunt Honoria was mad keen to get Magda out of
the way. She’s working up for a major family scene and she wants a free
hand and no eavesdropping.” He paused, shifted his position, grimacing
as if the movement jarred him, and said sharply, “Did she tell you who
she was cutting off with a shilling?”

“No, she didn’t.”

“No hint—nothing to guess on?”

“No.”

“Nor she did to me—just raged and said they’d be sorry they’d ever been
born.”

“Did she say _they_?”

“Yes. But not meant plural—meant to avoid saying he or she. At least
that’s the way I took it. And you’ll see she won’t say anything to the
others either—not to whoever it is, or anyone. She’ll just leave us all
to simmer, searching our consciences and shaking in our shoes, wondering
which of our sins has found us out, and then she’ll stage a grand scene
of repudiation.” He laughed a little. “She’s deep. I wouldn’t put it
past her to be fishing for a confession. Rattle people enough, and they
do confess, you know. And wouldn’t it be meat and drink to her if we
trooped up one by one and each got a different confession off our
chests——” He broke off abruptly and asked, “When will Aylwin be back?”

“To-morrow night.”

“Then I should think she’d wait for him. But I don’t know—she’s feeling
very fierce, and there’s nothing she hates like waiting. She told me
Ernest Hood had gone away with the draft of her new will, and he was to
get it all ship-shape and bring it back tomorrow for her to sign. That
looks as if she wasn’t going to wait. Of course she might sign the will
and keep the terms up her sleeve until she could get Aylwin round to
assist at the execution of the criminal. She likes a good full house
when she puts on one of her acts.”

Carey said, “Do you mean she’s done it before?”

He burst out laughing.

“My innocent child! Of course she’s done it before, and of course she’ll
do it again, dozens of times! But it all depends on just what the
criminal has done this time, and that is what only the criminal knows.
You see, Aunt Honoria goes up in the air with such energy that you can’t
tell whether the thing that has touched her off is dynamite, or a
harmless household match. Up to now it has always been much ado about
nothing and no harm done—the legacy that came out goes back and harmony
reigns. But there’s always the chance of some real live dynamite. You
never know, do you?”




                                  XII


Nora rushed in again, and dined without changing. Honor came down
looking scared, and whenever Molly was out of the room, and sometimes
when she was in it, they went on talking about Mrs. Maquisten and the
approaching family scene. Carey said as little as possible, and Honor
more or less confined herself to saying at intervals how dreadful it
was, but Dennis and Nora carried on a brisk and uninhibited interchange
of views as to the identity of the culprit and the nature of the crime.

“She didn’t give you any clue? Honor, my sweet, bring the great mind to
bear on what the Aunt said to you.”

Honor drooped and said, “Oh, no, it was dreadful.”

“How do you mean, dreadful?” Dennis said through a mouthful of fish.

But it was Honor who choked.

“She was so angry.”

“I expect she still is,” said Nora cheerfully. “What did she say?”

Honor took a small sip of water.

“She said she had been deceived.”

“And you wouldn’t deceive anyone for worlds, darling!” said Dennis.
“None of us would—would we? But go on—was there any clue as to who had
been deceiving her this time?”

“Oh, no—there wasn’t.”

“Did she say anything to you, Nora?”

“Only the same piece everyone else got—no clue. I plump for Robert.”

Everyone brightened. Dennis said,

“What do you suppose he’s done?”

“Embezzled. It’s always the frightfully respectable people who embezzle.
And the letter was to tell Aunt Honoria about it.”

“Who wrote it?”

“Ask Aunt Honoria!”

Dennis leaned both elbows on the table.

“I call that a rotten guess. I say it’s bigamy.”

“_Robert?_”

“It’s always the most unlikely people who are bigamists.”

To everyone’s surprise Honor lifted her light lashes and said in a
wavering whisper,

“Perhaps it’s Fifth Column——”

Dennis’s lips twisted.

“Oh, no—you must draw the line somewhere. My family pride draws it
quite firmly at Fifth Column.”

Nora began to sing in a pretty, light voice:

    “‘But family pride must be denied
     And set aside and mortified
     And mor-or-or-or-ortified.’”

Dennis said, “Shut up! You haven’t got the tune right anyway. And she’d
have been a lot worse if it had been anything like that. No, it will be
some paltry trifle like bigamy, barratry, or mayhem.”

Still in that quavering whisper, Honor said,

“What are they?”

“Bigamy, darling, is marrying two wives at one time. I haven’t an idea
what the others are, but they sound good.”

Honor looked as if she was going to cry.

“They sound dreadful,” she said, and took another sip of water whilst
Molly removed the fish.

Downstairs in the kitchen she told Mrs. Deeping, “They’re carrying on
something chronic, just as if it was all a joke—him and Miss Nora. I’ll
say that for Miss Carey, she don’t join in. And Miss Honor, she sits
there and doesn’t eat anything you can call eating—just a pick here and
a pick there, and pushing it about on her plate.”

Mrs. Deeping looked as severe as her plump, good-natured face allowed.

“You get this pudding up whilst it’s hot, and don’t go passing remarks
about what you hear in the dining-room to anyone else but me! Miss
Honor’s been timid from a child, and Mr. Dennis he didn’t ought to tease
her the way he does. But there—he’ve got his troubles like the rest of
us. When I hear that crutch of his and think how he used to go tearing
up the stairs four steps at a time—wild as hawks he and Miss Nora was,
and that full of spirits you couldn’t hold them—it’s all I can do not
to cry. So if he can get a bit of fun out of anything I’m not the one to
grudge it, and it’s none of your business.”

“No, Mrs. Deeping,” said Molly with her eyes as round as saucers.

When she put the pudding down in front of Dennis he began to ask her
about the letter.

“It came by hand?”

“I don’t know.”

“Well, was there a stamp on it?”

“Oh, no, Mr. Dennis.”

“How was it addressed?”

“‘Mrs. Maquisten.’”

“Nothing else?”

“No, Mr. Dennis.”

“Then it must have come by hand. Did you see anyone coming up to the
door or going away?”

“Oh, no. It was lying just inside on the mat—put in through the letter
slit.”

“You don’t know how long it had been there?”

“No, Mr. Dennis.”

“Molly, think! Did you know the writing?”

She stood there looking confused, shaking her head.

“Was it like any writing you have seen before on a letter to Mrs.
Maquisten?”

“Oh, no, Mr. Dennis.”

“Would you know it again?”

Molly brightened.

“Oh, yes! It was ever so straight up and down, and as clear as print.”

Whilst he helped the pudding, and before Molly was out of the room, he
and Nora were hard at it discussing handwritings and the possible
authorship of the letter.

“You see, if we know who wrote it—a dirty dog if ever there was one,
and I hope someone plays the same trick on him or her—we can make a
pretty good guess at which of us is for it, and we can be thinking up an
extenuating circumstance or so. Darling”—he turned to Carey—“you were
the first to see her after the blow. Are you quite sure she didn’t say
anything about the letter?”

“No, she didn’t, Dennis.”

“Did you see it?”

She shook her head.

“No.”

“Where was she—in bed?”

Carey said, “Yes.” She had a picture in her mind of Honoria Maquisten
sitting up very straight, with a deep colour of anger in her face, and
eyes that went through and through you. Her own colour failed, leaving
her noticeably white.

“I expect she’d got it tucked under her pillow,” said Nora. “She won’t
get rid of it, because she’s got to bring it out when she starts
throwing aspersions.”

She and Dennis continued to discuss the letter with zest.

Suddenly Honor looked up again and said,

“Perhaps Ellen knows——”

Dennis turned his charming smile upon her.

“Clever, aren’t you, my sweet? Of course none of us would think about
that! But she doesn’t know any more than the rest of us. You see, I
asked her.”

“But I’ll tell you who will know,” said Nora, “and that’s Ernest Hood.
Let’s ring him up and ask him.”

“Too late—he’ll have gone home hours ago. Besides she needn’t have told
him. As a matter of fact I don’t believe she has.”

“Then how could he draw up a new will?”

“Quite easily. She could make him put down all the legacies and leave
the names to be filled in afterwards when she signed.”

Nora stared, her eyes quite round like a kitten’s. “What made you think
of that, Den?”

“Just something she said. . . . No, I can’t remember what it was—in
fact it wasn’t anything, and that’s why I can’t remember it. I just got
the impression that she was keeping everything under her hat until the
last moment, and then we were all going to get a surprise. Besides she’s
done it before.”

It was at this point that Molly came in and said in an alarmed voice
that Mrs. Maquisten was ringing her bell, and please would they all go
up.

Nora sprang from her chair.

“Gosh—I’ll have to change! She’ll massacre me if I show up in uniform.
Honor, she hates that thing you’ve got on worse than poison. Better come
up too. Put on the blue she gave you. It won’t take you a second, and
it’s no good asking for trouble. Carey, go on up like an angel and hold
the fort.”

With profound reluctance Carey went. Going slowly up the stairs, she
heard Dennis’s voice from the hall, reassuringly casual.

“She won’t eat you—and I’ll be up in no time.”

All the same, the reassurance had rather ebbed away before she came to
knock on the bedroom door. She bit her lip, and felt a light dew damp
her temples and the palms of her hands.

She opened the door and went in. It was somehow a relief that Ellen was
there, and that Cousin Honoria was out of bed sitting up in her chair
beside the fire. She wore a wrap that Carey had not seen
before—multi-coloured brocade on a gold and silver ground, very
magnificent. She wore the pearls, and, amongst all her diamonds, a
brooch with a black pearl at the centre, and a ring with a black pearl
between two enormous brilliants. The picture served to dim the other
picture which she had carried about with her since the afternoon—Cousin
Honoria sitting up in her bed with that terrible flush on her face. It
had gone now. She was speaking to Ellen when Carey came in. Ellen tossed
her head and said in her muttering way,

“Here’s the first of them, and if you ask me, you’d be better laying in
your bed and quieting yourself down.”

Mrs. Maquisten’s eyebrows rose.

“I don’t remember asking you, Ellen.” And then suddenly she clenched her
fist and brought it down with a bang on the arm of the chair. “You’ll
hold your tongue, and you’ll do what you’re told! And so will the rest
of them while I’ve got breath in my body!”

Carey had a shrinking thought. “Queen Elizabeth—that’s who she’s
like—when she was old—the long face, and the red hair, and all those
jewels.”

Ellen passed her and went out of the room, but a little later it opened
again to admit Honor, her lank fair hair rumpled by the haste with which
she had pulled the blue dress over it, the dress itself awry, hitched up
so that it showed a finger’s breadth of washed-out petticoat. Dennis
came next, the tap of his crutch sounding along the passage. And two or
three minutes later, Nora, freshly lipsticked, freshly powdered, her
copper curls shining. She wore her emerald dress, the emerald and
diamond brooch pinned carefully on.

After her outburst Mrs. Maquisten had been calmer. The flush had faded
from her face. The clenched hands were relaxed.

Molly brought in the coffee tray and set it down on the table which
Ellen had put ready. Honor slipped nervously into her place behind it,
and was grateful that Dennis, leaning against the mantelpiece and
looking down into the fire, should to some extent screen her from Aunt
Honoria. For once he was quite silent, his eyes fixed on the glowing
coal. Nobody spoke. Nora hovered for a moment and then walked up to the
tray and stood there. Carey was left sitting a good deal nearer the
presence than she would have chosen. Honoria Maquisten set a steady gaze
upon her, shifting it to Nora, to Honor, to Dennis. The silence went on.

In the end it was Dennis who broke it, straightening up and coming over
to drop down into his usual chair.

“Well, darling,” he said, “here we all are. Are you going to scold us?”

The tension relaxed. Honor began to pour out the coffee, her hand no
more unsteady than usual.

Mrs. Maquisten said, “No—not tonight.” The ring had gone out of her
voice. It sounded flat and tired. After a moment she said the words
again—“Not tonight.”

Nora looked round over her shoulder.

“Coffee, Aunt Honoria?”

Mrs. Maquisten appeared to rouse herself.

“Yes, I’ll have a cup. I’ve to take some wretched sleeping-draught or
other, I believe, but that’s no reason why I shouldn’t have a decent cup
of coffee as well.”

Honor, usually dumb, chose this moment to produce a remark.

“Oh, but won’t it keep you awake?”

The deep voice recovered its tone. The eyebrows rose.

“I should have thought that was my affair, not yours, Honor.”

Carey thought, “How frightful! How long is she going to keep us here?
How completely senseless Honor is!”

From where she stood beside the tray Nora turned and said,

“How will you have it, Aunt Honoria—black—white—saccharine—sugar?”

Mrs. Maquisten tapped her knee, impatient fingers beating out an
impatient measure and all the rings flashing.

“I said a decent cup of coffee.”

Nora smiled ingratiatingly.

“Meaning?”

“Milk and sugar and a dash of brandy. But I’ll have the sleeping-draught
first, and then the other to take away the taste. Magda has left it all
ready. You’d better ring for Ellen.”

When Ellen came in it was perfectly plain that she was in her most
forbidding temper. Since the afternoon she had changed out of her
woollen dress into a tight funereal garment of black artificial silk
fastened at the neck with a horrible brooch containing plaits of human
hair. Having shut the door a little more loudly than was necessary, she
crossed the room to stand at Mrs. Maquisten’s side without taking the
slightest notice of anyone else.

Honoria Maquisten continued to tap out that impatient tune.

“I’ll have my sleeping-draught. Nurse left it ready, didn’t she? I’ll
have it now, whilst the coffee is hot.”

Ellen poked her head.

“I don’t hold with sleeping-draughts. I’ll bring you a nice hop pillow.
Good enough to make anyone sleep, that is—and a heap better for you.”

At the familiar grumble Mrs. Maquisten relaxed. Ellen was an
insubordinate old wretch who wanted putting in her place. After
thirty-five years the game was still being played, and honours were just
about easy. No satisfaction in quarrelling with people who flattened
out. Ellen was cross and Ellen was tiresome, but Ellen was faithful, and
above all Ellen wasn’t afraid of her. The old spark leapt to her eyes.

“A nice hop pillow—that’s what you want.”

“When I do I’ll tell you.”

“And my grandmother, she said to put in a bunch of all the other ’erbs
you could lay hands on, and that’s the way I always done mine.”

“I want my sleeping-draught. You know where it is—on the bathroom
shelf.”

“How should I know? I don’t hold with sleeping-draughts! And my
grandmother said, ‘You dry them all together three days between
Midsummer and Lammas and stuff your pillow good and full, and it’ll last
you years.’”

Mrs. Maquisten burst out laughing.

“Ellen—you old wretch! I wouldn’t be seen dead in the same bed with
your hop pillow! And I want my sleeping-draught before the coffee gets
cold.”

“Then someone else can get it for you, for I don’t hold with it! There’s
Miss Nora that runs up and down the stairs like a mad thing, and it
isn’t what a young married woman ought to do. And there’s Miss Carey
that you’ve been so taken up with. Let one of them fetch it if you’re
set on taking it! I’m not giving you any sleeping-draughts—not tonight
nor any other time! What’s that nurse for if it isn’t to do her work?
And whose work is it, giving sleeping-draughts and suchlike? It wasn’t
what I was engaged for!”

“Ah——” said Honoria Maquisten. It was not so much a word as a
long-drawn sigh. “I didn’t need them then, did I?”

They might have been alone. Ellen’s face twitched. She said in a softer
tone,

“You take and have the hop pillow, my dear.”

The intimate moment passed, slipping away like water. Honoria Maquisten
was laughing again.

“You and your hop pillow! Be off with you, you old villain! I’ll be
giving you notice one of these days. Carey—go and get me the
medicine-glass off the bathroom shelf!”

Carey was glad enough to go. The sooner the sleeping-draught was taken,
the sooner this horrible evening would be over.

As she opened the connecting door and switched on the light she could
hear Ellen’s grumbling voice going away down the room behind her,
dwindling to a mutter, ceasing at the sound of the closing door.

The bathroom, which lay between Cousin Honoria’s bedroom and the one
occupied by Magda Brayle, connected with each. There was also a door to
the passage. With the exception of these doors, which were painted to
match, the walls were covered with pale green tiles with a pattern of
storks and water-lilies let in among them. There was a green bath, and a
green hand-basin with a shelf over it. And right in the middle a
medicine-glass rather more than half full of cloudy water.

Carey picked up the glass and came back into the room, clicking out the
light and shutting the door behind her. Mrs. Andrews had been fussy
about lights, so that she was very well trained.

“There’s a flask on the table by my bed,” Honoria Maquisten called over
her shoulder. “Bring it here! I’ll put in the brandy myself for a
change—Magda scrimps it. And now take the glass over to Honor, and see
that she puts in a lump of sugar as well as the coffee and milk! And
bring a spoon!”

A feeling of relief began to spread. The party was nearly over, and
nobody had been shot to pieces.

Carey took the glass over to the table and returned with it again.
Honoria Maquisten stirred it, put in as much brandy as there was room
for, stirred it again, and drank it off. Then she handed the glass to
Carey and told her to put it back on the shelf—“Magda can wash it when
she comes in. It’s her job.”

But Carey waited to wash the glass. That was one of the things that came
out afterwards.

When she came back Mrs. Maquisten was sipping her decent cup of coffee
with enjoyment. Nora was saying something, but whatever it was it never
got finished, for Mrs. Maquisten suddenly rested her cup and saucer on
her knee and said harshly and directly,

“That is enough about that! You are all here now, and I wish to speak to
you. You can sit down, Nora. Carey, come round where I can see you!
Honor, stop fidgeting!”

Dennis turned his smile upon her.

“What am I to do, darling?”

Their eyes met—hazel eyes, so very much alike, dominant anger in hers,
something that resisted and would always resist in his, with a smile to
cover it.

She said in what for her was a low tone, “Be quiet, Dennis.” Then,
raising it, “I want to speak to you.”

But she did not speak at once. She let an unendurable silence fall.
Honor had been fiddling with a coffee-spoon. She still held it between
her fingers, but without any movement. Her eyes were fixed upon it.
Nobody moved. The silence went on.

At long last Honoria Maquisten broke it. She said,

“You will all be here to-morrow at a quarter to two—here, in this room.
I accept no excuse from anyone.” She turned her eyes on Nora. “It will
come into your lunch hour. If necessary, you will plead very urgent
private affairs.” Her look travelled on, touching them all. “I have told
Robert that he is to be here. Hood will be bringing me the draft of my
new will. I shall have something to say to you all before I sign it. I
have made a good many wills, but this one is final. I shall fill in the
names and certain details tomorrow and sign the draft. I do not feel
inclined to wait for Mr. Aylwin’s return. He might be delayed, and
neither he nor anyone else will turn me from what is my decided purpose.
And now you may go! Nora—ring for Molly to come and take away the tray,
and go and tell Ellen to come and put me to bed!” She lifted her
coffee-cup and drank what remained in it at a draught. “Put this back on
the tray, Carey! And now all of you go! I am tired.”

They trooped out.

At the door Carey turned and looked back. She saw Honoria Maquisten
sitting up straight in her many-coloured brocade with its gleams of
silver and gold and her diamonds flashing. The overhead light shone down
on the piled red hair with its elaborate curls, on the long white face,
the scarlet patch high up on either cheek, the proud, set mouth, the
brilliant tired eyes.

Dennis had turned too. He blew a kiss and called, “Sleep well, darling!”

The door was shut.




                                  XIII


Magda Brayle came in at half past ten. Carey heard the click of the
front door lock and turned to look. She was on her way up to bed, and
she was very tired. She turned on the fourth step and saw Magda come in.
That is to say she knew it must be Magda because she had just used her
latchkey and come in with an air of being quite at home, but if she had
seen her anywhere else it would never have occurred to her that they had
met before. Magda was a neat starched outline, a set of colourless
features, an apron and a cap. This was a very smart young woman in a fur
coat which at any rate looked expensive, sheer silk stockings, and
high-heeled shoes, her hair curled up in a pouf above her brow, pearl
studs in her ears, eyebrows and lashes darkened, and plenty of bright
lipstick. It was quite astonishing how different she looked. Carey found
herself staring, and made haste to speak.

“I’m just going up to bed. I hope you’ve had a nice time.”

Magda hurried past her with a brief “Oh, quite,” but turned a little
higher up to enquire over her shoulder,

“Did she take her sleeping-draught?”

“Oh, yes.”

One foot on the next step, Magda said,

“When?”

“Oh, about a quarter to nine. Yes, it must have been, because we got
downstairs again in time for the nine o’clock news.”

“You were all there?”

“Yes, we had our coffee with her, but we were down again before nine.”

“Then she’ll be off. I’ll just look in and make sure.” And with that she
ran up the rest of the way.

Carey followed slowly. It seemed a long way up tonight. She was tired,
and troubled in her mind. She was very tired.

According to what she said afterwards, Magda Brayle turned out of the
corridor into her own bedroom, switched on the light, and threw down her
coat and bag upon the bed. She then went through the connecting door
into the bathroom, where she carefully removed all traces of make-up.
Would Mrs. Maquisten be wild if she saw them, or wouldn’t she? With her
face clean and colourless again, she opened the door into the bedroom
and stood there listening. She heard the sound of regular breathing and
closed the door again. The used medicine-glass had been washed clean. It
stood turned up side down in the middle of the shelf. She returned to
her own room and went to bed.

Carey lay in the dark and was haunted by a tune. This happened to her
when she was over-tired. Sometimes it was one kind of a tune, and
sometimes another. Tonight it was a faint, ghostly echo of Paul Robeson
singing “A long ways from home”.

Just that one phrase going on endlessly, over, and over, and over
again—“a long ways from home”.




                                  XIV


She woke up to Molly in the room—putting down her tea, drawing the
curtains, and crying. Carey’s perfectly blank mind received the
impression that Molly was doing all these things at one and the same
time. It was like the way things happen in a dream, telescoped and a
little distorted, so that even before she was really awake the day had a
tinge of nightmare.

She woke up suddenly and said, “What is it?”

Molly turned from the rattling curtain-rings. Beyond her the dark grey
morning looked in.

“Oh, Miss Carey—Mrs. Maquisten—she’s dead! Isn’t it dreadful?”

Carey said, “Oh, _no_!” The words shook, and the world into which she
had come shook with them. She couldn’t imagine that world without its
centre.

But Molly was pouring it all out, excited, sobbing, important.

“Nurse went in and found her. Ellen, she come up with the tea same as
she always does. She took it in and put it down and drew the curtains,
and Mrs. Maquisten never woke up. And Ellen goes through the bathroom
and knocks on Nurse’s door. I was in there doing the bath, and Nurse,
she says, ‘What is it?’ and she opens the door—dressed all but her cap
she was. And Ellen says, ‘She’s sleeping very sound. I never known her
not be awake when her tea comes. And she was early last night too—short
of ten o’clock when I put out her light and come away. That’s what comes
of sleeping-draughts. Give me a nice hop pillow!’ she says. ‘And if her
tea’s cold when she wakes, it won’t be my fault’, she says. And Nurse,
she goes straight through, and she comes back again and she says, ‘Oh,
Ellen—she’s gone!’”

Carey dressed and came down to a house that had changed
overnight—everyone with that same feeling of having got up very early
to catch a train, only there wasn’t any train to catch—action suddenly
arrested, left at a loose end, without purpose. And back of it all, that
something which slows the footsteps, lowers the voice, and hints at
things to come.

When Dr. Adams had come and gone the hint became a threat. Four people
in the study looking at one another. Dennis repeated the words which had
struck three of them silent.

“He won’t sign the certificate.”

They were all looking at him now—Nora in her uniform, a little pale, a
little shocked; Honor rather more of a wet rag than usual; Carey very
white indeed against the shining blackness of her hair.

It was Nora who said, “Why?”

“He’s not satisfied. He thinks she’s had an overdose. He says he feels
obliged to notify the police.”

He stood there leaning on his crutch, no expression in his voice, no
expression in his face. And this absence changed him quite beyond
belief. Without the lively play of humour, the light come and go of
fancy, feeling, sarcasm and the rest, he was no longer Dennis but
somebody else—a stranger who had shaved carelessly, who looked cold and
rather ill, and who spoke in a leaden voice which neither rose nor fell.

Nora gave herself a little jerk and said,

“Nonsense! He’s a fussy old woman. Aunt Honoria liked him because he ate
out of her hand and only ordered her to do what she wanted——” Then,
breaking off suddenly, “The _police_? Den, he _can’t_!”

“I’m afraid he can. In fact he probably has by now. If he doesn’t see
his way to signing the certificate there’s nothing else for it—there’ll
have to be an inquest.”

Honor made a faint bleating sound of protest. Nora stared, her round
kitten eyes quite blank, the colour in them as clear as the brown in a
peaty pool.

“Gosh—how she’d hate it!” she said. And then, “Well, I must be
off—brass hats won’t wait.” She touched him lightly as she went by to
the door, two fingers just flicking his sleeve. “Cheer up, Den—I expect
it’s a mare’s-nest. I’ll be back some time.”

She went out, and the others envied her. The darkest part of the shadow
had obviously not touched her yet. Dr. Adams was an old fuss, the
inquest something which Aunt Honoria would have hated, and she was sorry
about Den being worried. They fought as they had fought in the nursery
they had shared at the top of this very house, but under the scratches
and the rough and tumble there was the old strong, authentic
brother-and-sister tie, unnoticed when things go smoothly, but tough
enough to take a strain when it comes.

From that point the day began to darken into nightmare—a police
inspector asking questions, and, after the post mortem, his return and
the taking of statements from everyone in the house. Because Dr. Adams
wasn’t an old fuss—he was right. Honoria Maquisten had died in the
night because she had had about three times the number of tablets she
ought to have taken, and nobody who knew her could believe that she
would have committed suicide.

Since there could be no question of accident, there came in the word
which was to stay with them through all the hours and days and weeks to
come—the word Murder. One of the old words coming down out of remote
dark ages—used, and used, and over used, but never without its secret,
dreadful thrill. Because, however casually spoken, however hackneyed,
its syllables by their own black magic can still call up the ghosts of
all the crimes which sweep in pale or red or black procession across the
underworld of history. When it is spoken in a house, that house is
linked with the haunted houses of all time. The shadow which has grown
old since Cain comes there and broods upon it.

This house no longer belonged to those who lived in it. It belonged for
all present purposes to the law, whose servants came and went, and
transacted their business in the family rooms, interviewing everyone,
taking statements. Most of these interviews took place in the study,
leaving to the family a choice between the dining-room, where there was
no place to sit except at the table as if perpetually waiting for a
meal, and the big drawing-room with its chandeliers tied up in bags and
its yellow satin furniture shrouded in dust-sheets.




                                   XV


In the study Chief Inspector McGillivray interviewed Magda Brayle. A
large man with a bright blue eye and hair which must have been fiery
when he was young. It was mellowed now and streaked with grey, but his
moustache betrayed him. For the rest, he had high, flushed cheek-bones,
a blunt nose, a blunter tongue, and the accents of his native land—the
fine rolling r’s which have slipped from southern speech, and the fine
broad vowels which do justice to a well constructed sentence. A
diffident young man who never uttered sat by and wrote rapidly in
shorthand. His name presently emerged as Dowling—a negligible person,
deriving his sole importance from the fact that he too served the law.

“Now, Nurrse,”—McGillivray rolled several r’s—“you can tell me in yer
own worrds just what happened, so far as ye know it, from a quarter past
two yesterrday afternoon.”

Magda had an upright chair. She sat up straight against its straight
back, cap, collar and apron immaculately white and stiff, features
sedately composed, voice professionally cool.

“I was in the bathroom, with the door into Mrs. Maquisten’s bedroom a
little ajar.”

“What were ye doing there?”

A shade of surprise came into her voice.

“I was washing out some handkerchiefs. I heard Molly come in and say,
‘There’s a letter’, and I heard Mrs. Maquisten call her back.”

“How?”

“Very angrily. I knew at once that something was wrong. I was wondering
whether to go in, when she asked for Miss King or Mrs. Hull. When Molly
said they were both out she asked for Mr. Harland, and then for Miss
Silence. They had gone out to lunch together, and she said that whoever
came in first was to come up to her at once.”

“Now, Nurrse—was there any difference in the way she said those names?”

“I don’t think so. She was too angry to make any difference.”

“And who came in firrst?”

“Miss Silence—at about a quarter to three.”

“And were ye still washing handkerchiefs?”

His eye was bright upon her but she showed no discomposure.

“I thought it best to be where I could go to her if she needed me. It
wasn’t good for her to be excited.”

“And the door would still be a wee bit open?”

Magda said, “Yes.”

“Well, what did ye hear?”

Magda settled herself with a prim crackling of starch.

“Well, I couldn’t hear everything, you know, Inspector, and particularly
I couldn’t hear all Miss Silence said because she kept her voice quite
low—not just at first, because I heard her say, ‘What is it, Cousin
Honoria?’ And Mrs. Maquisten said, ‘Come here, Carey,’ quite loud, but
after that she began to whisper.”

“Meaning Miss Silence, or Mrs. Maquisten?”

“Mrs. Maquisten. But it wasn’t just an ordinary whisper—she sounded as
if she was choking with rage. And I couldn’t be sure what she said, but
it was something about being deceived—and Miss Silence saying, ‘Please,
Cousin Honoria,’ and that sort of thing, trying to soothe her down. And
the next thing I really heard was Mrs. Maquisten, very angry indeed,
saying Miss Silence was to ring up Mr. Aylwin at once, and he was to
come round and bring her will because she was going to alter it. Mr.
Aylwin is her solicitor, and some sort of a relation as well. She’s made
quite a lot of wills since I’ve been here—she’s always changing them.”

“And what did Miss Silence say?”

“She kept on trying to soothe her, which was quite the wrong way with
Mrs. Maquisten. She’d had her own way all her life, and it wasn’t any
good trying to stop her—I could have told Miss Silence that. She only
made her a great deal worse. She said, ‘Ring him up and say he’s to come
round at once and bring my will—the last one.’ Miss Silence said, ‘But,
Cousin Honoria——’ and Mrs. Maquisten fairly raged at her. She said
she’d been deceived, and deceit was what she wouldn’t put up with and
wouldn’t forgive, and Mr. Aylwin must come round at once, because she
was going to alter her will.”

McGillivray made the Scottish sound which is usually written “Imphm.”

“And was it Miss Silence she was accusing of deceit?”

“I couldn’t say, I’m sure.”

“From the way the conversation went, it might have been Miss Silence?”

“I suppose it might. She was so angry you couldn’t tell.”

“Ye couldn’t tell whether the anger was directed against Miss Silence?”

“Well, I wouldn’t like to say. Mrs. Maquisten had a very violent temper.
She went on saying she had been deceived, and Miss Silence was to ring
up Mr. Aylwin. And Miss Silence kept trying to put her off, which I
didn’t think at all wise of her, because the more she tried to stop her,
the more excited Mrs. Maquisten got.”

“Imphm. Miss Silence tried to stop her sending for Mr. Aylwin—ye’re
definite about that?”

“Oh, yes. And I was just thinking that I should have to go in, when Mrs.
Maquisten shouted out in a tremendous voice, ‘I won’t put up with
deceit, and I won’t put up with disobedience, Carey! Either you ring Mr.
Aylwin up at once, or I send for Magda to do it! You needn’t think you
can stop me, and you needn’t think you can make me change my mind!’ Then
Miss Silence rang up, and Mr. Aylwin was in Scotland, so Mrs. Maquisten
said Mr. Hood, his managing clerk, was to come. And he came round at
half past three and was with her for more than half an hour.”

“Imphm. And was the door still that wee bit open whilst Mr. Hood was
there?”

Magda’s calm was unruffled.

“No. She sent me out to change her library book, and she told me to shut
the door.”

“Mr. Hood was there at the time?”

“Yes.”

“And when ye came back?”

“He was still there, but he went away soon afterwards.”

“And the door was still shut?”

“Yes.”

“And after Mr. Hood was gone?”

“I went in to her, but she didn’t say anything. Mrs. Hull had tea with
her, and afterwards Miss King came home, and she saw her too. I didn’t
hear anything that passed between them. Mr. Harland came home last about
six o’clock and stayed about half an hour. But they weren’t talking all
the time—I mean they weren’t alone, because I thought I had better go
in and say that of course I shouldn’t be taking my evening off as Mrs.
Maquisten was so upset. But she was very angry about that, so in the end
I thought it best to give way. You see, that old maid of hers would be
there, and as Mr. Harland said, there was no reason why Ellen shouldn’t
give her her sleeping-draught if I put it all ready.”

“Was she in the habit of taking a sleeping-draught?”

“Oh, no. But Dr. Adams thought it advisable if she had been
over-excited, so I thought I would leave it all ready. The tablets had
to be dissolved for her.”

“How many?”

“Just one as a rule, but if she didn’t get off by eleven or so, I would
give her another.”

“Then it was one tablet ye dissolved and left for her?”

“Yes.”

“And then ye went out? What time would that be?”

Magda took a moment.

“I think about seven o’clock. Mr. Harland was with her till half past
six, and then I had to change.”

“And what time was it when ye came in?”

“Half past ten. I passed Miss Silence on the stairs.”

“Did ye go in to Mrs. Maquisten at all?”

“I went into my own room, and through the bathroom to listen at the
bedroom door. I could tell by her breathing that she was asleep, so I
shut the door and came away. I didn’t go in. The medicine-glass had been
washed and put back on the bathroom shelf. I went to bed. Next morning
at half past seven Ellen Bridling came in and said she had taken up Mrs.
Maquisten’s tea as usual, but she didn’t seem to wake up. So I went in
in a hurry and found her dead.”

“Imphm. Now about this medicine-glass, Nurrse. Ye dissolved one tablet?”

“Yes—one.”

“In how much water?”

“About a third of the glass. She took it filled up with coffee and a
dash of brandy.”

“And ye left it where?”

“In the bathroom, on the shelf over the wash-basin.”

He leaned forward, reddish-grey eyebrows drawn together over bright blue
eyes.

“And where did ye leave the tablets?”

“In the glass-fronted cupboard over the shelf.”

“Would this be the bottle?”

The small flat bottle lay on the table between them. The top left-hand
corner of the label had been torn off. The bottle was nearly empty.
Magda looked at it.

“Yes—that’s the one.”

“Take it up in yer hand! Take a look at it! Did ye notice the number of
tablets when ye took out the one ye dissolved?”

Magda picked up the bottle and turned it over. There were only three
tablets in it. She said without any expression in her voice,

“There were certainly more than that.”

“Could ye say how many more?”

She said steadily, “I tilted out three on my hand and took one of them.
There were quite a few left in the bottle—there must have been eight or
nine altogether.”

“Sure of that, Nurrse?”

“Oh, yes.”

“Ye’d swear to it?”

Magda said, “Yes.”

“Imphm. . . . There’s just one thing more. Ye didn’t happen to wipe the
bottle when ye put it away?”

“No—why should I?”

“I can’t tell ye that. But somebody wiped it—clean as a whistle. Not a
fingermarrk on it. Sure it wasn’t you?”

Magda looked at him coldly,

“Quite sure.”

The sharp blue look dwelt on her for a minute before he let her go. Left
alone, he transferred it to the bottle lying there on the blotting-pad.
After a moment he once more repeated the old Scotch word,

“Imphm.”




                                  XVI


McGillivray went on with his interviewing.

He saw Robert Maquisten, correct, concerned, a little stiff, a little
with the air of having to remind himself that these questions about
family affairs were put with the voice of authority, and that it behoved
him as a good citizen to answer them.

Actually, he seemed to have very little to contribute. He had dropped in
to see his aunt at tea-time on Sunday the 15th. His cousins were there,
and Miss Silence. There was no sign of friction or strain. He went away
soon after five o’clock. That was the last time he saw Mrs. Maquisten
alive. He did not visit the house at all on Monday the 16th. Mr. Harland
rang up at about nine o’clock on Tuesday morning and informed him that
their aunt had died in her sleep. Questioned as to Mrs. Maquisten’s
propensity for altering her will, he replied that no one in the family
took it very seriously. There was a touch of dignity in his manner as he
added that they were all convinced of her affection and her desire to
benefit them.

“Any alterations or readjustments that she may have made from time to
time were not, I think, taken seriously by any of us.”

McGillivray asked whether he was aware of the provisions of the latest
will. There was no hesitation about the reply.

“Not in detail. I believe Mr. Aylwin and I are executors. She has not,
as far as I know, made any change in that for some years now. I know
that she wished to make a bequest to Miss Silence, and I suppose that
she has done so.”

“Do ye know the amount of the bequest?”

“No, but it would be substantial. My aunt was warm-hearted and
impulsive, and she had taken a great fancy to Miss Silence.”

McGillivray let him go.

He saw Dennis Harland, Nora Hull, Honor King, and Carey Silence—in that
order. Each assured him separately that Mrs. Maquisten had given no clue
as to the authorship of the letter she had received or the identity of
the person whom that letter accused. All agreed that she was in great
anger and disturbance of mind. All admitted to knowing that they were
legatees under a will executed only a week before.

He took each of them through his or her movements during the afternoon
and evening of the 16th.

Mr. Harland lunched out in company with Miss Silence, returned at 6
o’clock, had half an hour with Mrs. Maquisten, and an hour in the study
with Miss Silence. At half past seven he went to his room to change,
coming down to the study again at 8 o’clock. Dinner was a little late,
as they waited for Mrs. Hull. After dinner, at Mrs. Maquisten’s request,
they went up to have coffee in her room, Mrs. Hull and Miss King going
up to their bedrooms first and Mr. Harland visiting the cloakroom. Miss
Silence was the first to reach Mrs. Maquisten’s room, where she found
the coffee-tray set and Ellen Bridling in attendance.

Mrs. Hull, who had been out driving for General Ferguson, came in at
half past four, spent twenty minutes with her aunt, during which time
they both had tea, and then went out again to drive the General to an
engagement in the country, returning at eight o’clock, when she went in
to dinner with the rest of the party. On receiving Mrs. Maquisten’s
summons she decided to change, as her aunt greatly disliked seeing her
in uniform. She told Miss King that she had better change also, and the
two of them went upstairs together. Their bedrooms are next door to each
other. They went up together, but Miss King was ready first and came
down alone.

Miss King came back from packing parcels for prisoners of war at about a
quarter past five. She was told that Mrs. Maquisten wished to see her
and went straight up to her room. She was there a much shorter time than
any of the others, her own account being that she found her aunt angry
and excited, and that she got away as soon as she could. Mrs. Maquisten
did not say why she was angry, only vague things about being deceived
and altering her will. After she left her aunt she went up to her own
room and stayed there until just before dinner. Ellen Bridling was with
her from half past seven to eight o’clock. After dinner she went
upstairs with Mrs. Hull to change her dress, the latter having pointed
out that their aunt greatly disliked the one she was wearing. Their
bedrooms are next door to each other. She was ready first, so came down
alone. Ellen Bridling was on the landing. They walked along the corridor
together.

Miss Silence lunched with Mr. Harland and returned home at a quarter to
three. Her account of her interview with Mrs. Maquisten does not differ
materially from that given by Nurse Brayle. She, however, denies
emphatically that Mrs. Maquisten accused her of deceit. She admits that
her cousin was very angry, but says that this anger was caused by her
reluctance to ring up Mr. Aylwin. She explains this reluctance by saying
that Mrs. Maquisten was very much excited, that she thought this
excitement was bad for her, and she hoped that with a little more time
for reflection the whole thing might blow over. She asseverates that she
had no idea as to the identity of the person who was to be cut out of
the will. On leaving the bedroom she went up to her room to take off her
outdoor things, and afterwards to the study, where she remained until
half past seven, Mr. Harland being there with her from half past six
onwards. At half past seven she went to her room to change. She dined
with the others, left the table after Mrs. Hull and Miss King, and
preceded Mr. Harland to Mrs. Maquisten’s room.

All these four persons give the same description of what happened after
they had assembled in Mrs. Maquisten’s room. Ellen was rung for and told
to fetch the sleeping-draught. She is a privileged person, and she was
in a bad temper. She refused, saying she didn’t hold with
sleeping-draughts and offering a hop pillow instead. She finally said,
“Why don’t you ask Miss Carey or Miss Nora?” (Mrs. Hull), whereupon Mrs.
Maquisten sent Carey Silence for the draught and Ellen left the room.
Mr. Harland, Mrs. Hull, and Miss King agree that Miss Silence went
through the communicating door into the bathroom and came back without
any delay at all. They say, and Miss Silence agrees, that the
medicine-glass she brought back with her was more than half full. Nurse
Brayle affirms that she dissolved one tablet and left the glass not more
than one third full. Something, then, had been added to it. Mrs.
Maquisten directed Miss Silence to take the glass to Miss King to be
filled up with coffee, milk and sugar. She then added a dash of brandy
herself from a flask brought to her by Miss Silence from the table
beside her bed. After drinking the mixture she asked for and drank a cup
of coffee with milk, sugar and a dash of brandy in it. She then informed
her relatives that she expected them all to attend upon her next day at
a quarter to two, when Mr. Hood would be bringing her the draft of her
new will. She informed them that she would have something to say to them
before she signed it, that this will was to be final, and that she
intended to fill in the names and certain details upon the draft, and to
sign it without waiting for Mr. Aylwin’s return, adding that neither he
nor anyone else would turn her from her purpose. She then dismissed
them, telling Mrs. Hull to send Ellen in to put her to bed.

Since the post mortem revealed that at least five or six tablets were
administered, these must have been added between seven o’clock, when
Nurse Brayle went out leaving the mixture on the bathroom shelf, and the
time, approximately 8.45, when Miss Silence fetched it. During this
period Mr. Harland and Miss Silence separated and went to their
respective rooms—7.30 to 8. Miss King was in her room between 7 and 8.
Mrs. Hull did not come home till 8 o’clock. Any one of the first three
could have walked along the corridor, entered the bathroom, and added
tablets to the mixture, but according to Ellen Bridling the time during
which this could have taken place must be considerably narrowed down.
She states that from seven o’clock onwards she sat with her door open,
and that no one could have come along the passage without being seen or
heard by her, until half past seven, when she went in to see if Mrs.
Maquisten wanted anything, and then went upstairs to have a word with
Miss King. They were together in Miss King’s bedroom until the
dinner-bell rang, when she came back to her own room and Miss King went
on down to the dining-room. Later on, when Miss King had gone up to
change after dinner, Ellen states that when she herself came out of Mrs.
Maquisten’s room she walked to the end of the corridor and there heard
Miss King call out to Mrs. Hull, “I’m going down, Nora.” After which she
saw Miss King come downstairs and, waiting, walked back with her as far
as her own room. She saw Miss King go into Mrs. Maquisten’s room. From
this it seems that Miss King had no possible opportunity of tampering
with the sleeping-draught.

The times when the draught might have been tampered with by one of the
relations are now narrowed to two periods, one between 7.30 and 8
o’clock, and the other, very short indeed, round about 8.40 to 8.45,
after the party in the dining-room had broken up. As regards the first
period, either Mr. Harland or Miss Silence could have reached the
bathroom and added something to the draught. As regards the second short
period, Miss Silence, Mr. Harland, and Mrs. Hull could have done so.

McGillivray frowned at his notes. For certain reasons he considered the
second period the more likely time of the two. Until those four young
people met round the dinner-table they would not have been certain that
Mrs. Maquisten had not told one of them who it was she was about to cut
out of her will. But Molly’s evidence made it clear that the subject had
been discussed with lively interest at dinner. If the proposed
alteration of the will provided the motive for the crime, it seemed
improbable that the draught would have been actually tampered with
unless the guilty person had some reasonable assurance that he would not
immediately be suspected. He considered that a fair conclusion. But this
second period was very short to admit of the abstracting and dissolving
of the tablets. It could have been done, but he found it difficult to
believe that it had been done. No, no, the crime had been thought out
beforehand—perhaps some hours beforehand—and the tablets abstracted
and dissolved during that first period between 7.30 and 8 o’clock, and
added to the draught during the second period when those four people had
left the dinner-table and were arriving one by one in Mrs. Maquisten’s
bedroom, Miss Silence first. She could have had the mixture ready,
perhaps in the bathroom cupboard. She had ample time to slip in and tip
the dissolved tablets into the mixture left by Nurse Brayle. There was
actually a second medicine glass in the cupboard which could have been
used, washed, and put back again. It showed no fingerprints, but
nowadays everybody knew enough to avoid leaving fingerprints. The glass
from which the draught had been taken showed no fingerprints except
those of Miss Silence, but since she admittedly washed it and put it
away, this cannot be considered as evidence against her. All the same,
she had a very good opportunity of tampering with the draught.

So had Mr. Harland. But on other grounds he does not seem so likely. He
was apparently on easier and more affectionate terms with his aunt that
evening than any of the other three. And then, he had to use a crutch.
Mrs. Maquisten and Miss Silence were in the next room. He would have had
to risk being heard in the bathroom.

Mrs. Hull was not in the house during the first period. Miss King
accompanied her when she went upstairs after dinner, but was ready first
and came down alone. Ellen Bridling was then on the landing. Mr. Harland
was a minute or two behind Miss King, and Mrs. Hull a minute or two
behind him. She would have had to be as quick as lightning, and she
would be taking an extraordinary risk.

Miss King had no opportunity of tampering with the glass. Ellen
Bridling’s statement clears her.

McGillivray continued to frown at his notes. When a considerable time
had elapsed he said,

“Imphm.”

                  _Timetable drawn up by McGillivray_

2.15 (approx.)—Molly takes letter to Mrs. Maquisten.

2.45—Carey Silence returns.

2.45 to 3.5 (approx.)—with Mrs. Maquisten. Aylwin’s office rung up.

3.5 to 3.30—Carey Silence to her room. Later to study.

3.30 to 4.0.—Hood, Aylwin’s head clerk, with Mrs. Maquisten.

4.30 to 4.50—Mrs. Hull with Mrs. Maquisten.

5.15 to 5.25 (approx.)—Honor King with Mrs. Maquisten.

6.0 to 6.30—Harland with Mrs. Maquisten.

6.30 to 7.30—Harland and Silence together in study.

7.0—Nurse Brayle goes out, leaving sleeping-draught on bathroom shelf.

7.0 to 7.30—King in own room. Ellen in own room, immediately opposite
Mrs. Maquisten’s, with door wide open. Harland and Silence in study.
Mrs. Hull out.

7.30 to 8.0—Harland own room. Silence own room. King own room. Ellen
with King. Hull out.

8.0 (approx.)—Hull returns.

8.5 to 8.37 (approx.)—Harland, Silence, King, Hull at dinner.

8.37—Hull and King to change. Silence to Mrs. M. Ellen there.

8.40—Ellen to landing. Sees King come down.

8.43 to 8.45—King, Harland, and Hull to Mrs. M. at short intervals in
that order.

8.45—Molly brings up coffee. Silence sent for sleeping-draught.




                                  XVII


“Mr. Hood to see you, sir.”

McGillivray looked up and saw a slight, pale person with smooth dark
hair receding from the temples. The chin receded a little too. The born
underling, but no doubt efficient at his job—painstaking. Beneath a
composed manner McGillivray thought him nervous. He said,

“Sit down, Mr. Hood. Mr. Aylwin is not back yet I suppose?”

Mr. Hood sat down.

“No, he is not back. But he is on his way—I am expecting him at the
office to-morrow.”

McGillivray leaned back in his chair.

“Ah, well, ye can be more use to us than he can, I expect. Perhaps ye’d
be so good as to give me the substance of what passed between yerself
and Mrs. Maquisten on the afternoon of the sixteenth.”

Mr. Hood looked apprehensive.

“Really, Inspector, I’m not sure—communications from a client——” His
voice petered out.

McGillivray fixed him with a bright blue eye.

“Now, Mr. Hood—yer scruples do ye credit, but this is a murder case.”

Ernest Hood started.

“Inspector!”

“Ay—there’s no doubt about it. Murder or suicide—it would be one of
the two, and there’s nothing to suggest that it would be suicide.
No—murder is what it is, and that being the case, ye can see for
yerself that the interview ye had with the deceased is of the very
firrst importance. Somewhere between 2.15 and 2.30 she received a letter
which put her in a great state of anger. At 2.45 she was telling Miss
Silence that she had been deceived, and that she meant to cut somebody
out of her will. At approximately 3 o’clock Miss Silence was ringing up
your office, and between 3.30 and after 4 o’clock ye were closeted with
Mrs. Maquisten. No doubt ye were receiving her instructions with regard
to the proposed alteration in her will?”

Mr. Hood looked embarrassed. He said,

“Well—yes——” And then, “I hardly know if I ought——”

“I think ye’ll just have to.”

Mr. Hood ran a finger round inside his collar.

“Well, if you say so, Inspector——” He cleared his throat. “I would
prefer to see Mr. Aylwin first.”

McGillivray had no doubt of it. He said easily,

“Ah, well, we can’t always be doing what we prefer. How did ye find Mrs.
Maquisten?”

“Oh, very angry, Inspector.” Mr. Hood had the air of shrinking from the
recollection. “She really had a very violent temper, but I don’t think I
ever saw her so much put out before.”

“What did she say?”

Mr. Hood considered.

“Well, she said a great deal. I couldn’t undertake to repeat her exact
words. She was angry because Mr. Aylwin was away—and very angry because
he had taken the key of the safe so that it was not possible for me to
bring her latest will along with me. She had only made it the week
before, but she wanted to have it destroyed without the least delay.”

“Did she often make a new will, Mr. Hood?”

“Oh, yes, she was always making them. Or if it wasn’t a new will it
would be a codicil—a little on to one legacy and a little off
another—just, as you might say, shifting the money round, but nothing
that really made very much of a change, if you know what I mean. And in
the next will she’d generally put it back where it was before.”

“Imphm. . . . And the will she made last week—the one that’s locked up
in the safe—would that be just the same as all the others?”

As the talk proceeded, Mr. Hood’s manner had become tinged with
importance. Now he hesitated again.

“Well, I hardly know—but perhaps—no, I wouldn’t say that. You see,
Miss Silence came into it.”

“Perhaps ye’ll be so good as to explain.”

Mr. Hood explained.

“There was no mention of Miss Silence in any of the previous wills. I
believe there had been a family quarrel, but when Miss Silence came here
on a visit—about a fortnight ago—Mrs. Maquisten took a very great
fancy to her.” He continued to hesitate. “It’s very difficult indeed,
Inspector—but I suppose there’s no harm in my telling you—because of
course the terms of the will won’t be any secret now—I mean Mr. Aylwin
will be acquainting the family with them.”

“Imphm. Ye had better continue.”

Mr. Hood cleared his throat.

“Oh, well, I suppose—in the circumstances——As a matter of fact under
that last will—the one that will be operative now—Miss Silence comes
in for a very considerable legacy.”

“And what would ye call very considerable?”

Mr. Hood gazed at him solemnly and said,

“Fifty thousand pounds.”

A very faint whistle escaped McGillivray.

“There was also a bequest of jewelry—a very valuable set of rubies and
diamonds worth, I believe, about ten thousand pounds.”

“All this on a week’s acquaintance?”

“Mrs. Maquisten was, I believe, very much attached to Miss Silence’s
grandmother. Miss Silence resembles her. Mrs. Maquisten remarked on the
likeness several times in my presence whilst her instructions for these
bequests were being taken.”

McGillivray plunged into thought. Emerging presently, he addressed the
waiting Mr. Hood.

“To come back to yer interview with the deceased on the Monday
afternoon. Did she say anything to indicate that she intended to revoke
any particular bequest?”

Mr. Hood got out a handkerchief and wiped his brow.

“Really, Inspector, it’s very difficult—I hardly know what to say——”

“Ye can give me a plain answer. It will save my time and yours.”

The handkerchief was rolled between nervous hands.

“With every desire to be of assistance, it is very difficult for
me—very delicate—but I will do my best. Mrs. Maquisten made it quite
clear that she wished to make a new will. The one she had made only the
week before was to be destroyed.”

“She gave ye instructions about the new will?”

“In a way——”

“What d’ye mean by that?”

Hood hesitated.

“Well, she had a list of her securities and of her jewels. She made a
division of them into four main parts, but she did not attach any names
to the bequests. She told me the names would be filled in next day. She
had in her hand the draft copy of her last will.”

“How did she get it?” said McGillivray sharply.

Mr. Hood looked surprised.

“Oh, she could walk if she wanted to—enough to get about the room. Or
her maid might have brought it to her. She has been with her a long
time, I believe.”

“Well, go on. She had the draft—what were ye going to say about it?”

Mr. Hood looked very unhappy.

“Well, I suppose I had better tell you. She said that all the minor
legacies were to stand—servants, charities, small bequests to
friends—but the big legacies, the ones to the near relatives, were to
be divided into four portions instead of into five as in the last will.”

“Imphm—and who would the five be?”

“Under the last will Mr. Robert Maquisten, Mrs. Hull, Miss King, Mr.
Harland, and Miss Silence.”

“So that one of those five was to be dropped. But she didn’t say which?”

“No, she didn’t say which.”

Ever so faintly Mr. Hood laid a stress on the word “say”. It might have
been by a nervous inadvertence or by an equally nervous intent.

McGillivray took him up sharply.

“I think ye know something, Mr. Hood, and I’ll thank ye to tell me what
it is.”

The beaded brow was mopped again.

“She didn’t name any names, but there was something she said——”

“Ye’d best let me have it.”

“It was when she was saying that she had been deceived.”

“She said that she had been deceived?”

“She kept on saying it. She was very angry and very much upset, and she
said, ‘But I ought to have known—it wasn’t for want of being warned.
Ellen warned me, but I didn’t take any notice’—that’s the old maid,
Inspector. So I said, trying to calm her down, ‘Well, it’s not too late,
Mrs. Maquisten,’ and she said, ‘Old friends are best. Ellen’s
faithful—she warned me. Up with the rocket and down with the stick,’
she said. I thought that was a queer thing for her to say, and I suppose
I looked surprised, because she said, ‘That’ll never happen to you, will
it? You’re one of the steady-going ones. How would you like to be a
rocket? A stranger for a week, an heiress for a week, and then down with
the stick and a stranger again.’ Well, Inspector, you can’t help your
thoughts—and what was I to think?”

“And what did ye think?” enquired McGillivray.

For once Mr. Hood was blunt.

“I thought she was talking about Miss Silence.”




                                 XVIII


Ellen came into the room in her black afternoon dress with a star-shaped
brooch of Whitby jet at the throat. Her small, sunk eyes were rimmed
with red, her skin very yellow, lifeless, and wrinkled. She came in
slowly, her head with its neatly banded hair poked forward, her hands
with their bony knuckles clutched together at her waist. When offered a
chair she sat down upon the edge of it and sniffed.

“I won’t have to keep ye long, Miss Bridling.”

There was a gleam of anger in the small, sunk eyes.

“Mrs. Bridling is what I’ve had from everyone in this house for
thirty-five years, if it wasn’t for the family.”

McGillivray contrived a smile.

“Brevet rank?” he said. “Well, we’ll not quarrel about that, Mrs.
Bridling.”

Ellen was not placated. She gave him her hooded stare.

“And if it’s any more questions, why weren’t they all asked at once,
when the other young man wrote everything down and I put my name to it?”

“Ah well, Mrs. Bridling, there’s things that come up afterwards—ye must
see that for yerself. And it’s not everyone that’s been as long in the
family as ye’ve been—there wouldn’t be much going on that ye wouldn’t
know about.”

Ellen sat stiff.

“Thirty-five years—ah well, it’s a long time. Ye’d be more like a
friend than a servant—a confidential friend. I wouldn’t wonder if Mrs.
Maquisten didn’t tell ye things she wouldn’t name to the family.”

Ellen pressed her lips together—thin lips from which the blood had
receded, leaving them dark.

“And I wouldn’t wonder if she didn’t listen a good bit more to what ye
said than she did to the family.”

There was a spark in the hooded eyes.

“She wasn’t one to listen, Mrs. Maquisten wasn’t!”

“Better if she had been?”

The lips tightened, deepening the lines about them. Then they opened.

“It’s what I said to her myself—no later than that last day I said
it—‘Better if you’d have listened to those as have served you faithful
and not let yourself get imposed upon by them you don’t know nothing
about—creeping in, and sucking up, and pushing those on one side that’s
been like your own children!’”

“Meaning Miss Silence?” said McGillivray.

Ellen stared.

“And who else should I mean? Coming in where she wasn’t wanted, and my
poor dear making the fuss of the world over her, with Carey this and
Carey that, and, ‘I’m leaving her the rubies, Ellen’. Putting ideas into
her head, that’s what I called it. I don’t know how I kept myself! Only
Sunday afternoon she made me open the safe and get them out—put the
necklace on her so that she could go and look in the glass! And I
thought to myself then, ‘Well, pride goes before a fall, Miss Carey
Silence’. And if Mrs. Maquisten didn’t take the very words out of my
mouth before they got there!”

“And what made her do that?”

Ellen sniffed.

“Called her a proud, obstinate creature in a laughing sort of way, and
then came out with those very words—‘Pride goes before a fall.’ And I
thought, ‘There’s many a true word spoken in jest.’”

McGillivray sat looking at her.

“Ye’ve no great love for Miss Silence,” he said at last.

Ellen sat up a little more stiffly, her shoulders squared, her hands at
her waist. Only her head still had its forward poke. She said in a
bitter voice,

“She come in as a stranger and she was loved like a child. And look what
come of it!”

“And what did come of it in your opeenion, Mrs. Bridling?”

He got one gleam, and then the eyes were hooded again.

“It’s not for me to say.”

He came back at her hard and quick.

“Meaning that ye think it was Miss Silence put yer mistress to sleep.
Why?”

The eyelids came up with a jerk. Bright anger looked out.

“Is there anyone else who’d have done it? Tell me that! Is there anyone
else who had everything to lose if my poor dear went on living? Don’t
you know it was Miss Carey who was going to come out of her will?”

“Can ye substantiate that?”

“I don’t know what you mean.”

“Did she tell ye it was Miss Silence she was cutting out? If she did,
why did ye not say so before? I have yer signed statement here, and it
says, ‘She was very angry, and talked about being deceived, but she
didn’t mention any names. I didn’t ask her any questions, because I’d
enough to do as it was to get her quieted down.’ That’s what ye said.”

The angry, bright regard did not waver.

“The young man asked me did she mention any names, and I told him the
truth. You don’t need names when you’ve been as long with anyone as what
I have. I knew what she meant, and so would anyone else with any sense
in them.”

“What did she say?”

“She said I’d warned her and she did ought to have listened to me.” Two
filmy tears obscured the anger. One of the gnarled hands went groping to
a pocket and came back with a large old-fashioned handkerchief neatly
folded. There was a dabbing of the eyes, a resonant sniff. Ellen choked,
swallowed, and went on. “And if she had she’d been alive now, my poor
dear, but I wasn’t to know that then. ‘But you were right, Ellen, and I
did ought to have listened,’ she said, and she cried.” She choked again.

“Imphm. . . . And ye took it she was meaning Miss Carey Silence. Why?”

Ellen unfolded the handkerchief and blew her nose vehemently.

“It was Miss Carey that I’d been warning her about, and it was Miss
Carey that was in both our minds.”

“Imphm. But ye see, Mrs. Bridling, it’s possible that while ye had Miss
Carey Silence in mind, Mrs. Maquisten might have been thinking of quite
a different pairson.”

Ellen gave a sniff of contempt.

“Well then, she wasn’t! The first I went in to her after she’d had the
letter she said to me, as angry a you please, ‘Well, Ellen, you were
right, and I suppose I shall never hear the last of it,’ she said, and,
‘Thank God, I had a friend that told me the truth before it was too
late.’ She’d the letter in her hand, but she didn’t tell me who it was
from—only thank God she’d got a friend that wasn’t afraid to tell her
the truth.”

“Ye didn’t think she might be meaning yerself?”

“No. It was the person who had written her the letter she meant. She had
it in her hand. And then she said, ‘Those that go up quick can come down
quick. And I’ll not be deceived a second time,’ she said. ‘I’ll make a
new will, and then we’ll see who’s going to laugh on the wrong side of
their mouth.’ And she took hold of me by my hand, and she said, ‘You
warned me, and I did ought to have listened, Ellen’, and the tears
running down her face, my poor dear. So I took and said, ‘Don’t you
fret, my dear, for she isn’t worth it. Put her away out of your will and
out of your mind, and we’ll all be the same as what we were before.”

“When was this?” said McGillivray.

Ellen stared.

“It was after the nurse went out,” she said in an offended voice.

McGillivray glanced down at the time-table on his blotting-pad.

“She went out at seven. Seven to seven-thirrty ye were in yer room with
the door open. Seven-thirrty to eight ye were with Miss King.”

Ellen went on staring in that offended way.

“Do you think I’d leave her and never look in? Why, the first thing
after the nurse was gone I stepped across.”

“Then ye were not in yer room between seven and seven-thirrty.”

“I was there all the time I wasn’t with Mrs. Maquisten. And if you’re
thinking of anyone getting into the bathroom, they couldn’t have done
it, because I was in and out with the door open, getting her a glass of
water and a sponge to dab her eyes after she’d been crying.”

“How long would ye be there?”

“I couldn’t say.”

“Ten minutes?”

“Maybe.”

“Not longer than that?”

Ellen gave herself a jerk.

“Not so long,” she said in a grumbling voice. “I don’t keep looking at
clocks, but it wasn’t so long as ten minutes. She said what I told you,
and she cried, poor dear. And I got her a sponge and a glass of water,
and I come away to let her get quieted down. And when I looked in at
half past seven, like I told you, she didn’t say a word—only to shake
her head when I told her I was going up to Miss Honor, and did she want
anything?”

“And when did ye see Mrs. Maquisten again?”

“I got her up and into her chair for her dinner after Miss Honor went
down. But we didn’t say anything more about it, neither of us. I didn’t
want to upset her, and she didn’t want to be upset, with the family
coming up to coffee, so we didn’t say nothing. Nor we didn’t when I put
her to bed—only she took hold of my hand tight and said, ‘You won’t
ever leave me, Ellen, will you?’ And that was the last thing she ever
said to me.”

McGillivray leaned back in his chair. He might have been thinking about
Ellen, or he might not. When the silence had lasted quite a long time he
said in an absent-minded voice,

“Ye were with Miss King between seven-thirrty and eight.” Then, with a
sudden sharpness, “Why?”

Ellen produced that offended stare.

“There was a dress Mrs. Maquisten give her, it wanted the hem taking
up.”

“Was she going to wear it?”

“I got it done all but a matter of inches, but she wouldn’t wait, not
after she heard Mrs. Hull come in, so I finished it and left it on her
bed, and she come up and put it on after dinner was over.”

McGillivray produced a smile which sat rather oddly upon a mouth whose
ordinary expression was grim.

“Ye have a particular fondness for Miss Honor King, no doubt.”

Ellen gave that jerk again.

“Her!” she said. “And who’s been telling you that?”

“Oh, no one, no one—I just thought of it for myself. And ye said ye
were altering her dress——”

He got a look which showed him how very little Mrs. Bridling thought of
the police. She said in her grumbling way, “What’s that got to do with
being fond of anyone? Miss Honor, to be sure! Find me anyone that’s fond
of her, in the house or out of it! A poor winnicking child she
was—nothing wrong with her, and nothing right—whooping-cough twice as
long as anyone else, and all the other things to match. A poor thing she
was to start with, and a poor thing she’ll be all her days. Miss Honor
indeed!”

McGillivray had seldom heard so much resentment in a human voice, and he
was prepared to stake his professional reputation that it was genuine.
If she didn’t dislike Honor King she despised her. Any idea that Ellen
had lent herself to fabricating an alibi faded from his mind. He knew
resentment and contempt when he encountered them. You don’t perjure
yourself to provide an alibi for someone you despise and dislike. Honor
King was definitely out of it.

He changed the subject abruptly.

“Just one thing more, Mrs. Bridling. I suppose Mrs. Maquisten will have
provided for ye?”

Ellen’s bony fingers tightened upon the handkerchief. She looked at him
defiantly.

“And what are you trying to make out of that? Haven’t I been with her
for thirty-five years? What would you think of her if she hadn’t
provided for me?”

“Did she tell ye the amount of the provision?”

Ellen sniffed fiercely.

“No, she didn’t!”

McGillivray let her go.




                                  XIX


“Den!” Nora came running up behind him and put a hand on his arm.

“What is it?”

“I want to talk to you. That policeman is in the study—he’s got Ellen
there—I want to talk to you. Come to the drawing-room!”

The big room was cold and gloomy to a degree—blinds drawn down,
chandeliers in linen bags, dust-sheets covering the furniture, a smell
of soot and mould. Nora made a face.

“It’s frightful in here, but there are people all over the place.”

He raised his eyebrows.

“A heart-to-heart?”

She nodded vehemently.

“_Yes._ Den, it’s frightful—that man’s got Ellen in there, and God
knows what she’s saying!”

They were standing quite close to the door. He moved nearer to it now
and switched on one of the corner lights. Under it he could see that
Nora was frightened. Her naturally vivid colour was all gone, leaving
her reddened lips too bright and rather ghastly. He said,

“What has she been saying to you?”

The round eyes became rounder. She said in a childish whisper,

“She says it was Carey that Aunt Honoria was going to cut out of her
will.”

Dennis didn’t say anything at all. He began to look as if he was cold.
He didn’t say anything.

Nora’s round brown eyes were brimming. They were exactly the colour of
water in a peaty pool.

“Den, that’s what she said—and now she’s saying it to him.”

“When did she say it to you?”

“Just now, whilst he was talking to Ernest. And then he sent for her,
and I know she’s telling him. She’ll be glad to—she hates Carey.”

“She’s jealous. I don’t believe she knows a thing. Don’t you remember,
you suggested at dinner on Monday night that Ellen might know who was
for it, and I said she didn’t, because I’d asked her.”

“I know. I told her that, and she said Aunt Honoria had told her not to
say anything so of course she didn’t, but now she was dead it was
different and she’d be bound to tell what she knew. Den, it’s horrible!
Carey couldn’t!”

Dennis had a frozen look. He said,

“We don’t know her very well, do we?”

“Den!”

“What did Ellen say?”

“That Aunt Honoria had talked to her about it and said it was Carey—‘as
near as makes no difference’.”

“What did she mean by that?”

“She said, ‘Oh, we didn’t name no names, but it was Miss Carey she
meant.’ Den, that’s what frightens me, because if she was making it up
out of jealousy and spite she wouldn’t go and boggle at the name—she’d
say right out that Aunt Honoria had told her it was Carey.”

“I don’t know——”

“Oh, she would—I’m sure she would.”

“She might want to leave herself a loophole, in case it came out that it
was someone else.”

“Do you think she’d be clever enough for that? She’s just an ignorant,
spiteful old thing, but she’s been here donkey’s years, and she did love
Aunt Honoria.”

Dennis stood quite silent for a moment. Then he said,

“You’d better know—Ernest Hood says the same thing.”

Nora drew in her breath.

“Oh, Den—he doesn’t!”

Dennis frowned.

“He does. I met him coming out of the study, and he blattered out the
whole thing—said he hoped he’d done right, and he didn’t know what Mr.
Aylwin would say, but the Chief Inspector had put great pressure on him,
and as it was a murder case he hardly liked—and so forth and so on. You
know his style.”

Nora gave a small sharp cry.

“_Murder?_ Oh, Den!”

Dennis nodded.

“Doesn’t sound too good, does it? But that’s what it is—someone
murdered Aunt Honoria to stop her altering her will. _Cui bono?_ Who
profits—in case you’ve forgotten your Latin.”

“Den—don’t!”

He turned towards the door, fumbling with his crutch.

“If I don’t dot the i’s and cross the t’s, the Chief Inspector will.”

Nora began to cry, her eyes wide open and the tears running down over
her cheeks.

“Den, she wouldn’t—not Carey—she _couldn’t_! I thought you were fond
of her. Aren’t you?”

He had got the door open. He looked back at her and said, his mouth
awry,

“Damnable—isn’t it, darling?”

His crutch went tapping away down the corridor. Nora sat down on the
nearest chair and cried for quite a long time.




                                   XX


When McGillivray was through with Ellen he had Dennis Harland in.

“I’m sorry to trouble ye. There are just one or two points——”

Dennis got himself into a chair and stretched out a leg. All the
contours of his face had sharpened. There was a flush upon his cheeks.
His eyes were tired and bright. He said,

“It’s no trouble.” His voice was flat. McGillivray thought he looked as
if he had a temperature. He said,

“It’s very obliging of ye. It would be about Mrs. Maquisten’s maid,
Ellen Bridling. She appears to have been very devoted to her.”

“Oh, yes.”

“Ye’ll have known her a long time?”

“Ever since I can remember. My aunt brought us all up.”

“When ye say _all_, ye’ll be meaning——?”

“My cousins Mrs. Hull and Miss King, and myself.”

“Not Mr. Robert Maquisten or Miss Silence?”

“No.”

“And Mrs. Bridling would no doubt be very much attached to all three of
ye?”

Dennis’s smile broke out and changed his face.

“I don’t think she’s the least attached to any of us.”

“Not to Miss King?”

The smile became a dry laugh.

“Good lord, no! She hates children, and she loathed having us here. I
may say that we reciprocated and did our best to give her good and
sufficient cause. She doesn’t love any of us, but if there’s one she
dislikes more than the others, it’s Honor.”

“But she was attached to Mrs. Maquisten?”

“Undoubtedly. She’s a sour old crab, but she loved my aunt—I’m quite
sure about that.”

“Imphm. And Mrs. Maquisten will have made some provision for her no
doubt?”

“Oh, yes.”

“Ye know that for a fact?”.

Dennis looked a little surprised.

“Well, yes, I do. My aunt was not at all a secretive person. She enjoyed
making wills, and she enjoyed talking about what was in them. Ellen was
to have an annuity of three pounds a week.”

“Would she be cognizant of that?”

“I suppose so.”

“Did Mrs. Maquisten vary the amount from time to time?”

“Oh, no, she didn’t do that sort of thing with the staff. Mrs. Deeping
was to have two pounds a week, and Ellen three. That was in all the
wills. It was just the family legacies she liked having fun and games
with. And if you’re thinking would it have been worth Ellen’s while to
poison Aunt Honoria, well, it wouldn’t. She got two pounds a week and a
fiver at Christmas, and with board and lodging thrown in and a present
here and there—well, you can add it up for yourself. She wouldn’t want
to come down to a bedsitting room after bossing it round this house for
thirty-five years, quite apart from the fact that in her own vinegar way
she really did love my aunt.”

McGillivray thought, “This is a very intelligent young man—and that
will be a pleasant change.” Aloud he said,

“Imphm. Would ye say she was truthful?”

“I don’t know that I ever thought about it one way or the other.”

“Would ye say that she’d give an accurate account of a conversation?”

“She has been giving you an account of a conversation?”

“Imphm—with Mrs. Maquisten. Would it be accurate?”

Dennis sat looking straight in front of him. In the end he said,

“I can’t answer that.”

“With regard to this particular conversation, maybe not. But ye can tell
me whether she is a pairson who would repeat a conversation accurately
in a general way.”

“I think so.”

McGillivray nodded.

“The less education a pairson has, the more accurately they will
repeat—that is my expeerience. There’s a sense of drama which education
appears to eleeminate. Ye’ll find it in children. They’ll not just tell
ye a thing—they’ll act it for ye. It conveys a very veevid impression.
Imphm.”

Dennis took a moment. Then he said,

“What impression did Ellen give you?”

“A very veevid one, Mr. Harland.”

“What did she say?”

Looking at him straight and full, McGillivray said,

“She affirmed that it was Miss Silence whose name was to be cut out of
Mrs. Maquisten’s will.”

Dennis had known that it was coming—he had braced himself to hear it
said. But there is something about the spoken word which exceeds
anticipation. There was in this case the stern warning note in
McGillivray’s voice.

He did not wince, but effort drove the flush from his cheeks. He sat
there grey and rigid. And then without warning the door opened and Carey
came in.

A little across the threshold, she saw McGillivray, checked, and took a
half step back. He said,

“Come in, Miss Silence. There’s something I would like to ask ye. Come
in and sit down.”

Carey advanced slowly. She was very pale. Unlike Nora, she had used no
lipstick. Her black hair made her look paler still. Her eyes between the
shading lashes seemed almost as dark. As she came she looked at Dennis.
McGillivray saw her draw a quick breath. Then she sat down and
transferred her gaze to him.

“What is it?”

“Just a question as to a matter of fact,” said McGillivray. “Have ye a
banking account, Miss Silence?”

Her lips just parted to say “No.”

“An account in the Post Office savings bank?”

She shook her head.

“Am I to understand that ye have no financial assets?”

She said in a tired, gentle voice,

“I hadn’t any money except what I brought with me and five pounds that
Cousin Honoria gave me.”

“And how much did ye bring with ye?”

“Thirty shillings.”

“Then yer total assets would be six pound ten?”

Dennis Harland said quickly, “For that matter, we’re all in the same
boat. We’ve none of us got anything you could call private means except
Robert. If they chuck me out of the Air Force, I suppose I shall have a
wound pension. Nora’s husband has nothing but his pay—if he’s killed
she’ll get about two hundred a year. Honor hasn’t got a halfpenny. My
aunt has been extremely generous to us all.”

McGillivray looked at him tolerantly. After a moment he nodded and
turned back to Carey.

“Ye’re not so long out of hospital?”

“About a fortnight.”

“And ye were advised to take a rest. For how long?”

“Three months.”

Dennis broke in.

“There would be no question of my cousin going to work until she was
fit, whatever happened.”

“Would she know that?” said McGillivray. His voice was deep and stern.
Without waiting for an answer he pushed back his chair and got up—a big
man, loosely built, rather portentous. “Ah well,” he said, “I’ll be
back.”

He passed them, went out of the room, and shut the door.

Carey got up too, but it seemed as if the movement had been instinctive,
for when she was up she just stood there, doing nothing, saying nothing.
She saw Dennis take hold of his crutch and get up too. So there they
were, facing one another, quite close together, and not a word to say.
It was strange and desolating. They looked at one another, and had
nothing to say. She thought how grey he was.

And then suddenly the flush was in his cheeks again, his eyes bright as
coals. He said,

“Why did you do it?”

Carey stared at him, her face stupid with the shock—no intelligence, no
protest—just a blank.

He leaned a little forward, dropping his voice.

“Why did you? You didn’t have to. We’d have looked after you—I’d have
looked after you. You might have known.”

She said almost inaudibly, “I don’t know what you mean.”

They stood staring at each other. When he saw that she was about to
speak he turned abruptly and went limping out of the room.




                                  XXI


Jeff Stewart came back next day. He arrived on the doorstep of No. 13 at
the same time as a thickset elderly man with a heavy, serious face and
greying hair which had once been red. As they stood together and waited
for the door to open, Jeff wondered who his companion might be. Not so
many people would be calling before noon at a house where the mistress
lay dead, and it wanted twenty minutes or so of twelve o’clock. His mind
was full of Carey, whom he hadn’t seen for ten days, but he couldn’t
help wondering who was calling with him. Family? Lawyer? Or a
combination of the two? Family lawyer—yes, that would be it.

As the thought went through his mind, Mark Aylwin’s frown deepened. He
pressed the bell again. Almost before his hand had time to drop, the
door swung in, showing Molly, her face so swollen with crying as to be
almost unrecognizable. When she saw them both she began to cry again, as
noisy and uncontrolled as if she had been half her age. Remembering that
this was Thursday, and that Mrs. Maquisten had been dead since Monday
night, Jeff wondered whether she had been crying like this all the time,
and why. He got a kind of horror quite suddenly.

And then Mr. Aylwin was saying, sternly but not unkindly,

“Now, Molly, control yourself. You mustn’t add to the trouble.”

She gave a convulsive sob.

“Oh, _sir_!”

Jeff turned.

“I expect your business will be with the family. I’ve just come to see
Miss Silence.” He turned back again. “Where is she, Molly? Will you let
her know.”

There was a fresh storm of sobs.

Mr. Aylwin said, “I think we had better go to the study.” He took Molly
by the shoulder and shook her. “Stop crying at once! And tell Mr. Dennis
we’re here.”

But the opening of the study door showed Dennis Harland at the
writing-table. There was a sheet of paper before him and a pen in his
hand. The nib was dry and the sheet blank. He had still that grey, cold
look.

Mr. Aylwin went across to him.

“My dear boy—no, don’t get up. I can’t tell you how sorry I am. And
that I should have been away—most, most unfortunate.” He moved aside to
draw up a chair, leaving Jeff Stewart looking down at Dennis and feeling
the horror rise in him.

“I won’t butt in. I expect you have business. I’ll just say how sorry I
am and go up and see Carey.”

A muscle twitched in Dennis’s cheek.

“Mr. Aylwin is my aunt’s legal adviser. I don’t think you’ve met him.”

“No.” He made a half turn and held out a hand. “How do you do, sir? I’m
Jefferson Stewart. I’m some kind of a cousin of Carey’s, and I’m over
from the States on Lease-Lend business. I’m very sorry to hear about
this. Cousin Honoria was very good to me. Well, you’ll be wanting to
talk to Dennis. I’ll go up and see Carey.”

Dennis said in a curious expressionless voice,

“You can’t.”

“Why can’t I?”

“Because she isn’t here.”

Jeff stared at him.

“Why isn’t she here?”

“Because she’s been arrested.” He sounded tired. That was all—just
rather flat and tired.

The words appeared to produce a numbing effect. Jeff went on staring.

“They’ve arrested _Carey_? What for?”

“For poisoning Aunt Honoria.”

He went back a pace.

“But it’s nonsense!”

“I’m afraid not. She did it.”

“If you’d got two legs, I’d wring your neck for that,” said Jefferson
Stewart softly.

Dennis met the dangerous spark in his eyes.

“You’d be saving me a lot of trouble.”

Mr. Aylwin interposed.

“This is a shock to you, Mr. Stewart. It’s been a shock to everyone.
I’ve been away in Scotland, and I’ve only just got back. I can imagine
that you don’t find it very easy to believe. It has obviously been a
very great shock to Dennis. I must ask you to remember his state of
health. Recriminations will not help Carey Silence. I suggest that you
sit down and listen to what Dennis has to say. I have myself seen Chief
Inspector McGillivray this morning. I have also seen my head clerk, Mr.
Hood. I’m afraid there is a very strong case against your cousin.”

Jeff Stewart made no attempt to sit down. He loomed up in the middle of
the room, and dominated it with that bright dangerous gleam in his eye
and the soft drawl of his voice.

“What case?” he said.

Aylwin told him, putting the unbelievable accusation into brief,
methodical words. The penniless girl, not too sure of her health or her
ability to earn her living, a fortune just within her grasp, the
prospect of ease and plenty. Then something—nobody knew what—coming up
out of the past to wreck it all, and the temptation to save herself and
be secure.

When he had done, Jeff Stewart said,

“If Carey wanted money, there was mine. I’ve plenty. We were going to be
married. There’s no motive.”

“That will be for the defence.” Aylwin did not look at him. “The case is
strong enough, even if the jury believe what you have just said. Two
witnesses identify her with the person Mrs. Maquisten would have cut out
of her will if she had lived over Monday night.”

Jeff turned away from him.

“You think she did it, Dennis? Why?”

The muscle twitched again.

“She knew about the sleeping-draught—I came down and told her. If I
hadn’t done that I could have said she couldn’t have known Aunt Honoria
was going to take anything. But she did know. She knew Magda was going
out, and that the draught was going to be left for Ellen to give her. I
came down and told her the whole thing myself. She had only to walk into
the bathroom and put the extra tablets in.”

“Are you going to tell them that?”

“They haven’t asked me yet.”

“Are you going to tell them?”

Dennis looked away, looked down, stared at the blotting-pad and the
blank sheet that lay there. He said,

“She did it.”




                                  XXII


When Carey looked back she could see all the things which led up to her
arrest. They were quite clear and distinct. One followed upon the other,
inexorably, logically. But she stopped short always before the actual
moment. It was like the step between life and death. Up to one
particular moment you were alive; after that moment you were what people
called dead—somewhere else. But would you remember the actual step
between these two states? She didn’t think you would. Up to one
particular moment and one particular day she was one of millions of
other people who had their troubles and their difficulties, but who were
free and who could look to the law for protection. Then, with a sudden
jarring shock, she had passed a barrier which irrevocably divided her
from all these people into a state where the law no longer existed to
protect, but to restrain, to punish, and to kill. She could not force
her mind to the moment of transition.

Memory took up again on the other side of it. Moments passed—minutes,
hours, days, weeks—with a dragging slowness, but somehow outside time.
Because in time its divisions are related, linked with the past and with
the future. But to Carey there was only Now—a present which imprisoned
her more surely than her body was imprisoned. Now it was Monday, now
Tuesday. Now it was December, now January. It didn’t matter what they
called it, it was Now.

There were interruptions—days on which for a brief space the outside
world of time broke in. There was the day when she was told that her
solicitor was waiting to see her, and when she said she hadn’t got a
solicitor the wardress said firmly of course she had, someone would see
to that, and she must come along and talk to him.

Mr. Mordaunt, sitting at one end of a long, bare table, had his first
sight of his client as the wardress brought her in, indicated a chair at
the other end, and withdrew out of earshot to keep an eye upon her
charge through a glass panel in the upper part of the door. He thought
Miss Carey Silence very young, very pale. If he knew anything about
it—and having been a warden all through the blitz, he was not without
experience—she was suffering badly from shock.

He was about to address her, when she lifted a pair of very beautiful
dark blue eyes and said,

“I’m so sorry—I don’t know your name.”

Mr. Mordaunt began to explain himself, but he had not got beyond the
name of his firm, when she spoke again.

“I haven’t got any money.”

“You haven’t got to trouble about that, Miss Silence.”

“I have only six pound ten, and that wouldn’t be enough.”

Shock—that was what made people talk like that, straight out of
whatever it was they had on their minds. It destroyed the ordinary
inhibitions, and they just came out with whatever they were thinking.
Could be useful, or precious awkward. Suppose she started to tell him
that she’d done it—people in a state of shock will tell you anything.
He began to talk in a hurry.

“Miss Silence, will you listen to me. I can’t stay very long, and there
are a number of things I want to say, but before I say any of them let
me assure you that you do not have to trouble about the money side of
this. If, as we hope, we are able to bring this off, you will yourself
have ample means.”

She interrupted quite gently.

“But if you don’t bring me off——”

Her eyes were fixed steadily upon his face. He found it a little
disconcerting. He said,

“I should have said at once that a member of your family is making
himself responsible.”

“Dennis?”

“Mr. Harland? Well, no.”

She echoed the last word.

“No—Dennis thinks I did it.”

Mr. Mordaunt made haste to block this uninviting path.

“It is not Mr. Harland. It is Mr. Stewart—Mr. Jefferson Stewart.”

Her lids wavered and fell. She leaned back. Very slowly a faint colour
stained that very white skin. Very slowly it ebbed again. All through
the interview that followed she was quiet, gentle, lifeless.

Mr. Mordaunt went away and told Mr. Jefferson Stewart that if she went
into court that way they might as well throw in their hand.

“There’s a stiff case against her. We shall try and shake their
witnesses of course, but in the long run the witness who matters most in
a murder case is always the accused. And a young girl’s got a pull.
She’s got her youth, she’s got her looks. If she makes a good impression
she’ll get the benefit of the doubt—and we ought to be able to contrive
a useful doubt or two. Then she can take advantage of it. But not if she
goes into court like this. They’ll take one look at her and make sure
she did it.”

Jeff Stewart, standing up tall against the mantelpiece, looked down on
him and said,

“Is that what you did?”

Mr. Mordaunt rubbed a jutting chin. Rather thick horn-rimmed lenses
concealed the expression of his eyes.

“Well, no, Mr. Stewart. But then I had a reason, and if you’re going to
expect reason from a jury——”

“What reason had you?”

“Well, I don’t mind telling you. When she came in I thought she looked
crushed, and I thought very likely it was remorse—and that’s what the
jury’s going to think if she doesn’t pull up out of it. But I didn’t go
on thinking it, and for the reason that when she began to talk I could
see the state she was in, and it was shock. I’ve seen too many people
like it not to know. She just said everything that was in her mind like
a child of five, and at first I was afraid of what she might be going to
say. And then I wasn’t, because there wasn’t anything that mattered. If
there had been it would have come out, the way she was. That’s my
belief, and I feel pretty sure about it. I don’t think she did it,
because if she had she’d have come out with it. We’ve got to rouse her
up. She’s got to fight.”

Mr. Stewart nodded.

As a result of this conversation another and very different one took
place a couple of days later. Just what Jeff Stewart did to bring it
about is neither here nor there. He had some good friends, a persuasive
tongue, and a considerable latent force of perseverance upon which to
draw. In the end he found himself sitting where Mordaunt had sat some
forty-eight hours before, looking down the length of the same bare table
at Carey Silence, only this time the wardress stood inside the door and
could certainly hear everything they said. His mind registered that and
put it away. It didn’t matter at all. What mattered was that Carey
should want to live and be ready to fight for her life. If anything he
could do or say would subserve this end, the whole of London might
listen in for all he cared. He was, in sober fact, prepared to tell the
world and Carey Silence how much he loved her.

He greeted her across the long, cold distance with the same informal
nod, the same half lazy smile, the same “Hullo, Carey!” as if they had
parted yesterday and were meeting again to-morrow.

Carey didn’t speak at all. She sat down, she laid her hands in her lap,
she looked in his direction, but he might have been a table or a chair,
or he might not have been there at all. Something in him was appalled at
her remoteness. She seemed to be already withdrawn beyond his reach. But
he meant to reach her. He leaned over the table.

“Now look here, honey, we’ve got to talk. And you’ve got to listen.
You’re not listening. You’ve got to wake right up and listen.”

She did look at him then, but it was with an effort. Her eyes focussed
slowly.

He said, “That’s better. Now you keep listening to me, because I shan’t
be able to come again for quite a while. I’ve got to go back to the
States and make a report, but I’ll be over again before the case comes
on. Have you got that? Well now, Mr. Mordaunt will look after everything
for you. He is said to be the best man we could get—Mr. Aylwin
recommended him. He sees to the preparation of the defence, and he
briefs counsel to defend you in court. We don’t do it that way in the
States, but that’s the way it’s managed over here. Well, he’s briefing
Hugo Vane. He’ll be your counsel—counsel for the defence. You’ll be
having a conference with him presently, but Mordaunt fixes all that. In
fact Mordaunt fixes everything—you don’t have to bother. Have you got
that?”

“I don’t have to bother——”

“That’s right—Mordaunt takes care of everything. There’s just one thing
you’ve got to do, honey.”

“What?”

Well, he had her attention for what it was worth. He had a moment of
wondering how much it was worth. She looked like a sleep-walker. His
mind shied violently away from Lady Macbeth. He spoke in a hurry.

“You’ve got to help him.”

“How?”

“Honey, you’ve got to wake up! Where have you got to? You’re in some
kind of a dream. There isn’t any fight in you. You’ve got to wake up and
fight! What’s come to you?”

She looked faintly startled.

“I’m so tired, Jeff—I think it’s that. The doctor came to see me this
morning. He says they let me out of hospital too soon. He’s going to
send me to bed again. He’s very kind.”

He felt a certain relief. She did look desperately tired. If she was in
a sick ward she’d be taken care of. He said,

“That’s fine. You rest all you can, and then you get ready to fight.
Promise?”

“I’ll try, Jeff.”

“I want to tell you why you’ve got to try. You’re feeling weak and
tired, and you’ve had a shock, but there’s a lot of life left for both
of us, honey, and I’m never going to believe that you haven’t got the
guts to put up a fight, because it isn’t just your life, it’s mine. If
you throw your life away you’re throwing mine after it as far as its
being any use to me goes. Let’s get down to brass tacks. Everything in
my life that matters depends on whether you’re going to fight this or
not. I reckon I’m looking at it from a very selfish point of view, but
if I have to go on living without you for the next fifty years—and as a
family we run well into the nineties—there won’t be one minute of all
that time that I won’t know I’ve missed what we’re meant to get out of
life, and that I won’t feel you let me down because you hadn’t got the
guts to fight. As I said, it’s my point of view, but there are times
when you’ve got to put your point of view, and this is one of them. The
first time I saw you I knew that I was going to marry you. I don’t mean
to say that I fell head over ears in love with you at first sight, but I
knew I was going to, and I did. That sort of thing doesn’t happen in
just that sort of way unless there’s something pretty strong between two
people. I don’t think it’s all on my side either. Things don’t happen
that way—not with the kind of feeling I’ve got about you. So we’ve got
something to fight for.”

When he began to speak she was looking at him, but as he went on she
leaned forward over the table and put up her hands to cover her face.
When he had finished and she looked up again her eyes were wet.

“Jeff——”

“Yes?”

“Don’t mind so much.”

He smiled at her.

“It’s no good—the mischief’s done. It’s up to you. What about it?”

“I’ll try.”




                                 XXIII


The court was crowded. Carey looked down on a sea of heads, a sea of
faces. Most of them were looking at her. She had that moment of feeling
that she had been stripped and set there for them to see. She turned
giddy, but she held herself quiet and straight. Whatever happened, she
mustn’t shrink, or let them see that she felt naked there. She had come
to an inner strength that held her up. When things were so bad that they
couldn’t be any worse, something came to you—some courage, some
control.

She looked over the heads of all the people and rested her eyes upon the
judge—the crimson of his robes, the grey horsehair of his wig, the
little brown wrinkled face that reminded her of a squirrel.

She stood up for the indictment, and then they gave her a chair again.
Sir Wilbury Fossett made his opening speech, which was rather like the
day of judgment, because it set out all the things which had happened in
that November fortnight, and instead of being innocent they were
sinister—things she had forgotten, things that didn’t mean anything at
all, things it would be quite easy to explain if they would let her
speak. He was building them up into the case against Carey Silence. All
his skill, all his experience, his big handsome presence, his fine
voice, his bland and easy manner, were being used for just one end—to
prove that Carey Silence had done murder.

After a little she stopped looking at the judge. She looked down instead
at her own folded hands. They were bare, and they looked very white
against the black of her skirt. Nora had sent her the coat and skirt to
wear, with an odd impulsive note—“Better wear black. It always goes
down well. This is with my love. I’ve hardly worn it. I look a fiend in
mourning, and nobody wears it now, but it will be better for you. And I
_don’t_ believe you did it. Nora.”

She went on looking down at her hands. Sir Wilbury stopped speaking.

All through the evidence of arrest, the medical evidence, the formal
admission of Honoria Maquisten’s will, she sat like that.

A police witness deposed to examining the bottle which had contained the
sleeping-tablets. The bottle was produced in court. It contained three
white pellets. Witness testified to finding it in the small
glass-fronted cupboard in the bathroom adjoining Mrs. Maquisten’s room,
and to testing it for fingerprints. There were no fingerprints. The
bottle contained three tablets.

When the court rose for lunch Mr. Mordaunt had a word of encouragement
for Jefferson Stewart, back again from the States and looking as if he
was short of sleep.

“Not a bad start, you know. That black thing suits her. No harm her
keeping her eyes down—looks modest. Made me a bit uneasy, the way she
kept looking at the judge to start with. I don’t suppose she knew she
was doing it. Well, he got a good view of her eyes, and you can’t say
they’re not worth looking at. There’s something about them too. Kind of
tragic innocence. Daresay it didn’t do any harm. Even judges are human.”
He chuckled. “Very human, some of them. Strange, but true.”

Molly James was the first witness after lunch. Scarlet and very nearly
inaudible, she testified to finding a letter on the front door mat at
between a quarter and half past two and taking it up to Mrs. Maquisten.
There was no stamp on it. It must have been left by hand. She thought
she had seen the writing before. It was all straight up and down. But
she couldn’t say whose it was. Oh, no, she couldn’t. And Mrs. Maquisten
was angry, and called her back and asked for the young ladies and for
Mr. Harland, but they were out, and she said to send them up as soon as
they came in, whichever one come first.

Marten Lanthony, Sir Wilbury Fossett’s junior, had been shepherding her
along. He asked,

“And who did come first, Miss James?”

With a loud sob Molly said,

“Miss Carey.”

A tall, thin young man who was junior counsel for the defence stood up
and said in a pleasant conversational voice,

“Please don’t cry, Miss James. I just want to ask you whether Mrs.
Maquisten said anything more about Miss Silence.”

Molly gulped and stared. She thought him a very nice gentleman,
especially when he gave her an encouraging smile and went on quite
informally.

“Try and remember, will you. She asked you if any of the young ladies
were in. Did she put it just like that, or did she ask for them
separately?”

Molly blinked.

“She asked for Miss Honor—Miss King, that is. And then she asked for
Miss Nora—Mrs. Hull. And then she asked for Mr. Dennis and Miss
Carey—and they was all out.”

“What did Mrs. Maquisten say when you told her Miss King was out?”

“She was angry.”

“And when you told her Mrs. Hull was out?”

“She was angry, sir.”

“And when you told her Mr. Harland and Miss Silence were out?”

“She was angry.”

“Was she angry in just the same way as when you told her that the others
were out?”

“Oh, yes, sir.”

“And after that did she say anything more about Miss Silence?”

“No, sir, she didn’t. She just told me to send them up to her as soon as
they come in, whichever one come first.”

“Thank you, Miss James.”

Molly stepped down, a little regretful now that it was over. She
wouldn’t have minded going on answering the nice young gentleman’s
questions—called her Miss James and ever so pleasant.

“Call Magda Brayle!”

A neat, upright figure in nurse’s dress stepping up into the
witness-box, taking the oath in a clear, unhurried voice. Carey lifted
her eyes for a moment. Magda hadn’t changed a bit. It seemed as if
everybody must have changed, but Magda hadn’t. She was prompt and
audible in her replies. She knew just what she had to say and she said
it. She might have been answering questions about a patient’s
temperature.

At about 2.15 on the afternoon of Monday, November 16th, she was in the
bathroom adjoining Mrs. Maquisten’s bedroom. The communicating door was
ajar. She heard Molly James come in and say, “There’s a letter,” and a
little after that she heard Mrs. Maquisten call her back. Her voice was
very angry. She asked for Miss King and Mrs. Hull. When Molly said they
were out she asked for Mr. Harland and Miss Silence. When Molly told her
they were out too she said to send up the first one that came in.

Sir Wilbury asked in the fine voice which could make any question seem
more important than it was,

“And who was the first to come in?”

“Miss Silence—about half an hour later.”

“Were you still in the bathroom with the door ajar?”

“Yes.”

“Did you hear what was said?”

“I couldn’t hear much of what Miss Silence said. I could hear what Mrs.
Maquisten said because she was speaking in a loud, angry voice, except
at the beginning, when she seemed as if she was choking with anger.”

“Will you tell us what you heard.”

“Miss Silence came in and said, ‘What is it, Cousin Honoria?’ And that
was where Mrs. Maquisten began to choke. I heard her say something about
being deceived, and I heard Miss Silence say, ‘_Please_, Cousin
Honoria——’ and things like that, as if she was trying to soothe her
down. Mrs. Maquisten was getting angrier all the time. Her voice got
loud again. I heard her tell Miss Silence that she was to ring up her
solicitor and tell him to come round at once, and to bring her will,
because she was going to alter it.”

“Did Miss Silence appear to be willing to do this?”

“Oh, no—she kept trying to soothe her. In the end Mrs. Maquisten was
fairly raging. She said, ‘I’ve been deceived, and deceit is what I won’t
put up with!’ A little later on she said that again—‘I won’t put up
with deceit, and I won’t put up with disobedience, Carey. Either you
ring Mr. Aylwin up at once, or I send for Magda to do it. You needn’t
think you can stop me, and you needn’t think you can get me to change my
mind!’ Then Miss Silence rang up. I heard her give the message. Then she
said, ‘Cousin Honoria, Mr. Aylwin is in Scotland. He may be away for a
day or two.’ And Mrs. Maquisten said, ‘Tell Hood he’s to come—Mr. Hood,
the head clerk! Say you must speak to him!’”

“You need not go any farther than that—Mr. Hood will tell us what was
said. Did anything more pass between Miss Silence and Mrs. Maquisten?”

“Not very much. Mrs. Maquisten said, ‘I’ll have to rest. You’d better
go. It isn’t good for me to be angry like this,’ and Miss Silence said,
‘I’m so sorry, Cousin Honoria.’”

Carey lifted her eyes again. She remembered saying that. She remembered
Cousin Honoria with the flush fading from her face and the lines of
fatigue cut deep. She saw herself going out of the room and shutting the
door behind her. The whole scene came up as vividly as a dream. The
things that had happened since were blotted out.

Magda went on giving her evidence—about being sent out of the way when
Mr. Hood arrived—about the sleeping-draught—about Mrs. Maquisten’s
insistence that she should take her evening off—about what Mr. Harland
had said.

“Mr. Harland was present when this was under discussion?”

“Yes. Mrs. Maquisten became very much excited, so Mr. Harland suggested
that I should do what she wished. It wasn’t at all good for her to be
excited. He suggested leaving the sleeping-draught ready for her maid
Ellen Bridling to give her.”

A lot of questions about the sleeping-draught. . . . Yes, it was the one
Mrs. Maquisten was in the habit of taking. . . . No, she didn’t take it
very often—sometimes not for weeks at a time. She only had one tablet
as a rule, but if she was not asleep by eleven, Dr. Adams said she could
have a second one. The tablets had to be dissolved because she couldn’t
swallow anything like a pill—she was nervous and said it made her
choke. The tablets dissolved quite easily in hot water—they didn’t take
more than a minute or two to dissolve.

“And how many tablets did you dissolve on the evening of November 16th?”

“One.”

“Are you sure of that, Miss Brayle?”

“Positive.”

There seemed to be no end to the questions about the tablets. Magda
answered them all with the same unruffled calm. She had tipped three out
into her hand and dissolved one of them in a third of a medicine-glass
of hot water. . . . Yes, that was the glass. She had left it standing on
the shelf above the wash-basin in the bathroom. When she had put back
the spare tablets there must have been eight or nine left in the bottle.
She did not count them, but there would be about that number. When Chief
Detective Inspector McGillivray showed her the bottle after Mrs.
Maquisten’s death there were only three tablets in it. He asked her
whether she had wiped the bottle, and she said no.

“And did you wipe the bottle, Miss Brayle?”

A faint surprised tinge in Magda’s voice.

“Oh, no.”

“Can you account for the fact that no fingerprints were found upon it?”

“No, I can’t.”

“Your hands were bare when you handled it?”

“Oh, yes.”

“You did not take hold of it with a towel, or a handkerchief, or
anything of that sort?”

“Oh, no. I took the bottle up in my right hand and shook the tablets out
into my left. I put the bottle down whilst I dropped one tablet into the
glass. Then I picked it up again, tipped the spare tablets back, and put
it away in the cupboard.”

Questions as to who might have known where the tablets were kept.
Questions designed to elicit the fact that the cupboard was used as a
medicine-cupboard—that anyone in the house could have known this—that
the cupboard was in any case the first and most obvious place in which
to look.

Sir Wilbury gathered up his gown with a characteristic gesture.

“Do you know of any occasion when Miss Silence came into Mrs.
Maquisten’s bathroom?”

“Yes.”

“When was that?”

“On the Monday morning.”

“The morning of Monday, November 16th?”

“Yes.”

“Will you describe what happened.”

“I had been dusting the cupboard shelves. I had all the bottles out and
was beginning to put them back, when Miss Silence came through from the
bedroom and said Mrs. Maquisten wanted her smelling-salts. I gave them
to her, and she went back again.”

“She could have seen what you were doing?”

“Oh, yes. She took a good look and said, ‘What a lot of bottles!’”

Again Carey remembered very sharply. All those bottles. And she had been
sorry for Cousin Honoria. . . .

Well, they were finished with the tablets at last. Magda was telling how
she had gone out and come home, how she had stood at the connecting door
and listened, how she had undressed and gone to bed. Then, in the
morning, Ellen coming in frightened because her mistress hadn’t waked
when she drew the curtains back, and Magda going through to find Honoria
Maquisten dead.

Sir Wilbury had finished with his witness. He sat down. Counsel for the
defence rose to cross-examine. Carey found herself looking at him with
strained attention.

After Sir Wilbury’s massive build and handsome presence, Hugo Vane
looked like a schoolboy who had somehow reached middle age without
growing up. He must have been a cheerful, chubby child with a tendency
to bulge. His brown eyes twinkled. His cheeks were round and rosy. The
tendency to bulge was perhaps a little more marked. Seen through a
diminishing-glass and at a little distance, he might have been a
schoolboy still, dressed up in wig and gown. When he began to speak his
voice had the same youthful quality. It had none of the vibrations, the
range of tone, which Sir Wilbury could command. It was just a fresh,
pleasant voice. Speaking to Jeff Stewart, Mr. Mordaunt had commended it.
“Makes everything sound easy. Keeps the jury feeling how bright they
are. Pleases them.”

In this agreeable voice he now put a number of questions to Magda
Brayle. She had been in the bathroom during Mrs. Maquisten’s interview
with Miss Silence? Washing handkerchiefs, wasn’t she? How long did that
take? She had been washing them half an hour before, when Molly James
brought up that letter? Very troublesome handkerchiefs to wash, weren’t
they? And the door was ajar all the time?

Under his skilful management Nurse Brayle began to look like a very
deliberate eavesdropper.

“You were in the habit of listening to Mrs. Maquisten’s private
conversations?”

“Certainly not!”

“But you did a good deal of listening on that Monday afternoon.”

“I had to consider Mrs. Maquisten’s health. It wasn’t at all good for
her to be excited.”

“Mrs. Maquisten was excited?”

“She was very much excited.”

“Sufficiently so to make you nervous as to the effect of this excitement
upon her health?”

“Oh, yes.”

“Now, Miss Brayle—what were the relations between Mrs. Maquisten and
Miss Silence? I am not asking you about this particular afternoon, but
about the preceding fortnight.”

“Mrs. Maquisten had taken a great fancy to Miss Silence. She was very
fond of her.”

“She showed her a good deal of affection?”

“Oh, yes.”

“And what about Miss Silence—did she return this affection?”

“She seemed to.”

“They were on terms of mutual affection?”

“It looked as if they were.”

“Now, Miss Brayle—during this conversation, part of which you
overheard, you have said that Mrs. Maquisten was very much excited, and
you have said that excitement was bad for her health. Would not anyone
who was fond of her have done what they could to calm this excitement?”

“I suppose so.”

“You have said in your evidence that Miss Silence did, in fact, use
every endeavour to soothe and calm her cousin. That is so, is it not?”

“Yes.” There was a little pause before the word.

“I put it to you that during the whole of this interview all that Miss
Silence said and did was compatible with an affectionate desire to calm
and soothe a state of excitement which was obviously not at all good for
an invalid. Yes or no, Miss Brayle.”

For the first time a slight flush came to Magda’s face. She said,

“Yes.”

“Now, to go back to the beginning of this conversation which you
overheard. Miss Silence came in and said, ‘What is it, Cousin Honoria?’
and Mrs. Maquisten said something about being deceived. I should like to
get that a little clearer if we can. Can you give us her exact words?”

“I don’t know that I can. She was choking with anger. It was something
about being deceived.”

“Was it ‘I have been deceived’?”

“Yes—something like that.”

“Miss Brayle, I am very anxious to get this clear. Did Mrs. Maquisten
use these words, ‘I have been deceived’? Please think very carefully
before you answer. Did she say, ‘I have been deceived’?”

“Yes, she did.”

“Will you swear that she said those words?”

“Yes.”

“She didn’t say, ‘You have deceived me, Carey’?”

“I didn’t hear her say that.”

“But you heard her say, ‘I have been deceived’?”

“Yes.”




                                  XXIV


Mr. Mordaunt was in good spirits at the end of the day. Hugo Vane had
not been able to shake Magda Brayle as to the number of tablets in the
bottle, but Mr. Mordaunt considered that he had got home on the jury
with the impression that Nurse Brayle was a deliberate eavesdropper, and
that she had a definite bias against Carey Silence.

“Nine of them men. Men don’t like a woman running another woman down,
especially when there doesn’t seem to be any reason for it—looks like
spite. I don’t think they liked it. Don’t think they cottoned to Miss
Magda Brayle. What’s at the back of it? Why has she got her knife into
Miss Silence? She has, you know. I’d like to know why.”

Jeff Stewart raised his eyebrows.

“Just plain jealousy, I should say. Mrs. Maquisten didn’t like her, and
did like Carey.”

Mr. Mordaunt pricked up his ears.

“Oh—Mrs. Maquisten didn’t like her?”

“No one liked her much.”

“Why did she keep her?”

Jeff shrugged.

“Don’t make too much of it. I don’t say she disliked her, or that any of
them did. Magda just didn’t mix. A bit of a cold fish, I should say, and
they were a friendly crowd.” His face darkened as he added, “They were
very friendly to me.”

“But not to Miss Brayle?”

“Magda wasn’t friendly. But I don’t mind betting she’d resent their
being friendly to Carey, and she’d resent Mrs. Maquisten making a lot of
her and giving her things.”

Mr. Mordaunt nodded, then looked slily sideways.

“When you said they were such a friendly lot—were you including Miss
King?”

Jeff’s smile felt stiff these days. He had the feeling himself that it
must creak. He said,

“Oh, Honor King doesn’t count.”

They went on talking about the case, and all the time his heart and mind
cried out to Carey. She hadn’t looked at him once all through the long,
difficult day. She had looked at the judge. She had looked every now and
again at Sir Wilbury, at Hugo Vane, at Magda Brayle, but for the most
part she had looked down at the bare hands lying in her lap. She had not
looked once at the jury, and she had never looked at him.

He found her changed. The dazed air had gone. She was pale, but she no
longer seemed as if she might slip away at any moment into a swoon. She
seemed stronger. Her eyes when she lifted them were a clear, deep blue.
She didn’t look ill any more. She didn’t even look as if she were under
a heavy strain. She was quiet and withdrawn. He felt an uprush of
confidence and hope, because it didn’t seem possible to him that twelve
ordinary, normal people could be made to believe that Carey would harm
anyone.

He began to think about the jury—not as a jury, but as individuals.
Three of them were women. A rather hatchet-faced spinster with a
militant eye and the air of having sat diligently on committees since
the beginning of the century. Well, you never knew how it would take
that sort. Some of them were all for a fellow woman—some of them
weren’t. He found her unpredictable. The little faded blonde was much
easier. He knew her kind—line of least resistance—slide and let slide.
God! To think of Carey’s life in those inefficient hands! The third
woman cheered him a good bit. She looked the sort of stout, comfortable
person who has brought up a family and made a good job of it. Her heavy
face was set in lines of kindness and commonsense. Of the men, the
foreman had a handsome, forcible face. Mordaunt supplied the information
that he was a builder and contractor. He looked as if he would be fond
of his own way. He probably had a meek, adoring wife, and children whom
he ruled with benevolent despotism. For the rest, there was a little
rabbit of a man with a twitching nose, a bovine man with an air of
impenetrable stupidity, a man with a long neck and an abnormally active
Adam’s apple, a rather wild-looking person with red hair and a swivel
eye, a man with retired government servant stamped all over him, a man
with a ginger moustache, a man with a beard, and a man with a bald head.
There they were all day today, and there they would be all day tomorrow,
making up their minds whether Carey was to live or die.

And there wasn’t anything he could do.




                                  XXV


“Call Ernest Hood!”

As Mr. Hood stepped up into the box and took the oath, Carey was
thinking that you could get used to anything. Today was not so dreadful
as yesterday. She knew what the court was going to look like before she
came into it. The judge was a familiar figure, Sir Wilbury no longer an
ogre of her imagination, but a big, good-looking man with a fine voice.
She looked for the first time at the jury, and found them reassuringly
commonplace—the kind of people you saw in a cinema or in church, just
everyday men and women. The nightmare sense of distortion lessened. The
scene became just a court of law, a place where people were trying to
bring the truth to light. She turned her head a little, and met Jeff
Stewart’s look. Across the crowded court it said, “Carey, I’m here.
Carey, I love you.” Her colour rose, her eyes dazzled. She had to look
away.

Under the guidance of Sir Wilbury, Ernest Hood was explaining himself.
He was Mr. Aylwin’s head clerk. The firm was Aylwin and Clutterbuck, but
Mr. Clutterbuck had retired. All Mrs. Maquisten’s affairs went through
their hands. At about 3 o’clock on the afternoon of Monday November 16th
he was called to the telephone. Miss Silence said that Mrs. Maquisten
wished him to come round to 13, Maitland Square immediately, and to
bring with him the will which she had executed about a week previously.

“Was this the will which has been proved and admitted in evidence?”

“Yes.”

“Is Miss Silence a beneficiary under this will?”

“She is.”

“To what extent?”

“Fifty thousand pounds, and jewellery which has been valued for probate
at ten thousand.”

“Did you go round to Maitland Square?”

“Yes, I got there about half past three.”

“Did you take the will with you?”

“No—it was locked in the safe. Mr. Aylwin was in Scotland, and he had
the key.”

“Will you describe your interview with Mrs. Maquisten.”

Mr. Hood passed a hand over his dark receding hair. Since it was already
as smooth as Brylcream and brushing could make it, the movement may be
taken to have been a nervous one. His light hazel eyes were fixed on Sir
Wilbury’s face. His manner was one of zealous attention. When he spoke
his voice was weak and throaty. He coughed once or twice as if to clear
it and murmured an excuse. But when he really got going he was quite
audible. Like everyone else who saw Honoria Maquisten that afternoon, he
described her as being very angry, very excited.

“She began the interview by asking if I had brought the will, and when I
said ‘No,’ she was in a great state of anger about Mr. Aylwin being away
and having taken the key of the safe. I had told Miss Silence on the
telephone that I should not be able to bring the will, and I heard her
pass the information on, but Mrs. Maquisten behaved as if she had
expected me to bring the will—she was really quite abusive.”

“Did she give any explanation of why she wished to make a new will?”

“Yes—she said over and over again and with great emphasis that she had
been deceived, and that no one need imagine that she could be deceived
with impunity. She said, ‘If you had brought the will as I desired you,
I would have had you burn it so that I might be sure it would be out of
harm’s way.’ I said that Mr. Aylwin would be back in a day or two, and
she said, ‘Anything may happen in a day or two’, and that she would
dictate a new will now and sign it to-morrow—she would dictate the
provisions now, and I was to have the will ready to sign at a quarter to
two next day. She said, ‘I’ll have them all there. They shall all hear
what I’ve got to say, and they shall all know my reasons for what I’m
going to do. I’ll have everything out in front of them.’ Then she told
me to take her instructions for the new will. She had a copy of the old
one in her hands. She dictated a good part of the will from that.
Bequests to charities and legacies to the staff were unchanged.”

“Can you indicate the nature of the changes she did propose to make?”

“Yes. In the previous will the bulk of the estate was divided more or
less equally between five legatees. The jewellery was also divided
between these legatees, though not in equal proportions.”

“Who were these five legatees?”

“They were Mr. Robert Maquisten, Mr. Dennis Harland, Mrs. Nora Hull,
Miss Honor King, and Miss Carey Silence.”

“How were these people related to Mrs. Maquisten?”

“Mr. Robert Maquisten and Miss King are the nephew and niece of Mrs.
Maquisten’s husband, the late Mr. James Maquisten. Mr. Harland and Miss
Hull are her own nephew and niece. Miss Silence is the granddaughter of
a first cousin.”

“But in the will admitted to probate her share is an equal one?”

“Her money share is an equal one. As far as the jewellery went, she was
to receive by far the most valuable portion.”

“That is under this old will—the will admitted to probate. What
disposition of her property did Mrs. Maquisten propose in the
instructions you took down on the afternoon of November 16th?”

Mr. Hood swallowed, cleared his throat, and said,

“She instructed me that the division of her property and of the
jewellery would fall into four portions, not five as in the previous
will.”

“What did you understand by that?”

Mr. Hood gazed at him earnestly and replied,

“I understood that she was cutting somebody out of her will.”

Sir Wilbury picked up his gown with a swish.

“And pray, what form did her instructions take?”

Mr. Hood looked very unhappy.

“She dictated provisions for bequests dividing her property into four,
with blanks left for the insertion of the names of the legatees. I don’t
know if I make myself clear.”

“You mean that the amounts of the legacies were to be filled in, but the
names of the legatees were to be left blank?”

“Yes, sir.”

“And when were these blanks to be filled in?”

“Next day, at a quarter to two. She said she would fill them in in the
presence of the legatees, and then affix her signature to the will. She
told me to arrange for two witnesses, whom she named, to be in
attendance.”

Sir Wilbury raised his voice a little.

“Mrs. Maquisten named two persons who were to witness her signature. Did
she name the person she was cutting out of her will?”

“No one was named.” There was a quite perceptible stress upon the verb.

“What do you mean by that, Mr. Hood?”

“I mean that I knew who it was”—a shade of defiance in the tone, a
jerky emphasis.

“Will you tell us how you could know that.”

“Mrs. Maquisten made it quite clear.”

“Will you tell us what she said.”

Mr. Hood gulped and cleared his throat.

“She said she had been deceived, and that she ought to have known,
because Ellen had warned her.”

“That is Ellen Bridling, her maid?”

“Yes. She said, ‘Ellen warned me, but I didn’t take any notice.’ I said,
‘Well, it’s not too late, Mrs. Maquisten,’ and she said, ‘Old friends
are best. Ellen’s faithful—she warned me. Up with the rocket and down
with the stick was what she said, but I wouldn’t listen.’ Then she said
that I was one of the steady-going ones, and it wouldn’t ever happen to
me. And she asked me, ‘How would you like to be a rocket? A stranger for
a week, an heiress for a week, and then down with the stick and a
stranger again.’ Well, I couldn’t help knowing who she meant.”

“Were those words applicable to one of the five legatees in the will
which has been admitted to probate?”

“Yes.”

“To which of them?”

“To Miss Silence.”

“In what respect?”

“She was a stranger when she came to the house. After she had been there
a week Mrs. Maquisten made a will under which she benefited very
considerably, and in another week Mrs. Maquisten was altering her will
again and cutting somebody out.”

“Will you repeat the exact words used by Mrs. Maquisten.”

Mr. Hood repeated them.

“She said, ‘A stranger for a week, an heiress for a week, and then down
with the stick and a stranger again.’”

Sir Wilbury’s voice was low and impressive.

“Was there any doubt in your mind as to the identity of the person
referred to in these words?”

Ernest Hood achieved a certain firmness of tone as he replied.

“None whatever.”




                                  XXVI


Hugo Vane rose to cross-examine. It was said of him that he never looked
so affable as when he had a difficult job in hand. He looked very
affable now. Mr. Hood, using a discreet navy-and-white handkerchief
which toned perfectly with a neat serge suit, was the recipient of a
sunny smile.

“Now, Mr. Hood, let us see if we can’t get all this a little clearer.
This interview of yours with Mrs. Maquisten—how long did it last?”

“About half an hour.”

“It didn’t take you all that time to write down the instructions for the
new will, I take it. There was some conversation as well?”

“Oh, yes.”

“A good deal of conversation?”

“Well, yes.”

“A good deal of rather excited conversation?”

“On Mrs. Maquisten’s side.”

“Yes—you said she was excited. And angry?”

“Very angry—very much upset.”

“Well now, you have testified to some remarks about a rocket and a
stick, following on a statement by Mrs. Maquisten to the effect that she
had been deceived. At what period of the interview were these remarks
made—at the beginning, in the middle, or towards the end?”

“Quite early on.”

“I see. And at what period of the interview was Mrs. Maquisten at her
angriest and most excitable? Would that be when you first went in?”

“I suppose so.”

An expression of surprise passed over Hugo Vane’s ingenuous face.

“You suppose so, Mr. Hood? Is your memory as bad as all that? You surely
do not wish us to infer that your recollection of this important
interview is such a hazy one! I see that I shall have to refresh your
memory. In your examination-in-chief you stated that you found Mrs.
Maquisten very angry, very excitable—that she was in great anger about
Mr. Aylwin being away, and that she was really quite abusive. You must
surely be able to remember whether her anger and excitement increased or
diminished from this point!”

“It increased while she was talking about being deceived. Afterwards,
when I was taking her instructions, she was more under control.”

“Then it was immediately after the ‘great state of anger’, when she was
‘really quite abusive’, that with a further increase of excitement and
anger she spoke of being deceived and made the remarks which you have
quoted about the rocket and the stick?”

“Yes.”

“Before she began to give you any instructions about her will?”

“Yes.”

“She said she had been deceived—that Ellen Bridling had warned her, but
she hadn’t taken any notice?”

“Yes.”

“She quoted a proverb about going up with a rocket and coming down with
a stick?”

“Yes.”

“She asked you how you would like to be a rocket?”

A murmur of laughter went through the court. Mr. Hood’s handkerchief
came out. He swallowed and said,

“Yes.”

“All these things were said whilst Mrs. Maquisten was still more
excited, still more angry than she had been when you described her as
being ‘in a great state of anger’ and ‘really quite abusive’?”

Mr. Hood passed the handkerchief over his forehead. He said,

“She was angry.”

“Come, Mr. Hood—you are not answering my question. Is this another case
of faulty recollection? This is a very important interview, you know. I
am afraid I must go on until we get the matter quite clear. Let me help
that memory of yours. You have just stated on oath that the great state
of anger and excitement in which you found Mrs. Maquisten when you
described her as ‘really quite abusive’ had increased whilst she was
talking about being deceived. You don’t wish to go back on that, do
you?”

“No—of course not.”

“Then you agree that those remarks about being deceived, about Ellen
Bridling’s warning, about the rocket and the stick, the question to
yourself as to how you would like to be a rocket, were all made, and the
question put, during the time when Mrs. Maquisten was in a state of
uncontrolled excitement and anger?”

“I didn’t say that.”

“Dear me, Mr. Hood—that memory of yours! I am afraid I must quote your
own words to you again. After telling us that Mrs. Maquisten’s
excitement increased whilst she was talking about being deceived, you
said, ‘Afterwards, when I was taking her instructions, she was more
under control.’ If words have any meaning at all, those words imply a
previous lack of control. I suppose you will agree to that? Yes or no,
please.”

Looking very unhappy, Mr. Hood said, “Yes.”

“Well then, perhaps you will now answer my previous question. Do you
agree that those remarks about being deceived, about Ellen Bridling’s
warning, about the rocket and the stick, the question to yourself as to
how you would like to be a rocket, were all made, and the question put,
during the time when Mrs. Maquisten was in a state of uncontrolled
excitement and anger?”

Mr. Hood, looking still more unhappy, swallowed and said,

“Yes.”

Hugo Vane gave him a buoyant smile.

“There! Now we’ve got that cleared up—Mrs. Maquisten was in a state of
uncontrollable excitement when she made those remarks. One would almost
have guessed as much, because they are really very disjointed, are they
not? That asking you how you would like to be a rocket, for instance. It
is all much easier to understand now that you have told us of the state
Mrs. Maquisten was in—isn’t it, Mr. Hood?”

“Yes.”

“In a state of excitement such as you have described, remarks are apt to
be disconnected?”

“Yes.”

“Mrs. Maquisten’s remarks on this occasion were disconnected?”

“Some of them.”

“I put it to you, Mr. Hood, that these remarks about being deceived,
about having been warned, about rockets and strangers, did not come out
all in one piece.”

“No.”

“They came out in bits and pieces, spoken under great excitement? Yes or
no, Mr. Hood.”

Mr. Hood swallowed again and said, “Yes.”

“Now, Mr. Hood, I want you to understand that I am not impugning your
good faith in any way—I wouldn’t do that for the world—but when Mrs.
Maquisten in her state of excitement made this disjointed remark about
someone having been a stranger for a week, you assumed that she was
referring to Miss Silence, did you not?”

“Yes, I did.”

“But then you have rather a literal mind, haven’t you? The language of
metaphor does not really appeal to you, does it? I suppose you know what
a metaphor is?”

“Yes, of course.”

“Will you tell us what you understand by that term.”

Mr. Hood’s brow became furrowed. A light perspiration broke upon it.

“Everyone knows what it means. I don’t know that I can put it into
words.”

“Perhaps I can help you. The dictionary defines it as ‘the application
of a name or descriptive term to an object to which it is not literally
applicable.’ Thus, in her use of the word stranger, is it not perfectly
possible that Mrs. Maquisten may have intended not the literal meaning
of a person previously unknown to her, but the very common metaphorical
meaning of a person from whom she was estranged? That is quite possible,
is it not?”

“Yes—it’s possible.” Mr. Hood’s voice dwelt gloomily on the last word.

“In this sense, the words ‘a stranger for a week’ could easily signify
an estrangement during that period from any of the legatees?”

“I suppose so.”

“Mrs. Maquisten was already employing the language of metaphor when she
spoke of going up with the rocket and coming down with the stick, was
she not?”

“Oh, yes.” Mr. Hood’s tone was one of relief.

“And when she asked you how you would like to be a rocket—you did not
understand her to be speaking literally then?”

“Of course not.”

Hugo Vane repeated the words with cheerful zest.

“Of course not! She was using the language of metaphor. Let us take
another of these disjointed sentences—‘An heiress for a week, and then
a stranger again’. Are you quite sure that the word was heiress, not
heir?”

“Yes, I am quite sure.”

“The will executed a week before November 16th contained the names of
three female beneficiaries, each of whom might properly be described as
an heiress, might she not?”

“I suppose so.”

“Each one of the three could, then, have been alluded to by Mrs.
Maquisten as ‘an heiress for a week’?”

“I don’t know.”

“Come, come, Mr. Hood—you are not doing yourself justice. I will try to
put my question more simply. If the will executed a week before
constituted each of these ladies an heiress, then any one of the three
might have been described by Mrs. Maquisten as an heiress for a week.
That is so, is it not?”

“Yes.”

“And to conclude our clearing up. The final remark, ‘and then a stranger
again’, could certainly apply to a more permanent estrangement than the
one already alluded to as having lasted for a week?”

“I didn’t think of it that way.”

“Oh, no—you had already made up your mind that Miss Silence was
referred to, had you not?”

“Yes, I had.”

“You had made up your mind that it was Miss Silence who was to be cut
out of the will. So that until this moment it hadn’t occurred to you
that Mrs. Maquisten’s words might have quite a different meaning, had
it?”

“No.”

“It is curious how a preconceived idea will prevent one from seeing
anything else. Perhaps it would be helpful to discover how you came by
this idea. Did it, for instance, occur to you when Miss Silence was
ringing you up?”

“It may have passed through my mind.”

“Ah—it may have passed through your mind. Not quite an accurate
description, I fear, because, unfortunately, it appears to have remained
there. Did it not occur to you at the time, and has it not occurred to
you since, that Mrs. Maquisten would not have employed Miss Silence to
ring up her solicitor and empowered her to transmit a number of highly
confidential messages if they had not been on good terms?”

“No.”

“Well, Mr. Hood, I think I needn’t keep you much longer. I have just one
more question, and there is nothing at all difficult about it.” He bent
an encouraging smile upon the witness-box. “During the whole of the
interview that you had with her on the afternoon of Monday, November
16th, did Mrs. Maquisten at any time mention the name of Miss Carey
Silence?”

Mr. Hood cleared his throat for the last time and said,

“No.”




                                 XXVII


The court adjourned for lunch. When it reassembled Nora Hull was called.
Carey watched her come up into the witness-box, and thought how pretty
she looked, and more like a kitten than ever in a grey fur coat and a
little fur cap on her red-brown hair, her eyes very round and bright.
She took the oath, and as she lifted her head she looked across the
court, met Carey’s eyes, and smiled at her. It was a very warm,
spontaneous, and heartening thing.

Mr. Lanthony, junior for the Crown, took her through the scene on the
afternoon of November the 9th, a week before Honoria Maquisten’s death,
when she announced to the assembled family that she had added the name
of Carey Silence to the beneficiaries under her will. Nora came through
it trippingly, giving her answers in a pretty, clear voice with every
word plainly audible.

“Will you tell us who was present, Mrs. Hull.”

“Mr. Aylwin, my cousins Robert Maquisten, Dennis Harland, Honor King,
Carey Silence, myself. And Magda Brayle.”

“Mrs. Maquisten presented Miss Silence to you and your cousins as a
co-beneficiary?”

“Yes.”

“Was that all she said on this occasion?”

“Oh, no—she asked each of us separately whether we had any objection,
or doubt about her being of a sound mind, because if we had, she would
rather we said it straight out in front of Mr. Aylwin.”

“And had anyone anything to say?”

Nora’s smile flashed out.

“We certainly had not.”

“Did the announcement surprise you?”

“Oh dear, no. We all knew that my aunt was very fond of Carey.”

“On such a short acquaintance? It was only a week, wasn’t it?”

Nora lifted her very pretty chin and said with emphasis,

“She was very fond of her.”

“Now, Mrs. Hull, to come down to the events of November 16th. What time
did you get home that afternoon?”

“I got in at half past four.”

“Will you tell us what happened.”

“Molly told me that my aunt wanted to see me as soon as I came in. I
said I’d rushed in for a cup of tea and would have to go out again—and
she said she had just taken tea up and there was a second cup on the
tray, so I went up to my aunt’s room.”

“How did you find her?”

“Very angry.”

“With whom?”

The smile came out again.

“Oh, with all of us—for not being there when we were wanted. She wanted
someone to rage at, and there wasn’t anybody there.”

“Did she speak of no other cause for her anger?”

“Oh, yes. She said someone had been deceiving her, but I really didn’t
take a lot of notice.”

“Did she tell you she was going to alter her will?”

“Oh, yes. But she was always doing that—we really didn’t take any
notice of it.”

“When you say _we_, do you mean yourself and the cousins who were
accustomed to Mrs. Maquisten’s ways?”

“I mean all of us—Carey as well. We all knew that Aunt Honoria always
altered her will if anything put her out.”

“You mean that Miss Silence knew of this idiosyncrasy because she had
been told about it. She could not know about it by experience—could
she?”

The clear, pretty voice was very clear indeed as Nora said,

“She knew about it.”

“By hearsay only?”

“It was a regular family joke.”

For the first time the voice faltered, because the joke had turned to
tragedy and brought them here. Whatever happened, nothing would ever be
the same again.

“How long were you with Mrs. Maquisten?”

“About twenty minutes.”

“Did you have tea with her?”

“Oh, yes. I got her soothed down a bit, and I had a cup and she had a
cup, and then I had to rush.”

“Did she say anything more about being deceived?”

“No. I’d got her fairly soothed, and I think she wanted her tea.”

She was taken through her movements from 8 o’clock, when she re-entered
the house.

“You dined with your cousins?”

“Yes, with Dennis, Honor, and Carey.”

“Was Mrs. Maquisten’s intention to alter her will discussed among you?”

“Of course it was.”

“Were you asked whether Mrs. Maquisten had told you who had deceived
her?”

“Oh, yes. We all said she hadn’t.”

“The question was generally discussed?”

“Oh, yes. She hadn’t told any of us.”

“No one admitted to having been told—that is what you mean, isn’t it?”

“I mean she hadn’t told anyone.”

“Mrs. Hull, if you think, you will see that you can only answer for
yourself. So far as the others are concerned, all you can say is that no
one admitted to knowing who it was that was to be cut out of Mrs.
Maquisten’s will. That is so, is it not?”

“Yes.”

“No one did admit to this knowledge?”

“No.”

“After dinner did you all go to Mrs. Maquisten’s room for coffee?”

“Yes.”

“Will you describe the order in which you went.”

“My cousin Honor King and I went up first because we were going to
change. Carey came up after us. Honor and I were talking until she went
down. Our rooms are next door to each other. She was ready first. By the
time I got down the other three were there.”

A giddy feeling came over Carey. Her mind swung back. The scene opened
before her, small and bright like a picture seen in a camera—Cousin
Honoria’s room—the coffee-table set—Ellen grumbling and talking about
hop pillows—and Carey Silence in a blue dress getting up and going
through to the bathroom to get a sleeping-draught. Step by step, as
Nora’s voice went on, she saw it all happen again. She was coming back
from the bathroom with the glass in her hand, and it was more than half
full. She saw herself take it over to Honor at the coffee-table. She saw
the milk, the coffee, the two lumps of sugar go in, leaving about a
third of an inch of space at the top of the glass. She saw herself go
back to Cousin Honoria and fetch the brandy flask from beside the bed.
The mingled smell of coffee and cognac came up to her again on the
heated air of the room. She saw Honoria Maquisten put the glass to her
lips and drink. She heard her say, “And now I’ll have a decent cup of
coffee.”

All their faces very bright, clear, and alive. Cousin Honoria
alive—enjoying her coffee, enjoying keeping them guessing. The fire
burning with a clear, hot flame. The smell of the brandy coming up on
the heated air.

It was very hot. There was a dampness breaking out on her palms, on her
temples. The air in the court thickened and swirled about her, it filled
with little bright sparks. Nora’s voice receded. She thought, “If I
faint, it will be as bad as a confession. If I faint now, they’re bound
to think I did it. I mustn’t—I mustn’t, mustn’t, _mustn’t_.” She drove
her nails hard into her sweating palms. She fought the faintness back
with all the strength she had. Gradually the air cleared, the mist was
gone, the voices had come back out of the distance again.

Hugo Vane was cross-examining Nora.

“Will you take your mind back to the afternoon of November 9th—the
occasion when Mrs. Maquisten announced her intention to benefit Miss
Silence. You said the announcement did not surprise you.”

“No, it didn’t.”

“Because of Mrs. Maquisten’s affection for Miss Silence?”

Nora repeated what she had said before.

“She was very fond of her.”

“And as far as your observation went, this affection was mutual?”

“I am sure it was.”

“Will you tell us how Miss Silence took the announcement that she was to
benefit under Mrs. Maquisten’s will. Did she appear pleased—excited?”

“No, she didn’t. She got very red, and she looked dreadfully embarrassed
and unhappy.”

“Did she say anything?”

“She said, ‘_Please_, Cousin Honoria——’”

“In fact, you would agree that she behaved in a modest and sensitive
manner?”

“Oh, yes.”

“Thank you, Mrs. Hull.”

With a final smile for Carey, Nora stepped down.

Her place was taken by Honor King, looking like a scared albino rabbit
in her unbecoming black, with a skirt dipping behind, a fur sliding off
her shoulders, and her hair in wisps under a dowdy black felt hat. She
took the oath in a voice which may have been audible to the clerk, but
which certainly carried no farther. No one had supposed that she would
make a good witness, but as her examination proceeded and she had to be
asked repeatedly to speak up, Mr. Lanthony’s florid complexion was seen
to deepen.

“Will you tell us, Miss King, at what time you came home on the
afternoon of Monday, November 16th.”

Miss King’s pale lips were seen to open, but no sound emerged.

“A little louder, if you please. I am afraid the jury cannot hear you.
What time did you come home? At 5.15—is that right? Did you go up and
see Mrs. Maquisten when you came in?”

Honor was presumed to have said “Yes.”

“And how long were you with her? . . . Kindly raise your voice a little.
Did you say ten minutes?”

The judge leaned forward.

“Really, Mr. Lanthony, this witness is very inaudible. The jury must be
able to hear her own words, not merely your repetition of them.”

It was at this point that Mr. Lanthony’s colour began to deepen. He
said, “Yes, m’lud,” in a respectful voice and turned a compelling eye
upon the witness-box.

“Now, Miss King, there is really no need for you to be nervous. Please
do your best to be audible, and tell us how you found your aunt.”

The words angry and excited had been heard so often in this connection
that they were discernible in the witness’s murmured reply.

“A little louder, Miss King. Will you tell us what Mrs. Maquisten said.”

Honor’s voice came out suddenly, high and shrill.

“She said that she had been deceived.”

“Did she say who had deceived her?”

“No.”

“Was she angry with you personally?”

“No—she was just angry.”

“Yes—keep the voice up, Miss King. How long did you stay with her?”

Honor clutched at her slipping fur.

“I don’t know—a few minutes—I came away as soon as I could.”

“Why was that?”

“I thought she ought to rest.”

“What did you do after that?”

“I went up to my own room.”

“How long were you there?”

“Until eight o’clock.”

“Were you alone?”

“Ellen Bridling came up at half past seven to try on a dress she was
altering for me. It was one my aunt had given me. I wanted to put it
on.” The fur slipped again, was clutched again.

“Did you put the dress on?”

“Not then—it wasn’t ready. I came up after dinner with my cousin and
put it on then.”

“With Mrs. Hull? Did you go down with her?”

“No—she wasn’t ready. I went down first.”

“And did you meet anyone?”

“Ellen Bridling was on the landing. She walked with me to the door of my
aunt’s room.”

A witness may have been coached, but evidence too obviously rehearsed is
not to a jury’s taste. Mr. Lanthony began to wish that his witness had
remained inaudible. With her voice at a strained, unnatural pitch, she
sounded for all the world like a child reciting a lesson, and a
halfwitted child at that. Privately, he was of the opinion that Miss
Honor King should have been drowned at birth.

“When you entered Mrs. Maquisten’s room, whom did you find there?”

“My aunt and Carey Silence.”

“They were alone together?”

“Yes.”

“Come back to the moment when you left your room. Do the stairs go
straight down to the landing where you saw Ellen Bridling?”

“No, there is a turn.”

“Did you see Ellen Bridling before you reached the turn?”

“Yes, I looked over the banisters and saw her.”

“She was on the landing whilst you were coming down the stairs?”

“Yes.”

“So that Miss Silence was alone with Mrs. Maquisten during the time that
it took Ellen Bridling to walk along the corridor, wait on the landing
whilst you came downstairs, and walk back with you to the door of Mrs.
Maquisten’s room?”

The judge leaned forward again.

“Have we had any evidence that Ellen Bridling had been in Mrs.
Maquisten’s room?”

“M’lud, the matter is not in dispute. Ellen Bridling will be called.”

“Is that agreeable to the defence, Mr. Vane?”

“Yes, m’lud.”

The judge leaned back again, his eyes very bright and black.

Mr. Lanthony continued.

“Will you describe what happened in Mrs. Maquisten’s room.”

Carey was forewarned. She took hold of herself and wouldn’t look back.
It wasn’t so hard this time. Honor’s voice, mechanical and without
inflection, deprived her words of their power to call up the past. The
words were just words.

When she had testified that the glass containing the sleeping-draught
was more than half full at the time that Carey brought it in, that she
had herself under the eyes of her three cousins added two lumps of
sugar, some coffee, and a little milk, and had afterwards seen Mrs.
Maquisten put in a dash of brandy and drain the glass, Mr. Lanthony had
finished with her.

He sat down thankfully, and Hugo Vane got up.

“Just a moment, Miss King—I won’t keep you. When you went into Mrs.
Maquisten’s room after dinner and found Miss Silence there, just what
were their relative positions? Where, for instance, was Mrs. Maquisten?”

Honor caught at her fur.

“She was in her chair.”

This was a lesson she hadn’t learned. Her voice wavered.

“And where was this chair of hers?”

“By the fire.”

“Was she facing the door as you came in?”

“Yes.”

“And where was Miss Silence?”

“Standing beside her.”

“Close beside her?”

“Yes.”

“Was she touching her?”

“Yes.”

“Will you describe what Mrs. Maquisten was doing.”

Honor’s voice sank to a murmur. Only the word “hand” emerged.

“Please try to keep your voice up, Miss King. I am afraid I must ask you
to repeat that. What was Mrs. Maquisten doing?”

“She was holding Carey’s hand.”

There was a sound in the court, as if everyone there had moved a little.
No one of these movements would have been audible by itself, but all
together they made up a vague composite sound. Jeff Stewart took hold of
the edge of the bench on which he was sitting and gripped it so hard
that the mark was still across his palm half an hour later. Mr. Mordaunt
looked at him and nodded, and the iron band about his heart gave way, to
let him draw his breath.

From the dock Carey looked across to Honor King. There was colour in her
cheeks—quick, bright colour. Her pulses drummed, because neither she,
nor Mr. Mordaunt, nor anyone else had been sure what Honor would
say—they hadn’t been sure. But the words had been spoken now, and
nobody could take them back—“She was holding Carey’s hand.” She looked
across at Honor and thanked her with her eyes. But Honor’s eyes were
down, her face pale and reluctant, her figure sagging, the fur sliding
from her shoulders.

Hugo Vane went on cheerfully.

“Was Mrs. Maquisten speaking?”

“Yes.”

“Could you hear what she said?”

“No.”

“Was she looking at Miss Silence?”

“Yes.”

“In what way—with what expression?”

The fur slipped again. Honor clutched at it.

“Come, Miss King—I want an answer. Mrs. Maquisten was looking at Miss
Silence, and I want to know how she was looking at her. Perhaps I can
help you. Was the look an affectionate one?”

The pale lips moved. A faint sound came from them.

Hugo Vane beamed.

“Just a little louder, Miss King. I should like the jury to hear that
‘Yes’. Mrs. Maquisten was looking affectionately at Miss Silence when
you came in, and holding her hand?”

“Yes.”

“Thank you, Miss King.”




                                 XXVIII


Dennis Harland limped up into the witness-box. He leaned on a stick, but
no longer used a crutch. Carey, watching him, thought he looked
stronger. She wondered if he would look at her, but he kept his eyes
away.

He was taken by Mr. Lanthony through his interview with Honoria
Maquisten on the afternoon of November 16th. He had returned to the
house at six and spent half an hour with his aunt. She was angry when he
came in, but not with him. She did not say with whom she was angry. She
told him she had had a letter which upset her very much. She did not
tell him who the letter was from.

“What did she tell you about the contents of this letter, Mr. Harland?”

“She said, ‘I’ve had a letter that has upset me very much. You’ll know
more about it to-morrow. But if anyone thinks they can deceive me, and
blind me, and act a part and get away with it, they are very much
mistaken, and so I mean to show them.’”

“Did you understand Mrs. Maquisten to use the words ‘they’ and ‘them’ in
a plural sense?”

“No. She began the sentence with ‘anyone’. I think she said ‘they’ and
‘them’ to avoid saying ‘he’ or ‘she’. At least that’s how I took it. She
just wasn’t giving anything away.”

“What else did she say, Mr. Harland?”

“Well, it was all on those lines. She said she was going to alter her
will—she always did if she was annoyed with any of us—and that Hood
had gone away with the draft. She said she would sign it next day. She
was very worked up, and I was afraid she would make herself ill, so I
did my best to soothe her. Then Miss Brayle came in and said of course
she wouldn’t be taking her evening off as my aunt was so upset, and
there was a flare-up about that.”

“Mrs. Maquisten wished the nurse to go?”

“She insisted. In fact she went so far as to say that if she didn’t do
as she was told she could clear out altogether.”

“Was anything said about the sleeping-draught?”

“Yes—Miss Brayle said my aunt should have one. She gave this as a
reason for staying in. My aunt was by this time so angry that I
suggested that the sleeping-draught should be left ready, and that Ellen
Bridling should bring it in and give it to her when she put her to bed.”

“Was this agreed upon?”

“Yes. It had been done before.”

“What happened after that?”

“I went down to the study.”

“Was anyone there?”

“Miss Silence was there.”

His voice was as cold as a March wind. She wasn’t “Carey Silence” or “my
cousin”. She supposed she might be thankful that he hadn’t called her
“the accused”. He hadn’t looked at her once.

Mr. Lanthony was asking,

“Did you repeat to Miss Silence what had just taken place in Mrs.
Maquisten’s room?”

“Yes.”

“All of it?”

“Yes.”

“Did you tell her that Mrs. Maquisten was to have a sleeping-draught?”

“Yes.”

“Did you describe the method by which that sleeping-draught was
prepared?”

There was a pause.

Dennis Harland said, “Yes.”

“Will you describe the method now.”

“My aunt couldn’t swallow a tablet. When she took one she had it
dissolved and mixed with coffee.”

“Did you describe this method to Miss Silence?”

“Yes.”

“Did you tell her that the draught with this dissolved tablet was to be
left for Ellen Bridling to administer?”

“Yes.”

“Did you inform Miss Silence that Mrs. Maquisten had not told you who
was to be cut out of her will?”

“Yes. She said she hadn’t told her either.”

“How long were you and Miss Silence together?”

“Until half past seven, when we went up to dress for dinner.”

“What time was dinner?”

“It was late because we waited for my cousin Nora Hull. We sat down as
soon as she came in, a little after eight.”

“‘We’ being yourself, Miss Silence, Miss King, and Mrs. Hull?”

“Yes.”

Mr. Lanthony took him through the conversation at the dinner table.

“So when you rose from the table Miss Silence had been given to
understand that Mrs. Maquisten had not named the person with whom she
was angry?”

“Yes.”

He was asked about the order in which they went upstairs, and repeated
what Nora had said.

“Who were in Mrs. Maquisten’s room when you got there?”

“Miss Silence and Honor King.”

“Will you describe what happened after that.”

“My cousin Nora Hull joined us. Molly brought in the coffee and went
away. I asked my aunt if she was going to scold us, and she said,
‘No—not to-night’. Nora Hull asked her if she would have coffee. She
said, ‘I’m to take some wretched sleeping-draught, I believe, but
there’s no reason why I shouldn’t have a decent cup of coffee as well.’
Honor King asked if it wouldn’t keep her awake, and she said that was
her affair. She said she would take the sleeping-draught first—Magda
had left it all ready. She told us to ring for Ellen. But when Ellen
Bridling came she was in one of her cranky moods—she’s a privileged old
servant—and she tried to persuade my aunt not to take the draught. She
wanted her to have a hop pillow instead. In the end she refused
point-blank to get the stuff, and suggested that Nora or Miss Silence
should do so.”

“Did she refuse abruptly?”

“Very abruptly. She said, ‘I’m not giving you any sleeping-draughts
neither tonight nor any other night. What’s the nurse for, if it isn’t
to give sleeping-draughts and suchlike? It isn’t what I was engaged
for!’ Then she went out of the room, and my aunt told Miss Silence to
get the sleeping-draught from the bathroom shelf.”

Carey sat there with her hands in her lap and tried not to listen, but
every time he said “Miss Silence” it was like an open accusation. Nora
Hull, Honor King—even Magda Brayle had her Christian name from him, but
for Carey for whom his voice had been so warm and friendly, for Carey
whom he had kissed, there was only that estranged “Miss Silence”. She
tried not to listen, not to be made to go through that scene again. But
she couldn’t escape. She couldn’t close her ears to Dennis’s voice, not
warm and friendly now, but cold and strange. Once again she saw herself
come in with the medicine-glass in her hand. She saw Honor add the milk,
the sugar, the coffee. She saw Honoria Maquisten put in the brandy, tip
up the glass, and drink.

Dennis’s voice which was the voice of a stranger went on.

“When my aunt had drunk the sleeping-draught she gave the glass to Miss
Silence and told her to put it back on the shelf. Then she drank the cup
of coffee which had been poured out for her and told us all to keep
quiet, because there was something she wanted to say.”

“Had Miss Silence come back?”

“Yes. My aunt told her to sit where she could see her.”

“Will you tell us what Mrs. Maquisten had to say.”

“She said we were all to be there next day at a quarter to two. She said
she had told my cousin Robert Maquisten to come. She said Mr. Hood would
be bringing the draft of her new will, and that she would have something
to say to us all before she signed it. She said, ‘I have made a great
many wills, but this one is final. I shall fill in the names and certain
details tomorrow, and sign the draft.’ She added that she didn’t intend
to wait for Mr. Aylwin’s return, as he might be delayed, and neither he
nor anyone else would turn her from what was her decided purpose. Then
she told us all to go, and to send Ellen to her. She said she was tired
and wanted to go to bed.”

“Did you see Mrs. Maquisten again?”

Dennis said, “Not whilst she was alive.”

There came back to Carey the echo of his voice as he had turned at the
bedroom door that night—“Sleep well, darling.” It hurt her quite
unbearably. She knew suddenly that the same memory was hurting him.

Junior counsel for the defence, the tall, thin young man whose face she
liked but whose name she couldn’t remember, was on his feet now. Mr.
Lanthony had sat down, looking as rubicund as if he breakfasted on beef
and beer and had never heard of Lord Woolton.

“Mr. Harland—you were in Mrs. Maquisten’s room for about twenty minutes
on the occasion you have just described?”

“Rather less than that.”

“During that time Miss Silence was also there, except when she went to
fetch the sleeping-draught and to take away the glass at Mrs.
Maquisten’s request?”

“Yes.”

“How long was she absent when she went to get the draught?”

“She went into the bathroom and came straight back again.”

“There was no delay?”

“None at all.”

“Would there have been time for her to have dissolved a tablet, and to
have added it to the draught in the medicine-glass?”

There was a pause. Dennis Harland said,

“Not then.”

“There was not the slightest delay?”

“No.”

“Now, Mr. Harland—during the time when you were all together in Mrs.
Maquisten’s room, did you hear her address Miss Silence?”

“Yes, she told her to get the sleeping-draught—she told her to take the
glass away. She said, ‘You needn’t wash it—that’s Magda’s business.’
And when Miss Silence came back she said, ‘Sit where I can see you,
Carey.’”

“Mrs. Maquisten made these three requests?”

The corner of Dennis’s mouth twitched.

“They were a good deal more like orders.”

“Was that her usual manner of making requests?”

“Well—yes.”

“Her voice and manner when she addressed Miss Silence were her usual
voice and manner?”

“Yes.”

“And when she said, ‘Sit where I can see you, Carey’—how did she say
that? Was that an order too?”

“Oh, yes—she was giving us all our orders then.”

“And what orders did she give the rest of you?”

The lip twitched again.

“She told me to hold my tongue—Nora Hull to sit down—and Honor King to
stop fidgeting.”

“Were all these orders given in the same voice—in the same manner?”

“Not quite.”

“Where did the difference occur?”

“In what she said to Miss Silence.”

“Will you tell us what this difference was.”

“She was not quite so peremptory. She never was with Miss Silence.”

“Her manner to Miss Silence was habitually softer?”

“Yes.”

“More affectionate?”

“It was affectionate.”

“And on this particular occasion, while telling Miss Silence to sit
where she could see her, Mrs. Maquisten’s voice and manner were still
tinged with this softness and affection?”

Dennis said, “She was very fond of her.”

“You haven’t answered my question, Mr. Harland. Was there a tinge of
softness and affection when she addressed Miss Silence on this
occasion?”

“I think there was.”

The words were hard and strained. They accused Carey Silence. For the
first time Dennis Harland looked towards the dock, towards Carey. His
eyes accused her. They said what he had said on the other side of the
gulf which this had set between them—“Why did you do it?”

Carey looked back at him steadily, gravely. She wouldn’t look away. She
heard counsel say, “Thank you, Mr. Harland.” She saw Dennis pick up his
stick and limp down out of the box.

The second day of the trial was over.




                                  XXIX


“Not too bad,” said Mr. Mordaunt cheerfully—“not too bad at all. Telfer
did very well with Miss King. Lanthony was as sick as mud. The
hand-holding episode got home on the jury all right—all the more
because it came out so unwillingly. Odd kind of young woman that—very
unattractive. No love lost between her and Miss Silence, I should say,
so that bit of evidence is all the more convincing. I don’t mind saying
that I was uncommon pleased to hear it, because when a witness dislikes
someone it’s quite astonishing what he can contrive to forget. In this
case _she_. And there’s no doubt that Miss King don’t like Miss
Silence.”

Jeff Stewart agreed.

“I don’t think she likes anyone very much. I don’t think she’s ever had
very much to like. I don’t think anyone’s ever liked her above a bit.
And Mrs. Maquisten snubbed her pretty well to death.”

“Looks like that,” said Mr. Mordaunt with undiminished cheerfulness.
“Well, we’re one up on her, and a good thing too, for we’re going to
need everything we can get. Dennis Harland’s not so good, you know. He’s
taken a bit of the shine off Miss King’s admission.”

That tight band was closing about Jeff’s ribs again. It made his breath
come short as he said,

“How?”

“Well, he admits that Mrs. Maquisten was treating Miss Silence
affectionately, and then makes it perfectly clear to the jury that in
his opinion his aunt was lavishing this affection upon her murderess,
and I’m afraid _that_ got home too. You know, he thinks Miss Silence did
it—he’s got it sticking out all over him. He hates her, and he’s got
his knife into her. Pity Telfer asked him whether Miss Silence was long
enough in the bathroom to have tampered with the sleeping-draught. That
‘Not then’ was very damaging. They’re out to suggest that it was done
before that—when she was alone with Mrs. Maquisten, after Ellen
Bridling left the room and before Miss King got down. That’s the
dangerous time for Miss Silence, and for rebuttal we shall have merely
her own evidence. You see, nothing would have been easier than for her
to make an excuse and slip into that bathroom.”

Jeff’s face showed nothing.

“I’d have thought the time would be on the short side. Ellen went out of
the room and along the passage to the landing, heard Honor King call out
to Nora Hull that she was going down, waited for her, and walked back
with her. It wouldn’t take very long, you know, and Carey would have had
to make her excuse to go into the bathroom, dissolve those five or six
tablets, get back, and arrive at the point of having her hand held and
being gazed at affectionately by the time Honor opened the door.” His
drawl became very pronounced as he added, “I’d not find that so easy to
believe if I were on the jury.”

Mr. Mordaunt beamed with robust good humour.

“Trust Vane to make the most of that. He’s in good form. Right on top of
it with Hood. He’d something to break down there, hadn’t he? Tough bit
of evidence to come up against. And it isn’t as if Hood had any possible
motive. He’s not mentioned in the will—not even a trifling legacy. Bad
bit of evidence, but Vane knocked it about a bit. On the whole, as I
said, not a bad day.”




                                  XXX


Ellen Bridling came into the witness-box on the morning of the third day
and took the oath. She was neat and dowdy in a long black coat with a
grey fur collar, and the hat which had been her best when Mr.
Chamberlain flew to Munich. It was made of black velvet in a
depressed-looking shape, and it had two ostrich-feather tips on the
left-hand side. There had originally been a small bunch of violets too,
but she had banished them in order to mourn for Honoria Maquisten.

Before taking the oath she removed her fabric gloves and put them away
in a shiny black handbag. All her movements were slow, deliberate, and
controlled. When she had sworn to speak the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth, she folded her gnarled, work-worn hands upon the
edge of the box and waited, her head poked forward, her eyes very small
and sunk under the hooded lids.

Carey began to feel cold. She knew now that Ellen had always frightened
her, and she knew why. It was because this moment lay ahead of them.

Sir Wilbury Fossett rose majestic.

“Your name is Ellen Bridling? You were the late Mrs. Maquisten’s
personal maid?”

“Yes, sir.”

“How long had you been with her?”

“Thirty-six years this month.”

“That is a long time. Will you tell us what terms you were on with Mrs.
Maquisten.”

There was no need to tell this witness to speak up. The grating voice
was not loud, but it was very distinct. There was no nervous hurry, no
faltering of the tone. Every word, every syllable, was most deliberately
given.

“I’d been with her a long time.”

“Were you in her confidence?”

“There were things she’d tell me, and things she’d keep to herself.”

“Did she tell you of her intention to leave some of her jewellery to
Miss Silence?”

“Yes, she did.”

“What jewellery was it?”

“It was the rubies that belonged to Mr. Maquisten’s mother.”

“Did an incident in connection with these rubies take place on the
afternoon of November 15th, the day before Mrs. Maquisten’s death?”

“Yes.”

“Will you tell us about it, please.”

Ellen’s hands took hold of the edge on which they were resting.

“My bell rung, and when I went in, there was Miss Silence. Mrs.
Maquisten said as how she was going to show her the rubies. She told me
to open the safe, and I spoke up. ‘Seeing it’s never been opened with
none of the young ones there, it’s Mr. Robert you should trust,’ I said,
‘or Mr. Dennis—not those that haven’t been in the house no more than a
fortnight.’ And she looks at me, and I said, ‘All right—I know my
place, but there’s some that don’t and never will.’”

“And what happened after that?”

“I opened the safe.”

“You were in the habit of opening it for Mrs. Maquisten?”

“Whenever she said.”

“Did anyone else open the safe for her?”

“Not that I ever heard tell.”

“Mrs. Maquisten gave you her complete trust and confidence in this
matter?”

“I’d been with her thirty-five years.”

“Will you proceed, Mrs. Bridling, and tell us what happened after you
opened the safe.”

“I took out the cases and give them to Mrs. Maquisten in her bed. There
was the two bracelets, and the big ornament for the front of the dress,
and the rings, and the big necklace that made into a tiara, and the
small necklace with the ruby drops. She had them all out on the
coverlet, and Miss Silence put on the bracelets and the small necklace
and went and looked at herself in the glass. Mrs. Maquisten said, ‘I’m
leaving them to you, Carey,’ and I couldn’t hold myself. I said, ‘Mrs.
Maquisten’s they were’—meaning her mother-in-law—‘and it’s to Mr.
Robert or to Miss Honor they should go. They come from Maquistens, and
you didn’t ought to leave them away.’ And Mrs. Maquisten, she tells me
to hold my tongue, and I went round to the safe and started to put the
things away.”

“Now, Mrs. Bridling, I’d like you to tell us what happened on the
following evening, the evening of November 16th. Where were you at seven
o’clock?”

“In my room.”

“Will you describe the position of your room.”

“Opposite Mrs. Maquisten’s.”

“There was a bell beside her bed which rang in your room?”

“Yes.”

“Did you know that the nurse was going out?”

“Yes. She looked in at seven with her hat on and said as how she was
off, and to give Mrs. Maquisten her sleeping-draught and get her to bed
by nine o’clock. ‘And keep her as quiet as you can,’ she says—as if she
needed to tell me that after thirty-five years! As soon as she was out
of the way I up and went in, and there was my poor dear crying and
saying how cruel she’d been deceived.”

“Was she in bed?”

“Yes—I got her up later whilst they were at dinner. She was in bed and
she’d been crying, and she said to me, ‘Well, Ellen, you were right and
I suppose I shall never hear the last of it,’ she says, and, ‘Thank God,
I had a friend that told me before it was too late.’ She had a letter in
her hand, but she didn’t tell me who it was from, only thank God she’d
got a friend that wasn’t afraid to tell her the truth.”

“Whom did you understand her to mean?”

“The friend that wrote her the letter. She had it in her hand, but she
never told me who wrote it, and I didn’t ask her no questions—I wanted
to get her quiet. She pushed the letter under her pillow and took hold
of my hand and said I’d warned her but she wouldn’t listen. ‘Those that
go up quick can come down quick,’ she said, and, ‘I’ll not be deceived a
second time. I’ll make a new will, and then we’ll see who’ll laugh on
the wrong side of their mouth.’ And she held hold of me tight with both
her hands, with the tears running down her face, my poor dear, and she
said, ‘You warned me, and I did ought to have listened.’ And I said,
‘Don’t you fret, my dear, for she isn’t worth it. Put her away out of
your will and out of your mind, and we’ll all be the same as what we
were before.’”

“What did Mrs. Maquisten say to that?”

“She cried and held my hand. And I took and told her she’d make herself
ill, and I went through to the bathroom and got her some water to drink,
and a sponge and a towel.”

“Did you notice the medicine-glass with the sleeping-draught?”

“I couldn’t help but notice it. It was right in the middle of the shelf
over the taps.”

“Did you notice the amount of liquid in it?”

“Yes.”

“How full was the glass, Mrs. Bridling?”

“Not quite half full.”

“Are you sure of that?”

Ellen sniffed slightly.

“Quite sure.”

“How long were you with Mrs. Maquisten?”

“Not very long—I wanted to get her quiet. I washed her face and gave
her a drink, and I come away.”

“What did you do after that?”

“I stayed in my room sewing with the door open. I didn’t want no one to
go in and disturb Mrs. Maquisten. Come half past seven I looked in to
see if she was quiet and went on up to Miss Honor with a dress I was
shortening for her. I got it done about five minutes past eight, but
Miss Honor had gone on down.”

“What did you do after that?”

“I went back to Mrs. Maquisten and got her up for her dinner.”

“Did you see the letter again?”

“No, I didn’t.”

“Mrs. Bridling—could Mrs. Maquisten have destroyed that letter herself?
No one seems to have seen it again. Could she have got out of bed and
put it in the fire?”

“Oh, yes, she could get out of bed.”

“And walk?”

“Oh, yes.”

“You say you got Mrs. Maquisten up for dinner. Had you occasion to go
into the bathroom again then?”

“I was to and fro.”

“Did you notice the medicine-glass with the draught?”

“I saw it.”

“Did you notice the level of the liquid in the glass?”

“It was the same. It wasn’t half full—nothing like.”

“You are sure about that?”

“Of course I’m sure!”

“How long were you with Mrs. Maquisten at this time?”

“About three quarters of an hour. I was there until Miss Silence come.”

“Until Miss Silence came up after dinner?”

“Yes.”

“Now, Mrs. Bridling—during this three quarters of an hour, did you have
any more talk with Mrs. Maquisten as to why she was upset and who had
upset her?”

“No.”

“She did not refer to the matter?”

Ellen’s head moved slowly in accompaniment to her “No.”

“And you did not refer to it?”

“I wanted her to keep quiet, and there was her dinner coming up, and
Molly coming and going.”

“Did Mrs. Maquisten speak to Miss Silence when she came in?”

“No.”

“Or look at her?”

There was a fleeting spark in the sunken eyes. Then the lids came down
again.

“No—she was speaking to me.”

“Did you hear her speak to Miss Silence before you left the room?”

“No.”

“What did you do after leaving the room?”

“I walked along the passage as far as the landing, and I listened to
hear if Miss Nora or Miss Honor was coming. I heard Miss Honor call out
that she was going down, and I waited for her, and we went back along
the passage to the bedroom door.”

“How long did this take?”

“I didn’t hurry myself. I was in my room for a minute getting a
handkerchief, and I went along slow. Then I’d waited on the landing for
a bit before I heard Miss Honor call out, and I waited a bit longer for
her to come down, and we’d a word or two about her dress which I’d
altered. Five minutes I must have been gone, what with one thing and
another. Then Miss Honor went into Mrs. Maquisten’s room, and I was in
my own room across the passage.”

“Was your door open?”

“Yes.”

“Could you see anyone coming along the passage?”

Again there was that spark. The grating voice said,

“I took notice of who come along. Mr. Dennis come first—I could hear
his crutch, and I looked out. I could see him all the way from the
corner. Then Miss Nora come—Mrs. Hull, that is. She come flying down
the stairs the way she does. I could see her all the way along the
passage too. And then Molly come along with the coffee-tray, and I
stepped out and opened the door for her to go in. And she come out again
and went off down, and a little after that my bell rung.”

“Go on, Mrs. Bridling.”

There was a slight definite pause. Ellen’s poking head turned as if she
was listening, but not to any sound in that court. Her eyes were hooded.
It was as if she was listening for the voices which had died on the hot
air of Honoria Maquisten’s room on that November evening—as if her eyes
turned back to the scene enacted there. Her voice took a lower
tone—lower, but not less audible. She said,

“I went in, and they was all there, and my dear she asked me for her
sleeping-draught. She said, ‘Nurse put it ready. I’ll have it now whilst
the coffee’s hot.’ And I took and told her I didn’t hold with
sleeping-draughts and she’d do better with a nice hop pillow—my
grandmother made them lovely. But she only laughed at me, and we had
words, and I said giving sleeping-draughts and suchlike wasn’t what I’d
been engaged for, and if she wanted them, there were those whose work it
was, and if they was out of the way, there was Miss Nora and Miss Carey.
‘Let one of them fetch it for you,’ I said.”

“What did Mrs. Maquisten say to that?”

“Burst out laughing and told me to be off. And she told Miss Silence to
bring her the sleeping-draught.”

“Did you see Mrs. Maquisten again?”

“I come back when they’d gone and I put her to bed.”

“Did anything more pass between you as to what had been upsetting her?”

Ellen took her hands from the rail and opened her bag. Very deliberately
she took out a clean folded handkerchief and unfolded it. She shut the
bag and slipped the handle over her wrist again. Then she stood there
holding the handkerchief crushed up between her hands. They shook a
little, and the white linen shook too. She said,

“She didn’t say nothing till she was in bed. Then she took hold of my
hand, and she said, ‘We’ve been together a long time,’ and I said, ‘Yes,
my dear.’ And she says, ‘I’m very unhappy, but I’m not going to do any
different because of that. It’s the deceit I can’t overlook,’ she says.
And I said, ‘Nor you didn’t ought to, my dear. But don’t you think
nothing more about it to-night—there’s tomorrow to do your thinking in.
You take and go to sleep, and don’t you trouble yourself any more about
it to-night, my dear,’ I said.” The tears had begun to trickle out from
under those hooded lids. She stood there with them running down. The
voice that had been so harsh began to break. “And she said, ‘Kiss me
good night, Ellen,’ and I kissed her and come away.”




                                  XXXI


Hugo Vane rose to cross-examine. He was for once without his customary
air of buoyant good humour. He still looked like a schoolboy, but a
schoolboy whose spirits were subdued in the presence of grief.

“There are just a few questions I would like to ask you, Mrs. Bridling.
Let us begin with the Sunday afternoon—Sunday, November 15th, the day
before Mrs. Maquisten’s death, when you opened the safe and showed Miss
Silence the rubies.”

Quite slowly Ellen was wiping away the tears that had trickled down. Her
hand shook a little and her eyes were red. She kept the handkerchief in
her hand and turned her head towards Hugo Vane. He said,

“Mrs. Maquisten told Miss Silence in your presence that she intended to
leave her the rubies?”

“Yes.”

“What did Miss Silence say? I don’t think you told us that.”

Ellen primmed her lips.

“She said, ‘Oh, no!’ and Mrs. Maquisten said ‘Oh, yes, my dear’. And I
took and spoke my mind and said it was Mr. Robert Maquisten they ought
to be left to, or Miss Honor. And Miss Silence, she said, ‘_Please_,
Cousin Honoria——’ as if she didn’t know that was just the way to make
her all the more set in what she’d planned to do.”

“I see. How long had Miss Silence known Mrs. Maquisten? How long had she
been in the house?”

“No more than a fortnight.”

“You had been with Mrs. Maquisten for thirty-five years?”

Ellen put the handkerchief to her eyes again.

“Thirty-six this month, if she’d been spared.”

“You would naturally know a great deal more about her than Miss Silence
would?”

“I’d know what she liked.”

“And you would know that it made her more set in her ways if she was
opposed or contradicted?”

“Everyone knew that.”

“But Miss Silence had only been a fortnight in the house—she wouldn’t
know Mrs. Maquisten’s ways as well as you did?”

“It’s not for me to say what she knew.”

“You didn’t like Miss Silence very much, did you?”

The eyelids rose. Out of the red-rimmed eyes there looked for a moment
so sheer a gleam of hatred that it took even Hugo Vane aback. His way of
showing this was to resume his smile as Ellen said loudly and
distinctly,

“What call had I got to like her?”

“I am afraid it is you who have to answer the question, Mrs. Bridling,
and I am afraid I must ask you to be a little more particular. You
didn’t like Miss Silence, did you?”

“I hadn’t any call to like her.”

“Well then, perhaps you can tell us a little more about this dislike of
yours. When did it begin?”

“So soon as I saw what she was like.”

“Do you mean as soon as she came into the house?”

“It didn’t take me long.”

“Or do you mean as soon as you saw that Mrs. Maquisten was going to be
fond of her?”

“I didn’t say that.”

“You didn’t like Mrs. Maquisten being fond of her, did you?”

The lids rose again. He received a full malignant stare.

“And what call had I got to like it? Look what come of it, and tell me
that!”

The judge leaned forward.

“That is a very improper remark. You will confine yourself to answering
questions put to you by learned counsel.”

Ellen looked back at him, as who should say, ‘I know my place’. In a
respectful voice she said, ‘Yes, my lord’, and turned to face Hugo Vane.

“I should like an answer to my question, Mrs. Bridling. Did you not
begin to dislike Miss Silence as soon as you saw that Mrs. Maquisten was
going to be fond of her? Yes or no, please.”

“Yes.” The word came out with a certain defiant firmness.

“And the more fond of her Mrs. Maquisten became, the more you disliked
her?”

“I didn’t want Mrs. Maquisten to be imposed upon.”

“You mean, don’t you, that you didn’t want Mrs. Maquisten to be fond of
Miss Silence? Yes or no.”

“No, I didn’t.”

“I think you mentioned in your evidence that you had warned Mrs.
Maquisten against someone. Was it against Miss Silence?”

“Yes, it was, and if she’d taken my warning——”

“That will do, Mrs. Bridling. When did you begin to warn Mrs.
Maquisten?”

“Just so soon as I saw what Miss Silence was up to.”

“You mean just as soon as you saw that she was getting to be on
affectionate terms with Mrs. Maquisten, don’t you? I think that is what
you mean, but I would like to hear you say so. It was when you noticed
the affection between them that you began your warnings, wasn’t it? Or
was it even earlier than that?”

“It didn’t take me no time to see through her.”

“Mrs. Maquisten became very fond of Miss Silence in a very short time,
didn’t she?”

“Yes.”

“And you began your warnings just as soon as you noticed the first
beginnings of this fondness. Is that what you mean?”

“You can put it that way.”

“I’m afraid that won’t do for an answer. It is not a case of how I would
put it, or how you would put it. What I want is the truth. Did you, or
did you not begin to warn Mrs. Maquisten against Miss Silence as soon as
you saw that they were getting fond of one another?”

Ellen’s hands tightened on the handkerchief. Her head jerked. She said
with a sudden anger in her voice,

“Well then, I did! And she thanked me for it come the last!”

Hugo Vane beamed upon her.

“You lost no opportunity of trying to set Mrs. Maquisten against the
young cousin of whom she was becoming so fond?”

“I kept on warning her.”

“You really had it quite on your mind, didn’t you? I daresay you thought
about it a lot?”

“I couldn’t help but think about it.”

“Perhaps it even kept you awake at night?”

“Many’s the time.”

“In fact you thought about it constantly?”

“Yes, I did.”

His smile became a sympathetic one.

“It must have been very trying for you to find that Mrs. Maquisten took
no notice of your warnings—that in spite of them she had made a will
leaving a large sum of money to Miss Silence. I suppose you knew about
that?”

“It wasn’t no secret. Everyone in the house knew about it.”

“Very trying for you? And very trying for you to get out the rubies and
see Miss Silence put them on? And all the time Mrs. Maquisten getting
fonder and fonder of her cousin and not taking any notice of your
warnings? You must have had them constantly on your mind?”

“I did my best, but she wouldn’t listen.”

“And you went on thinking about how much you disliked Miss Silence, and
how much you hoped Mrs. Maquisten would stop being fond of her?”

“I hoped she’d find her out.”

“Exactly! So that when you went in to Mrs. Maquisten at seven o’clock on
the evening of November 16th and found her crying and saying she had
been deceived, you never doubted for a moment that what you hoped for
had come to pass, and that it was Miss Silence whom she thought had
deceived her?”

“It was Miss Silence she meant.”

“Did she say her name?”

“She didn’t need to. I knew who she meant.”

“Well, you thought you knew—didn’t you? But then you had been thinking
very constantly about Miss Silence—you had quite got her on your mind.
You agreed with me just now about that.”

“I knew what I knew.”

Hugo Vane assumed his sunniest expression.

“Mrs. Bridling, do you know what is meant by ‘wishful thinking’?”

Ellen peered suspiciously.

“It’s one of those newspaper words.”

A faint ripple of laughter went round the court, hushed instantly under
the judge’s frown.

Hugo Vane said, “Quite so,” in an encouraging voice. And then, “Do you
know what it means?”

“I never troubled myself.”

“Well, in practice we all indulge in it sometimes, I’m afraid. It means
thinking about something and wishing for it until you really believe
that it is happening or going to happen. I suggest to you that you were
indulging in wishful thinking when you identified Miss Silence with the
person by whom Mrs. Maquisten said she had been deceived.”

“I didn’t think nothing about it. I knew that it was Miss Silence.”

With a beaming smile Hugo Vane struck back.

“Exactly! Without stopping to think you assumed that Miss Silence was
meant. That is the plain meaning of your words, isn’t it? You didn’t
stop to think, did you? You had your preconceived idea, and that was
enough for you. You didn’t think, did you?”

“I didn’t have to.”

“Neither then nor at any other time during that interview? You didn’t
have to think?”

He turned for a moment and directed a glance of bright good-fellowship
towards the jury. At Ellen’s defiant, “No, I didn’t!” he turned back
again, shaking his head.

“You didn’t think at all. Because you had already made up your mind?”

“Yes, I had.”

“So that, whatever Mrs. Maquisten said or didn’t say really made no
difference, because just as soon as you heard her say that somebody had
deceived her you were quite sure it was Miss Silence?”

“I knew it was Miss Silence.”

“Without thinking about it at all?”

“Yes.”

Once more the bright, good-humoured look travelled across the jury box.
Once more he turned back with that slight shake of the head.

“Just one more question, Mrs. Bridling. Miss Silence’s name was never
mentioned at all—neither by you nor by Mrs. Maquisten?”

“There wasn’t any need.”

“That’s not what I asked you. You will answer my question, if you
please. Did Mrs. Maquisten mention Miss Carey Silence at all during that
interview?”

“No.”

“Her name wasn’t mentioned at all, either by Mrs. Maquisten or by you?”

“Not by name.”

“Throughout the entire interview the name was never mentioned?”

“No.” The word came slow and reluctant from thin, sour lips.

“Now, Mrs. Bridling, we know that you have been a long time with Mrs.
Maquisten—nearly thirty-six years. That is a long time. You were
doubtless much attached to her. You had her interests very much at
heart?”

“I done what I could.”

“To protect those interests—that is what you mean?”

She looked at him before she said, “Yes.”

“You were on the look-out to protect her from being imposed upon?”

The look became a stare.

“She was very good-hearted. There was always some that was ready to take
advantage.”

“And you made it your business to protect her from those people?”

“I did my best.”

“You made it your business to warn her against such people?”

The stare became defiant.

“There wasn’t anything wrong about that!”

“Oh dear no—I’m not suggesting it—not for a moment. You warned her on
a good many occasions, didn’t you?”

“When I thought she was going to be imposed upon.”

“And against a good many different people?”

“If I thought they were trying to impose upon her.”

“Quite so. How many people did you warn her against during the last year
of her life, do you suppose?”

Ellen looked down at her hands and the clean linen handkerchief.

“I couldn’t say, I’m sure.”

“Let me see if I can help you. You say that people were always trying to
impose on Mrs. Maquisten. Would you say that more than three or four
people had tried to do this in the course of that last year?”

“I couldn’t say.”

He gave her a good-humoured smile.

“Come, Mrs. Bridling, I don’t think you’re trying. Perhaps I have put
the number too low. Would it have been as many as five, or six?”

“It might have been.”

“Would it have been more than that?”

“I didn’t keep count.”

“But it might have been as many as seven, or eight, or nine?”

“I can’t say.”

His smile broadened.

“Well, I won’t press you. But you will agree that there were a good many
occasions during that last year of her life when various people made
what you considered attempts to impose on Mrs. Maquisten, and when you
thought it was your duty to warn her?”

“Yes. I never done anything but what I considered was my duty. I’d been
with her a long time.”

“So that when Miss Silence came along she was just one more person who
was trying to impose, and against whom you considered it was your duty
to warn Mrs. Maquisten?”

“Yes.”

“So when you went in to Mrs. Maquisten on the evening of November 16th
and she said you had warned her but she wouldn’t listen, there were at
least eight or nine people she might have meant?”

“She meant Miss Silence.”

“Yes—that is what you thought. Miss Silence was very much on your mind
just then—you have already admitted that. But actually there were a
number of other people against whom you had warned Mrs. Maquisten—you
admitted that too, you know—and whilst you jumped to the conclusion
that Miss Silence was meant, Mrs. Maquisten might have been referring to
someone else. That is so, is it not?”

“It was Miss Silence she meant.”

“I don’t doubt that you thought so, Mrs. Bridling. But you have already
said that no name was ever mentioned between you. I put it to you that
since no name was mentioned, you and Mrs. Maquisten may very easily have
been at cross purposes—she meaning one person, and you taking her to
mean another.”

“I knew who she meant.”

“You mean that that is your opinion?”

“Yes.”

“You have very strong opinions?”

“I know what I know.”

“It would never enter your head to suppose that you could be mistaken?”

“No, it wouldn’t.”

“Not even when a fellow creature’s life is at stake?”

“That’s not my business.”

“No—that’s quite right. It is only your business to be sure that you
are keeping to the facts. An opinion is not a fact, is it? Is it, Mrs.
Bridling?”

“I don’t know what you mean.”

“Well, I won’t press you. But one of the facts in this case is your
dislike for Miss Silence—isn’t it? You have admitted to this
dislike—haven’t you?”

Ellen lifted her yellow lids and looked across the court at Carey
Silence, her head poked forward, her eyes slitted and rimmed with red.
The spark which looked out of them was cold and deadly. The word which
Hugo Vane had used seemed suddenly an empty trifle.

Carey looked back because she would not look away, and all at once it
came to her that she was safe. Ellen hated her, but she didn’t hate
Ellen. She knew of no reason why Ellen should hate her. It was something
beyond reason. She felt a horrified recoil and pity. She looked gravely
back, and heard Hugo Vane repeat his question.

“You have admitted that you disliked Miss Silence?”

Ellen turned back to him.

“I’ve no call to like her.”

The court rose for lunch.




                                 XXXII


Hugo Vane resumed his cross-examination after lunch. Ellen was
questioned minutely as to her comings and goings between the bedroom and
the bathroom. Question and answer followed one another like the ball
across a tennis net. Carey, watching and listening, sometimes felt as if
it was all a game. It didn’t seem possible that her life might depend
upon just what question was put, what answer was given. Ellen didn’t
look at her again. She stood there in her decorous old-fashioned black
and gave her answers deliberately in a harsh, unmodulated voice.

For all his pressing Hugo Vane now gained little or nothing for the
defence. She swore, and continued to swear, that the medicine-glass had
been less than half full when she saw it last, and she put her last
sight of it at twenty past eight, fixing the time by the fact that Mrs.
Maquisten’s tray had just come up. Less than half an hour later, when
Carey Silence brought that glass through from the bathroom, three people
had testified that it was three-quarters full. And during that half hour
who was there to have access to the bathroom and time and opportunity to
dissolve the additional tablets and add them to the mixture? Ellen
declared that she had not left Mrs. Maquisten alone during the whole of
that time except to step into the bathroom—when in the end she did
leave her it was with Carey Silence. She swore positively that quite
five minutes had gone by before Honor King joined them. It was
impossible to shake her on any of these points.

With imperturbable good temper Hugo Vane shifted his ground.

“Mrs. Maquisten was not alone from the time you went to her just after
eight o’clock until she took the sleeping-draught?”

“No, she wasn’t.”

“But she was quite alone between half past seven when you looked in to
say you were going upstairs to Miss King until your return at five
minutes past eight?”

“So far as I know.”

“You told my learned friend that Mrs. Maquisten could get out of bed if
she wanted to?”

“Yes.”

“And walk?”

“Yes.”

“She could have walked into the bathroom?”

“If she wanted to.”

“Nurse Brayle told us that the bottle of tablets was in a glass-fronted
cupboard immediately over the wash-basin. The shelf with the
medicine-glass was between this cupboard and the basin?”

“Yes.”

“There was, I suppose, some glass or tumbler either in the cupboard or
by the side of the wash-basin?”

“There was two tumblers.”

“It would have been possible for Mrs. Maquisten to open the cupboard,
reach down the bottle of tablets, dissolve some of them in one of the
tumblers, and put tumbler and bottle back in the cupboard?”

“That’s not for me to say.”

“I am not asking you whether you think she did this. I am asking you
whether she was physically capable of doing it.”

Ellen continued to look blank.

“She could have walked to the basin and stood there for long enough to
have done these things?”

“She could if she wanted to.”

“Now, Mrs. Bridling—are you prepared to swear that Mrs. Maquisten was
not in the bathroom after twenty past eight when you last noticed the
depth of the liquid in the medicine-glass?”

For the first time Ellen hesitated. Her lips moved as if she were about
to speak, then closed again.

Hugo Vane smiled in his most encouraging manner.

“Please take as long as you like. Ah—I see you are beginning to
remember! Molly James came up with the savoury, didn’t she, and saw Mrs.
Maquisten returning from the bathroom? You remember that?”

“Yes.”

“Mrs. Maquisten was alone in the bathroom?”

“Yes. She wasn’t gone any time.”

“It wouldn’t take very long to tip a little liquid out of a tumbler into
that medicine-glass, would it? To use your own words, it would hardly
take any time, would it? Thank you, Mrs. Bridling.”

In re-examination Ellen, guided by Sir Wilbury Fossett, asseverated that
she had never heard Mrs. Maquisten say that she wanted to die, or that
she was tired of life, or anything to give rise to the slightest
suspicion that she was contemplating suicide. There was a ring of
conviction in the harsh voice.

“Many’s the time she said to me it was a thing that passed her how
anyone could do such a thing as take their life. ‘I’m much too fond of
mine,’ she’d say, and I mean to hang on to it just so long as I can’.”




                                 XXXIII


With the end of the third day the case for the prosecution closed.

“Well, they’ve shot their bolt,” said Mr. Mordaunt.

Jeff Stewart did not find much comfort in this remark. He said nothing.

Mr. Mordaunt observed that Ellen Bridling was the worst type of witness
to have against you—too tough to be nervous, and too stupid and
opinionated to be shaken.

“And wherever she gets it from, she makes what she’s saying at any rate
sound like the truth.”

Jeff turned aside.

“Do you think it struck the jury that way—do you think they believed
her?”

Mr. Mordaunt continued to be cheerful.

“You can’t tell with juries,” he said. “She was vindictive—they don’t
like that. She’s got her knife into the girl all right, but when you
come to ask why—well, she’s got her answer, hasn’t she? She’d been
thirty-five years with Mrs. Maquisten. She was fond of her—I should say
she really was fond of her. When she cried it looked to me like the real
thing. Of course you can’t tell, but her eyes swelled up and got red,
and if she can do that to order she’s cleverer than I think. It looked
genuine to me, and I’m afraid the jury thought so too. Well, once you
admit that, she’s got a reason for hating Miss Silence, and she made it
quite clear what the reason was. She thinks Miss Silence did it, and she
stuck at nothing to make the jury think so too. Vane did his best, and I
don’t say that he didn’t score a point or two, but I’m afraid that what
the jury are going to remember is that someone who knew Mrs. Maquisten
very well was quite sure she was speaking about Miss Silence. And
unfortunately that doesn’t stand alone—Hood had the same conviction,
and stuck to it just as tenaciously.”

“They’re lying!”

“Well, you know, I wouldn’t say that. To start with, what motive could
they possibly have in common? If they knew each other by sight and by
name it’s about as far as it would go, and if you can think of a common
motive, I can’t. Mrs. Bridling had her annuity under either will, and
Hood had never been down for anything. Besides, if they were lying, how
easy to go a step farther and say that Miss Silence was mentioned by
name. That’s what sticks in my throat, you know.”

Jeff bent a sudden frowning regard upon him.

“They might be keeping a line of retreat. Have you thought of that?
There’s that letter—we don’t know who wrote it, and it doesn’t look as
if we ever should, but since someone did write it, there must be a
chance somewhere that it might come out. Suppose it did—suppose someone
were to come forward and say, ‘All right, I wrote that letter, and I
don’t feel justified in holding my tongue about it any longer. The
person I accused to Mrs. Maquisten was—well, not Carey Silence.’ It
wouldn’t be a bad plan to leave yourself a get-away just in case that
happened. You couldn’t be proceeded against because you had
misunderstood what an angry and excited person had said, could you? Not
as long as you kept clear of swearing to a name which didn’t turn out to
be the right one.”

Mr. Mordaunt gazed at him with more than a shade of cynicism in his
expression.

“You are suggesting a conspiracy between these two people?”

“I’m not suggesting anything. I only know that Carey hadn’t anything to
do with Mrs. Maquisten’s death, and that anyone who tries to make it
appear that she had is ignorant, malicious, or guilty.” The voice which
delivered this was slow and drawling. The eye which observed Mr.
Mordaunt’s change of countenance was compelling.

The solicitor hastened to speak.

“You knew Mrs. Maquisten. From your knowledge of her, what would you say
about the accounts given by Hood and Ellen Bridling of what she is
supposed to have said? Some of the expressions used were a bit unusual.
Were they the sort of things Mrs. Maquisten might have said?”

There was quite a pause before he got his answer. Jeff said slowly,

“Yes—I think so.”

“All that about going up with the rocket and coming down with the stick,
and ‘Those that go up quick can come down quick’? Was that the sort of
thing she would be likely to say?”

There was a most unwilling “Yes”.

“Very unusual expressions for anyone to invent,” said Mr. Mordaunt
drily. Then, as if to bridge an awkward gap, “Vane’s line will be
suicide. He’s made that clear.”

“I don’t believe that Honoria Maquisten committed suicide. Why should
she? She had a family scene all planned. Ask any of the nephews and
nieces, and they’ll tell you how much she enjoyed that kind of thing.
The person who wasn’t going to enjoy it was the person who was to be cut
out of the new will. And it wasn’t Carey Silence.”

Mordaunt stared.

“Can you suggest who it was? Mrs. Hull—Mr. Harland—Mr. Robert
Maquisten—Miss Honor King?”

“I don’t know which one of them it was, but it wasn’t Carey.”

“Robert Maquisten was never inside the house all day. Harland was on
confidential terms with his aunt as late as half past six, smoothing her
down about the nurse going out, so it is obvious that her anger was not
against him. Also, if Ellen saw the glass less than half full as late as
twenty minutes past eight, and saw him coming along on his crutch from
the corner and going into the bedroom when he came up after dinner, he
had no possible opportunity of tampering with it. The same applies to
Honor King. She was with Mrs. Hull or under Ellen’s eye from the time
they left the dinner table until she reached the bedroom. In the same
way, Mrs. Hull was first with Miss King, and afterwards heard running
down the stairs and seen coming along the passage.”

“By Ellen. There’s rather a lot of Ellen, isn’t there?”

“Well, she couldn’t help seeing who came along that passage, could she?”

Jeff’s jaw set grimly.

“Not if she wanted to. I could bear to know just why she wanted to.”




                                 XXXIV


Carey Silence came into court on the fourth day. It was the beginning of
a new week. Monday morning. The strangest Sunday of her life lay between
her and the last time she had gone down these stairs from the dock. She
came up them now. Sunday was behind her. Always when she looked back
upon it she had a picture in her mind of grey water dreaming under a
grey mist, endlessly becalmed. Because it was like that. For a timeless
space everything had stopped—fear, hope, grief, past, present, and
future, all muffled into calm, all hidden by that merciful mist. She
slept for hours, and waked as you wake from an anæsthetic, vague and
uncaring.

Everyone was very kind. She hardly knew how the time passed, but it did
pass. It was Monday.

She came back into the court. As she took her accustomed place and
looked across the sea of faces she had a grave little smile for Jeff and
Nora. Then she sat back and listened to Hugo Vane making his opening
speech for the defence. She thought it was a very good speech. She
wondered what she would have thought of it if she had been in the jury
box instead of in the dock. And then she wondered what the jury were
thinking about. For the first time she gave them her attention. The
women first. The sharp-faced spinster was sitting bolt upright with a
critical eye and a slightly superior expression. The little person with
the bleached fair hair and the odd flyaway hat was gazing at Sir Wilbury
Fossett’s profile. The stout woman with the heavy face was listening
attentively. She looked kind and sensible. Carey thought, “That’s what
I’m thinking about her, and it doesn’t matter at all. What matters
terribly, _terribly_, is what she is thinking about me.” The curious
thing was that though these words were in her mind, she couldn’t really
feel that it mattered, only she was glad that the woman looked
trustworthy and kind.

She came next to the foreman—good-looking, middle-aged, well set-up,
with a fresh complexion and stiff fair hair that looked fairer than it
really was because it was turning grey. She thought, “He might have
daughters of just about my age,” and she thought he would keep them in
order, and that if he once made up his mind about anything he would
never change it. She wondered if he had made up his mind about her.
There was a little man like a white rabbit sitting next to him. His ears
stuck out, his nose twitched, and he never took his eyes off Hugo Vane.
She went on looking at them one by one—the man with the beard—the man
with the ginger moustache which was much too big for the rest of
him—the man with the shiny bald head—the man who looked as if he’d
never thought about anything in his life, heavy and red in the face,
with little piggy eyes—the red-haired man who appeared to have given up
having his hair cut for the duration, and who managed to keep one eye on
Hugo Vane whilst the other roamed at will. There they were, all
attentive, all listening, except possibly the red-faced man and the
little faded blonde.

Just for a moment she was glad to be where she was, and not to be one of
them, with the awful responsibility of judging whether someone was to
live or die. No, not someone—Carey Silence. Even then she didn’t feel
anything. Only she didn’t want to look at the jury any longer.

Hugo Vane finished his speech, and the first witness for the defence was
called.

“Eleanor Field!”

For a startled moment Carey was back at school, with Miss Field coming
into Hall to read prayers. The illusion persisted while she took the
oath. In just such a manner and in just such a voice had those faraway
devotional exercises been conducted, and except for the fact that she
wore a coat and hat Miss Field looked just the same. Three immaculate
grey curls on either side and a long grey roll at the back, thin eagle
face, dark piercing eyes, upright slender figure, air of majestic
authority—none of these things had changed.

When she had finished taking the oath she turned easily to Mr. Telfer,
junior counsel for the defence who had risen to his feet, and awaited
his first question. It was put in a suitably respectful voice, and
replied to in beautifully clear tones. Carey Silence had been under her
charge between the ages of fourteen and eighteen and a half, when she
left to take a secretarial course. During that time her character and
her influence in the school were uniformly good. Her principles and
ideals were high.

“I had no hesitation in giving her an extremely warm testimonial when
she was applying for the post of secretary to my old friend Mr. Andrews.
She obtained the post and remained in it until Mr. Andrews’ death from
enemy action last August.”

“Thank you, Miss Field.”

Mr. Telfer sat down, and Mr. Lanthony rose for the Crown.

“When did Miss Silence leave your school?”

“Four years ago.”

Mr. Lanthony said, “Thank you.”

As Eleanor Field left the box, there was no one in the court who was not
thinking of all the things that can happen in four years, especially in
those four years which separate eighteen from twenty-two. Carey was
thinking that herself. School was a world within a world. Its laws, its
rules, its loyalties, its customs, and its standards, so all-important
during those adolescent years, faded, receded, and were of no account
when you passed into the other world outside. As she sat there in the
dock she could remember being lifted to the heights of bliss by being
chosen to play in the tennis singles. She could remember the agony of
her conviction that she had failed in her matric, and the pure heavenly
joy of learning that she had passed with honours. In their day and in
their world these things had called forth the extremity of feeling. And
now they didn’t matter at all. She was in the dock on a murder charge,
and presently those twelve people whom she had been looking at before
Miss Field was called would say whether they thought she was a murderess
or not. You can come a long, long way in four years.

“Call Emmeline Andrews!”

Carey came back from her thoughts to watch Mrs. Andrews come up into the
box, roundabout and dumpy, her rosy face a little paler than it used to
be, but otherwise just the same. Even her clothes. That was her pre-war
black coat, with the brown fur collar taken off and one of black
astrakhan put on. Carey even knew where the astrakhan had come from,
because every spring while she was with the Andrews, she had helped to
put away the winter clothes in camphor, and right down at the bottom of
the chest there had been an old-fashioned pillow muff of very good
astrakhan. Well, there it was, framing Mrs. Andrews’ round anxious face.
And she was wearing the unbecoming three-cornered hat which she had
insisted oh buying last winter in spite of all that Carey could say or
do—a smart, sophisticated hat that belonged to quite a different type
of person. It was never straight, because it had been made to sit on a
lot of piled-up curls, and Mrs. Andrews had nothing but a straight, wide
parting and a little iron-grey knob behind. Carey thought, “Someone
ought to have put it straight for her,” but of course there wasn’t
anyone to do it now.

And then Mrs. Andrews was taking the oath and gasping out replies to Mr.
Telfer, who was doing his best to encourage her. It was obvious that she
was going to need a great deal of encouragement. She kept on taking
breath, but no matter how much she took there never seemed to be enough
to support the words.

Mr. Telfer was very patient and respectful.

“Miss Silence was employed by your late husband as his secretary?”

“Yes.”

“He was a Member of Parliament?”

“Oh, yes.”

“Just a little louder, Mrs. Andrews, if you will. How long was Miss
Silence in Mr. Andrews’ employ?”

“Three years.”

“Was she still in his employ at the time of his death last August?”

Mrs. Andrews’ round blue eyes became suffused with moisture.

“Oh, yes—she was with him.”

“The train in which they were travelling was machine-gunned by enemy
aircraft?”

In a voice that was suddenly loud Mrs. Andrews pronounced an opinion.
She said, “Very wicked!” and stared challengingly at Mr. Telfer, who
said, “Certainly.”

Having found her voice, Mrs. Andrews continued.

“And he saved her life. He covered her with his own body and saved her
life.”

Mr. Telfer looked respectfully sympathetic.

“Very gallant conduct, Mrs. Andrews. You must feel very proud of him.
And now just a few questions about Miss Silence. During the three years
that she was your late husband’s secretary, did she live with you?”

“Like a daughter,” said Mrs. Andrews, her voice still loud.

“Will you tell us how you found her during those three years of close
relationship.”

Mrs. Andrews took her breath and expelled the words.

“A very sweet girl.”

“Had you any fault to find with her conduct?”

“Oh, no—we shouldn’t have kept her if we had. My husband was very
strict indeed. I don’t mean that he was unkind—you mustn’t think that.
He was the kindest of men, but he expected a very high standard of moral
conduct. He was a true Christian himself, and he expected Christian
principles in the home.”

“And you were both satisfied with Miss Silence?”

Mrs. Andrews took another breath.

“Sometimes a little heedless,” she said—“but of course young. She did
not always remember to see that Mr. Andrews put on his scarf after an
evening meeting. I know he could be very obstinate about it, but he
should have been made to put it on.”

Mr. Telfer turned his pleasant smile upon the jury and found about half
of them smiling too. He turned back to Mrs. Andrews.

“And was that the only complaint you had to make?”

The three-cornered hat slipped a little farther to the left as Mrs.
Andrews shook her head.

“She didn’t always make him take his ovaltine when he came in. And
whether he preferred tea had nothing to do with it, because it isn’t the
same nourishment, and it’s no good anyone saying it is.”

Two more jurymen smiled.

“But apart from these, shall we say, venial omissions, you had no fault
to find?”

“A little worldly in her dress.”

Mr. Telfer was unable to suppress a look of astonishment.

“_Worldly?_”

Mrs. Andrews nodded, bringing the hat forward with a jerk.

“Favour is deceitful and beauty is vain. And though a girl can’t help it
if the Lord has made her good-looking, there is no need to go any
farther. Hair-curlers! Face-cream! Even lipstick—until my husband put
his foot down!”

Mr. Telfer began to feel as if Mrs. Andrews should have been called by
the prosecution. He contrived an appealing smile.

“These things are just a fashion, are they not? You said Miss Silence
was a very sweet girl.”

“Skirts up to the knees!” said Mrs. Andrews. The full tide of rosy
colour had come back to her face. “And don’t talk to me about fashion,
because it’s no excuse! So I told her, ‘We like you very much, my dear,
and Mr. Andrews has no fault to find with your work. We are prepared to
treat you like a daughter. But there must be no lipstick in this house,
or cigarettes, or painted nails. And the skirt of your dress must be at
least one inch below the knee, which is the least I consider decent.’
And after that we got on very well.”

Mr. Telfer hoped the jury shared his feeling that a girl who had lived
for three years with Mrs. Andrews without murdering her could not
reasonably be suspected of a homicidal tendency.

“And Miss Silence agreed?”

“Oh, yes.”

“That sounds as if she was both sweet-tempered and obliging. You did say
that she was a very sweet girl, didn’t you?”

“I’m not making any complaint. I shouldn’t have mentioned what I did if
it hadn’t been for swearing to tell the whole truth.”

Mr. Telfer persevered.

“Then once these small points were amicably settled between you, how did
you find Miss Silence?”

“She was all right.”

Mr. Telfer gave it up.

As he sat down, Mr. Lanthony got to his feet.

“Just a moment, Mrs. Andrews. You found Miss Silence inclined to be
thoughtless?”

Mrs. Andrews’ round blue eyes fixed themselves upon him in a look of
surprise.

“Oh, no.”

“Well, you rather conveyed that idea.”

Mrs. Andrews shook her head. The hat slid.

“Certainly not. A very thoughtful girl.”

“Perhaps the word should have been ‘frivolous’.”

He received a glance of reproof.

“Neither my husband nor myself would have kept a frivolous girl in our
house for three years.”

A faint smile began to play about Mr. Telfer’s lips. Mr. Lanthony
ploughed on.

“But you were not altogether satisfied with her behaviour?”

“I don’t expect a young girl to be perfect. I pointed out her faults,
and she corrected them. We are poor sinful creatures, but she had good
Christian principles and she did her best to live up to them. None of us
can say more than that. I certainly don’t set myself up to judge other
people—I have faults of my own.”

Mr. Lanthony appeared staggered. He was observed to blink. But he
returned to the charge.

“You say we all have faults. That is quite true. Will you tell us what
faults you observed in Miss Silence.”

Mrs. Andrews gave an emphatic nod.

“When she first came to us she had been led away into following worldly
fashions, but she was very good-tempered and obliging about giving them
up—no sulks, no injured looks. After that we had no fault to find. She
was very sweet-tempered and unselfish. We became attached to her.”

Mr. Lanthony, now a deep plum-colour, said hastily, “Thank you, Mrs.
Andrews,” and sat down.

If Mr. Telfer had been anywhere except in court he would have hummed a
little tune.




                                  XXXV


When the court resumed after lunch Jeff Stewart was called. When he had
taken the oath he looked across to Carey and smiled.

Hugo Vane rose to examine.

“You are a citizen of the United States?”

“Yes.”

“You are in this country on government business?”

“Yes.”

“What is your connection with Miss Carey Silence?”

“Well, her father’s sister married my uncle, so I had an introduction to
her when I came over in September. I found she was in hospital after
being shot up in the train affair which has been mentioned, and I
visited her there whenever I could. When she came to London to Mrs.
Maquisten’s I got engaged to her.”

“Will you tell us something about your financial position, Mr. Stewart.”

“Well, I am a partner in a concern that has gone over to making
aeroplanes. We used to handle automobiles. It is a family concern—my
uncle is the other partner. It has always brought in quite a lot of
money.”

“Would you call yourself a rich man?”

“I suppose I might be called that.”

“And you say you were engaged to Miss Silence?”

“I _am_ engaged to her.”

The colour ran up into Carey’s face and burned there. He looked at her
for a moment, and looked away again.

“Miss Silence knew of your financial position?”

Jeff Stewart nodded.

“Oh, yes, she knew.”

“How far had you got in the direction of making plans to get married?”

“Well, we had got to talking about wedding presents. I wanted to give
her a mink coat.”

“You had got as far as talking about the wedding?”

“I had.”

“How soon did you propose to get married?”

“Just as soon as Miss Silence would marry me.”

“Was Miss Silence aware of this?”

“She couldn’t fail to be aware of it.”

“In these circumstances had she any reason to be anxious about her
financial position—or prospects?”

Mr. Stewart said in a very determined voice,

“She knew very well that she could count on me, and on every cent I
had.”

“Thank you.”

Hugo Vane sat down.

Sir Wilbury Fossett rose.

“This engagement to Miss Silence—had it been given out?”

“No.”

“Miss Silence was under Mrs. Maquisten’s care—had she been informed
that you were engaged?”

“No.”

“Had anyone been informed?”

“No—it had only just happened. I had to be out of London.”

“Oh, it had only just happened. Will you tell us when it happened.”

“I met Miss Silence when she arrived in London on the second of
November, and I took her out to lunch next day. I talked to her then
about getting married.”

“But you didn’t tell anyone. Are you quite sure you told Miss Silence?”

Mr. Stewart stood easily in the box. He had resumed his slight agreeable
drawl. He was fighting for Carey’s life, but he knew very well that he
must not talk as if he were fighting for it. He said,

“Oh, yes, I told her. We talked about wedding presents and what kind of
fur coat she would let me give her.”

“And what kind of coat did Miss Silence prefer?”

“She wouldn’t say. We kind of got off the track. I was talking about
getting married.”

“And what did Miss Silence say to that?”

“She seemed to think she wanted a little more time.”

“But you said you were engaged.”

“I said _I_ was engaged. I am. I’m here any time she wants me. She’s
known that all along.”

“So you are engaged to Miss Silence, but Miss Silence isn’t engaged to
you.”

“That is entirely for Miss Silence to say.”

“Thank you, Mr. Stewart.”

Sir Wilbury Fossett sat down.

Jeff Stewart turned to leave the box. As Carey’s eyes followed him, she
heard her own name called aloud.

“Call Carey Silence!”

Her heart began to beat wildly. She had a moment of dreadful panic. The
wardress touched her, and she got up obediently. You learned to be
obedient in prison. She went down one set of steps and up another, and
stood where all those other people had stood, and took the oath as they
had taken it.

“I swear by Almighty God to speak the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth.”

The words left a solemn feeling in her mind. Her heart-beats quieted.
She looked at Hugo Vane and thought, “That’s all I’ve got to do—just
tell the truth.”

And then he was asking her questions and she heard her own voice
answering him, a little shakily at first, but steadying as she went on.
He took her through the scenes which had been described so often.

Sunday afternoon and Cousin Honoria showing her the rubies. Hugo Vane
asking, “Had Mrs. Maquisten said anything about making you a present of
jewellery before this?”

“Yes—there was something about some diamonds.”

“What did you say to that?”

“I said they wouldn’t be any good to me because I couldn’t wear them.”

“And when she showed you the rubies?”

“She made me try them on, and when she said she was going to leave them
to me I said, ‘Oh, _no_! And Ellen Bridling said I was right—they had
belonged to old Mrs. Maquisten and they ought to go to Robert Maquisten
or to Honor King. I said, ‘_Please_, Cousin Honoria——’ and she told us
both to hold our tongues. Afterwards, when Ellen was putting the rubies
away, she took my hand and held it against her cheek and called me a
proud, obstinate creature.” Carey’s voice shook a good deal on the
words.

“Did Mrs. Maquisten in fact give you any jewellery?”

“She gave me a brooch which had belonged to my grandmother.”

“Did she tell you anything about its value?”

“Yes—she said it wasn’t valuable at all. It was very pretty. She told
me she picked it up in an antique shop to give to my grandmother just
before she died. She said it cost about five pounds. She said she would
like me to have it.”

“That was the only present of jewellery you accepted?”

“Yes.”

He took her on to the next day, November 16th. She heard herself
describing how she had come back after lunching with Dennis Harland to
find Cousin Honoria shaking with excitement and anger, clamouring aloud
that she had been deceived, and that Mr. Aylwin must be sent for—she
must alter her will.

“In all this anger and excitement did Mrs. Maquisten name the person who
had deceived her?”

“No, she didn’t.”

“Did she say anything at all to make you suppose that she thought you
were that person?”

“Oh, no.”

“Was she angry with you?”

“Not at first—she was just angry. Afterwards she was angry with me
because I tried to persuade her to wait a little before ringing up Mr.
Aylwin.”

“Why did you do that?”

“She was so dreadfully excited—I thought it must be bad for her.”

“Had you any other motive?”

Carey lifted those very dark blue eyes.

“Oh, no. I did truly think it wasn’t safe for her to be so angry.”

“That was all you thought about?”

“Yes.”

He bent his pleasant smile upon her.

“Miss Silence—where was the telephone fixture?”

“On a table by the window.”

“It has been stated in evidence that Mrs. Maquisten was perfectly able
to get out of bed and walk about. Do you know why she waited for you to
come in? Why did she not put through the call herself?”

“She never used the telephone.”

“Never?”

“That is what my cousins told me. She was just a little deaf, and
telephoning worried her.”

He took her on through the day—what she did, what she said—the
conversation at the dinner table—the order in which they went upstairs
. . .

“Will you tell us what happened when you went into Mrs. Maquisten’s
room.”

“Ellen Bridling was there. Cousin Honoria was up in her chair near the
fire. Ellen said she ought to be in bed quieting herself down. Cousin
Honoria was very angry. She hit the arm of her chair with her hand and
said, ‘You’ll hold your tongue and do what you’re told! And so will the
rest of them while I’ve got breath in my body!’ Ellen went away, and
Cousin Honoria called me to come up close to her. She looked at me for a
minute, and then she said, ‘Do I frighten you? Did I frighten you just
now?’ And I said, ‘It’s bad for you, isn’t it?’ She gave a sort of nod
and said, ‘Oh, I’m not dead yet.’ And then she took my hand and said,
‘It wasn’t for you. I don’t want to frighten you—you mustn’t be afraid
of me. I couldn’t bear that—you’re so like Julia.’ That was my
grandmother. She loved her very much. She went on talking about her
until Honor came in.”

“Was she still holding your hand?”

“Yes.”

“Did you leave the bedroom between the time that Ellen Bridling went out
and Miss King came in?”

“No.”

“Did you go into the bathroom?”

“Oh, no.”

On through the scene which followed.

“It was Ellen Bridling who suggested that you should fetch the
sleeping-draught from the bathroom?”

“She suggested myself or Nora Hull.”

“Who actually asked you to fetch it?”

“Cousin Honoria.”

“Will you tell us what you did.”

“I went into the bathroom, switched on the light, took the
medicine-glass off the shelf over the wash-basin, switched out the
light, and came back into the bedroom.”

“Did you open the glass-fronted cupboard?”

“No.”

“Did you touch the bottle of tablets either then or at any other time?”

“No.”

“Did you then or at any other time dissolve any of those tablets or any
other tablets and add them to the contents of the medicine-glass
containing the sleeping-draught?”

“Oh, no!” Her voice rang clear and firm.

“Did you desire Mrs. Maquisten’s death?”

“Oh, no!”

“Did you do anything to cause it?”

“Of course not. No one had ever been so good to me. I loved her.” The
colour came up in her face as she said the words. Her voice shook on the
last of them.

Hugo Vane said, “Thank you, Miss Silence.”

The court rose.




                                 XXXVI


As Jeff Stewart walked away he heard light running footsteps behind him.
A hand was slipped inside his arm. Nora Hull said,

“Jeff——”

He turned to look down at her, and found her bright-eyed and pale in the
dusk. There was a low, lead-coloured sky, and an edgy wind at every
street corner. He wanted to get away, to walk miles with the wind in his
face. He wanted to have done as quickly as possible with whatever it was
Nora had to say.

“Jeff—I want to talk to you.”

“I don’t think I’m fit to talk to anyone.”

She had a hold on his sleeve. Her eyes were very bright indeed.

“I want to talk to you, Jeff. Come home with me.”

He shook his head.

She went on urgently.

“You needn’t see Dennis, or Honor, or anyone except me.”

“What do you want?”

He had never seen her pale before. She was so pale that the lipstick on
her mouth gave her a little the look of a clown, the contrast was so
sharp. She said in a lost, unhappy voice,

“I want to talk to someone who doesn’t think she did it.”

That pricked him—that, and the little clutching hand at his sleeve. He
said,

“I’ll walk back with you, but I won’t come in.”

As they walked, she went on, still in that lost voice.

“They all think she did it. That’s what frightens me so. There were two
women just now when I was coming out of court—great fat women, going
home to kippers or sausages for their tea—and one of them said, ‘That
Mrs. Andrews she lived with three years, she didn’t have much to say for
her, did she?’ And the other one said, ‘No, she didn’t. I expect if the
rights of it were known, it was her wrote the letter which upset the
apple-cart. I bet you she knew a thing or two about Miss Carey
Silence.’”

Jeff tried to jerk his arm away, but she held on.

“Why do you tell me that sort of thing?”

Nora gave a sob.

“Because I shall burst if I can’t talk to someone—I really shall.
Dennis thinks she did it, and it’s done something frightful to him,
because he was in love with her. Everybody you meet thinks she did it.
I’ve quarrelled with Alan about it, and with Jack, and with Bobby. And
Bill—he’s thousands of miles away, and I haven’t had a letter from him
since Christmas. What’s the good of being married if you don’t get a
shoulder to cry on? What’s the good of a shoulder in the Middle East
when you want one here? And those horrible women were just the very last
straw. Only the men are just as bad. There was a horrid little wretch
just behind me, and he said, ‘Well, who did it if she didn’t?’ And
that’s just what everybody says. So I couldn’t bear it—I had to run
after you.”

He looked down at her with his frown gone.

“It’s tough, isn’t it?” And then, “Mordaunt’s pleased with the way she
gave her evidence.”

“I thought it was marvellous. I don’t see how they could listen to her
and think she did it. Do you?”

“No.”

They walked on in silence for a minute or two. Then Nora said,

“Jeff, what does Mordaunt think is the worst part of the evidence
against her?”

“Hood—and Ellen Bridling. Vane did his best to shake them, but Mordaunt
is afraid those conversations with Cousin Honoria will be sticking in
the minds of the jury—that and the fact that she obviously did mean to
cut one of the main legatees out of her will, and that on the evidence
the only one of them who had the opportunity of tampering with the stuff
after Ellen saw it at twenty past eight was Carey. Of course someone is
lying. But why? Why should Ellen lie to put it on Carey—unless she
thinks it was Honor or Dennis and wants to clear them?”

Nora shook her head vigorously.

“She hates us all. She’s got a hating nature. She’s a poisonous old
devil, but she _did_ love Aunt Honoria. As far as the rest of us are
concerned, she’d see us all hang. Once Aunt Honoria was gone and she’d
got her legacy, why should she care? She hates Dennis because he used to
imitate her when he was a schoolboy, and she isn’t the sort that ever
forgets. And she despises Honor. She wouldn’t lift a finger for either
of them.”

He gave a sort of groan.

“Well, that’s Ellen. Then there’s Hood. Any reason why Hood should lie?”

The hand on his arm gave a jerking pull. Nora said,

“If he thought it was Honor he might.”

“What!”

“But it couldn’t be Honor—it simply couldn’t. Ellen saw the stuff at
twenty past eight, and it was all right then. Honor simply wasn’t alone
one moment after that. She couldn’t have done it. And anyhow she
wouldn’t. She’s one of the most tiresome and irritating people who ever
lived, but she wouldn’t poison anyone. She’s the sort that goes flop,
not the sort that does something about it.”

Jeff pulled his arm away. His hand came down on Nora’s shoulder.

“What’s that got to do with Hood? What’s Honor got to do with him?”

She stared, round-eyed and a little frightened in the dusk.

“Didn’t you know? It was the family joke. He’d been sucking up to her
for months, ever since he got out of the Army. Den used to tease her—we
all did. I thought you knew.” The words came out in little rushes, too
many of them and too fast.

Jeff held her.

“Do you mean there was something between them? Is that what you mean?”

She gave a shaky nod, and then hurried to explain it away.

“I don’t suppose there was anything in it really. Den was rather a
beast, I thought. She’d never had anyone before. Even if it was only
Ernest Hood it was something. They used to go to the cinema—I expect
they held hands. I don’t suppose it got any farther than that. She got
no end of a kick out of it. You see, if you’ve never had anything, a
little goes a long way. She used to say she’d been out with Daphne
Smyth.”

“Hood was fond of her? Fond enough to perjure himself?”

The half frightened look in Nora’s eyes changed to a sparkle. She made a
face and said,

“I think he was passionately fond of what he thought she was going to
get from Aunt Honoria.” And then the fright was back again. She was
pulling at his coat and saying, “Jeff, don’t look like that. They
couldn’t have done it—neither of them could. Do you suppose Den and I
would have held our tongues and let Carey be tried if there had been the
slightest, faintest chance of putting it on that awful Ernest Hood? But
he simply couldn’t have had anything to do with it. He went away at four
o’clock, hours and hours before that damned sleeping-draught was mixed,
and more than an hour before Honor came home. And he was back in the
office before she left her parcel-packing place, because Den found out.
And she came straight home when she left, so they didn’t meet or
anything. So we thought, ‘What’s the good of dragging her in when she
couldn’t possibly have anything to do with it?’”

“Did Molly and Mrs. Deeping know about Hood and Honor?”

“I expect so. I told you it was a family joke. But they wouldn’t say
anything unless they were asked, and of course the police didn’t ask
because they didn’t know there was anything to ask about.”

“Carey—did Carey know?”

“Of course.”

“And she didn’t say?” His voice strained on the words.

“She wouldn’t drag Honor in just for nothing at all. It was quite bad
enough without that.” He felt her shoulder jerk pettishly under his
hand. “Jeff we’ll collect a crowd if we go on standing here.”

The hand lifted. He swung round and began to walk again. No words for a
long time—thoughts pounding in him—the blood pounding in his ears,
against his temples. Just how much did it matter, all this stuff they
had kept back? Would it have saved Carey? Would it have helped her? Was
it too late to help her now? He didn’t know. He would have to see
Mordaunt. Hood with his eye on the legacy which Honor King
expected—which Honor King had now got away with. A very substantial
legacy. Hood might do a good deal to get his hands on fifty thousand
pounds. . . . Suppose that letter had been to tell Honoria Maquisten
that Ernest Hood, her solicitor’s clerk, was making up to Honor King.
Her immediate reaction might very well have been to keep that fifty
thousand out of Hood’s hands for good and all by cutting Honor out of
her will. If that was the case and Hood knew it, their interview on that
Monday afternoon must have been a fairly sultry one. It would have
pleased Honoria Maquisten to make him the instrument of his own
humiliation and disappointment, and when it came to saying what had
happened—well, he couldn’t possibly afford to make it public. He would
lie, would suggest Carey Silence as the object of Honoria Maquisten’s
anger, would just stop short of naming her outright. Because of course
there was the writer of the letter to be reckoned with. He must have
felt tolerably sure that the person who wrote it wouldn’t show up. And
that meant he knew who the writer was. . . . That didn’t matter—not
now—not here. Assume Ernest Hood had lied about his interview with
Honoria Maquisten. Assume he lied when he said he thought all that about
going up with the rocket and coming down with the stick referred to
Carey. Because that was one of the things that had always stuck in his
throat. That phrase rang true. It wasn’t only that Honoria Maquisten
might have used it; he had never been able to get away from the
conviction that she _had_ used it. Well, so she might have done. But the
rocket would have been Ernest Hood, and not Carey Silence. With the
sputter and flash of an actual firework the question which had raised a
laugh in court shot through his mind and illumined it—“How would you
like to be a rocket, Mr. Hood?” Or perhaps what Honoria Maquisten had
really said was, “How do you like being a rocket?” . . .

The illumination died. His mind was dark again—quite dark. Because
there was no way by which Ernest Hood could have contrived Honoria
Maquisten’s death. If all these assumptions were true, he might most
ardently have desired it, but it could have got no farther than that. If
she died before she could alter her will and disinherit Honor
King—well, that was just his luck. If he lied afterwards to bolster up
that luck, it was as far as you could push it. There simply wasn’t one
shred of evidence to connect him with the death itself.

Unless—— A pin-point pricked the dark. He looked down at Nora, who had
been wondering if he was ever going to speak again, and said,

“Did Hood know Ellen Bridling? What sort of terms were they on?”

Her voice sounded surprised. She said quickly,

“Terms? Why, none at all, I should think. I suppose she may have seen
him when he came to the house.”

“Why?”

“I—don’t—know——” The words came out with a heavy weight on them,
slowly and widely spaced.

Nora tilted her head to look up.

“Why, Jeff, what are you thinking of? You must be crazy! Do you think
Ernest Hood came out of Aunt Honoria’s room, bumped into Ellen in the
passage, and said, ‘Just poison Mrs. Maquisten for me, will you’.”

He stared down at her.

“It sounds a bit sudden when you put it that way.”

Nora stamped her foot.

“It’s crazy! I tell you Ellen didn’t know him—not to speak of. And she
loved Aunt Honoria. She was all broken up when she died. You’re crazy.”

He nodded.

“I expect I am. But I don’t think I’ll come any farther with you. I’m
going to see Mordaunt.”




                                 XXXVII


After all, he couldn’t see Mordaunt. He wasn’t in his office, and he
wasn’t at his house. They were expecting him back, but they didn’t know
when.

He went on walking until the dusk turned to dark. By the time the last
of the light was gone a cold rain was falling, and after that the wind
swept the sky clear and the stars came pricking through.

He came back again to Mordaunt’s house, and found him not too pleased to
be pursued, but thawing into hospitality.

“Better dine with me now you’re here.”

“No, thanks—I didn’t come for that. There’s something——”

Mr. Mordaunt shook his head. He smiled, but he was determined.

“If you don’t want to eat, I do. I tell you frankly I’m not talking shop
until we’ve fed. Come through and meet my wife.”

A nightmare meal, but it did him good. Everything very well cooked.
Mordaunt full of pride, introducing his comfortable, placid wife as “Our
chef. Didn’t know how to cook a potato six months ago, and look at her
now!” They had soup, meat and vegetables fried in batter, and a cheese
flan. Mordaunt produced bottled beer, and they waited on themselves.
Afterwards Mrs. Mordaunt would wash up.

She brought them some excellent coffee to the study and left them.

Jeff plunged into his crazy tale. When it was finished he got a shake of
the head.

“Nothing doing, I’m afraid. If we’d known a bit earlier, Vane might have
made a pass or two at Hood when he cross-examined him, but there’s
nothing we can rake up now. We ought to have known of course—Miss
Silence ought to have told us. You say she knew?”

“Nora says so.”

Mordaunt’s eyebrows went up.

“What can you do if your client won’t help you? It might have been used
to shake Hood’s credit. It would have shown that he had a substantial
interest in turning suspicion on Miss Silence. I’ll have to see Vane,
but I don’t know that there’s anything to be done about it now. But we
might be able to use it if there was an appeal.”

The word crashed into Jeff’s mind like a stone through breaking glass.
After a minute he said,

“It’s as bad as that, is it?”

Mordaunt put down his coffee-cup.

“No, no, my dear fellow, I didn’t mean that at all—you’ve taken me up
all wrong. As a matter of fact I thought she did very well today. Very
important for the prisoner to make a good impression in the box. Juries
are only supposed to go by the evidence, but of course they don’t.
Equally, of course, it’s quite arguable that the way the accused gives
his evidence is inseparable from the evidence itself. Commonest
example—counsel always asks accused, ‘Did you do it?’ Fifty ways of
answering that. At least fifty ways of saying, ‘No, I didn’t,’ and quite
half of them negative or damaging. I thought Miss Silence did pretty
well over that. Some of them drop their eyes, drop their voices. Make it
a virtual admission of guilt. She spoke up, and she looked Vane straight
in the face. Of course she’ll get a stiff cross-examination tomorrow.”

He broke off to fill his cup again. As he set the coffee-pot down, the
telephone bell rang sharply. He stretched out his hand, picked up the
receiver, and inclined his ear. From where he sat Jeff Stewart heard a
voice rustle in the telephone—“Is that Mr. Mordaunt? Can I speak to Mr.
Mordaunt?”

“Mordaunt speaking.”

The rustling began again—a woman’s voice, insubstantial, bodiless,
rustling on the wire with the sound of a wind-driven leaf. But he could
hear what she said.

“Mr. Mordaunt, you won’t know my name—it is Janet Gwent. I have just
returned from the Middle East. I expected to be away a good deal longer.
I have only just heard of the Maquisten trial, and I want to talk to
you. Mr. Aylwin tells me you are the solicitor for the defence. You see,
I have been out of England since November 17th, but on the afternoon of
the 16th I left a letter for Mrs. Maquisten at 13 Maitland Square.”

The receiver jerked in Mr. Mordaunt’s hand. He said,

“_What!_” And then, “Do you mind saying that again?”

The voice said it again.

“I left a letter for Mrs. Maquisten at 13 Maitland Square at just after
two o’clock on Monday November 16th.”




                                XXXVIII


Tuesday morning. Carey in the box again, but no longer under the
cheerful, friendly guidance of Hugo Vane. The time she had dreaded so
much that she had really never let herself think about it had come. As
Sir Wilbury Fossett got up to cross-examine her she had a moment of
panic in which she saw him as she had seen him on the first day of the
trial—a skilled, implacable enemy, armed at every point, wholly bent on
destroying her. He had every weapon, and every art in using them. She
held herself against the panic by saying over and over, “I’ve only got
to tell the truth.” She turned to him with a grave, attentive look which
was not without dignity, and the questions began. Everything she had
said and done and thought, everything she hadn’t said and done and
thought, everything that the prosecution wanted to prove about those
words and thoughts and actions, came at her in the questions, sometimes
rapped out sharply, sometimes sliding in to take her by surprise,
sometimes fired at her point-blank to terrify and break her down.

“When you came to stay with Mrs. Maquisten, what was your financial
position?”

“I hadn’t very much money.”

“Indeed? Now, I wonder what you would call very much—these things are
relative. Had you a banking account?”

“No.”

“No banking account. Perhaps you had money in the Post Office?”

“No.”

“In National Savings Certificates or one of the other government loans?”

“No.”

“You had no savings of any kind?”

“I didn’t get a very high salary. I’m afraid I didn’t save any of it.”

“You had no savings. What money had you when you entered Mrs.
Maquisten’s household?”

Carey’s head lifted. She said in a young, proud voice,

“I had thirty shillings. Afterwards Mrs. Maquisten gave me five pounds
to go shopping with. It was very kind of her.”

“And that was all the money you had?”

“That was all the money I had.” Courteous agreement in her voice,
nothing more.

“Thirty shillings, and—how much had you left out of the five pounds by
November 16th?”

“I had three pounds left altogether.”

“Three pounds between you and destitution if you had been suddenly
turned out of the house next day.”

“There was no question of my being suddenly turned out of the house.”

“If there had been, three pounds would not have gone very far, would it?
Would it, Miss Silence?”

“I didn’t have to think about that.”

“Because another way out had occurred to you? Because you knew that when
that next day came Mrs. Maquisten would not be there to cut you out of
her will or send you out of her house?”

“No.”

“Then why didn’t you have to think about it?”

“Because there was no need. I didn’t think of having to leave. There
wasn’t any quarrel.”

“Mrs. Maquisten wasn’t angry with you?” His voice expressed the
liveliest surprise.

“Only when I didn’t want to telephone to Mr. Aylwin.”

“You heard Nurse Brayle’s evidence?”

“Yes.”

“She stated that Mrs. Maquisten was shouting at you in a great state of
excitement and anger. That was the case, was it not?”

“She was excited and angry, but not with me except when I wanted to wait
until she was quieter before ringing up Mr. Aylwin.”

The questions went on and on. Pressure to make her admit that Honoria
Maquisten’s anger had been directed against Carey Silence—

“You knew that you would benefit under Mrs. Maquisten’s will?”

“Yes—she told us all.”

“You knew that she proposed to alter that will—to cut out one of the
legatees? Which of them?” His voice rang on the words.

“She didn’t say.”

“She shouted at you in her anger and excitement? She said that she had
been deceived—that she was altering her will to cut the deceiver
out—and in all that anger and excitement she didn’t tell you who it
was?”

“No—she didn’t tell me.”

“So you came out of her room quite happy?”

“No.”

“Dear me, how surprising! You were not happy! But you wouldn’t be if you
knew you were going to be cut out of a legacy of fifty thousand
pounds—would you?”

“I didn’t know that.”

“You knew that Mr. Aylwin’s head clerk was on his way to take
instructions for that altered will?”

“Yes.”

“And you were not at all happy?”

Carey said in a grave, quiet tone,

“I was unhappy about Cousin Honoria. I was afraid she would make herself
ill.”

“That was very altruistic! You had no thoughts to spare for your own
predicament?”

“There was no predicament.”

“Oh, come, Miss Silence—you are not as dull as that! If you had lost
Mrs. Maquisten’s favour and your legacy, and stood in danger of being
sent packing—wouldn’t that constitute a predicament?”

“There was no predicament, because none of those things were true.”

“But if they had been true, there would have been a predicament?”

“Yes.”

“If they had been true, Miss Silence—what would you have done?”

“I don’t know—I never had to think about it.”

“Will you swear that you did not think about it—that no picture came up
in your mind of what you would do if you were turned out penniless? No,
I am forgetting—you had three pounds.” His voice rolled on the words.
“You had three pounds—you had no near relatives—and you were not
strong enough to get a job. Can you swear that you did not think of
these things?”

“Not after I came to Mrs. Maquisten’s.”

“Ah—you had thought about them, then! I thought so! When you were in
hospital perhaps?”

“Yes.”

“You had been troubled and anxious about the future?”

“Only whilst I was ill.”

“You were still not strong during that fortnight in November?”

“I was getting stronger.”

Sir Wilbury leaned towards her, his hands on the skirts of his gown, his
voice on a confidential note.

“Miss Silence—what would you have done if Mrs. Maquisten had turned you
out?”

“There was no question of her turning me out.”

“But if there had been, what would you have done?”

“I suppose I should have tried to get a job.”

He repeated her words in a measured manner.

“You would have tried to get a job.” And then quick and sharp, “Then you
were not going to marry Mr. Jefferson Stewart?”

She was tiring, and he had taken her by surprise. She had a sort of
black-out in which she lost the connection between the two questions.
She stood there, groping for it in her mind, her eyes on Sir Wilbury’s
face. She looked very young and very desolate. Jeff Stewart’s heart
contracted. His hands clenched. To see her like that—to be able to do
nothing—nothing at all——

As the thought went through his mind, gripping it like cramp, she said,
her voice still clear but a little shaken,

“This wasn’t a real case. This was something you were supposing.”

“I must ask you for an answer, Miss Silence.”

“I don’t quite know what you are asking me.”

Sir Wilbury raised his voice.

“I will repeat my question. I said, ‘Then you were not going to marry
Mr. Jefferson Stewart?’”

“It is very difficult to answer a question like that. He had asked me to
think about marrying him, and I was thinking about it. I can’t say what
I should have done in a case which didn’t arise.”

“Miss Silence, it is the contention of the Crown that that case did
arise—that you found yourself in imminent danger of being turned out of
Mrs. Maquisten’s house.”

“No.”

“And that in those circumstances you did not feel that you could count
upon marrying Mr. Stewart.”

“I knew that I could count upon him. I didn’t want to be hurried.”

The questions went on, and on, and on. Every word that had been spoken
on that Monday afternoon and evening, every movement, pulled out and
twisted. The time she had spent with Honoria Maquisten between Ellen’s
going out and Honor King’s coming in. . . .

“There was plenty of time for you to go into the bathroom, wasn’t
there?”

“I didn’t go into the bathroom.”

“There would have been plenty of time for you to go there, would there
not?”

“I don’t think so. Mrs. Maquisten was talking to me.”

“That is what you say. If she hadn’t been talking to you, there would
have been time for you to go into the bathroom?”

“Yes.”

“Time to dissolve those extra tablets and to add them to the
sleeping-draught?”

She said in a sudden clear voice,

“I didn’t do that.”

“There would have been time for you to do it?”

“No—Mrs. Maquisten was talking to me.”

He went on to the time when she had gone into the bathroom to fetch the
sleeping-draught. Like a picture interminably dragged out in slow motion
the scene was once again unrolled. Why had she done this, and that, and
the other? Why had she washed the glass? She was getting very tired
indeed. It came to her that if she hadn’t been telling the truth she
would have broken down long ago. It was only because she had nothing to
hide that she could go on answering him.

When he sat down at last and she turned to leave the box Hugo Vane
called her back.

“Just a moment, Miss Silence—I won’t keep you long. Mr. Jefferson
Stewart had made his position quite clear to you—his financial
position?”

Her mind went back to the walk when he had teased her about a fur coat
and a blonde who didn’t exist.

“He said he had a lot of money.”

“And his position as a suitor—he made that quite clear too?”

“Yes—he asked me to think about marrying him. I was thinking about it.”

“You were considering the question of marriage with Mr. Stewart. Were
you in any doubt as to the serious nature of his feelings for you?”

“No.”

“You just wanted a little more time to make up your mind?”

“Yes.”

“Thank you, Miss Silence.”

It was over. The court rose.




                                 XXXIX


Jeff Stewart watched the court reassemble. People coming in, settling
themselves, whispering. He felt as if he had known some of them for
years. The press sitting up and taking notice, because it was possible,
just barely possible, that they might get as far as the verdict before
the court rose again. It wasn’t very likely—speech for the Crown,
speech for the defence, summing-up by the judge, and time for the jury
to consider their verdict. To this Jeff could add his own knowledge that
there was to be another witness for the defence, and that the evidence
to be given by this witness might have a quite incalculable effect.

His eye moved on. Mark Aylwin, his face a heavy mask. Honor King, limp
and untidy. She had taken off her gloves and was fidgeting with them,
turning the fingers inside out and then poking them back again—black
kid gloves with shiny fingers. Nora next, in her grey fur, very pale.
She threw him an appealing glance as she sat down, and loosened the neck
of her coat as if she needed air. Ellen Bridling was a little behind
them. She kept her hands in their black thread gloves tightly folded in
her lap, and she kept her eyes down.

Ernest Hood came in and took his seat, passing in front of Ellen and
finding a place quite a number of seats beyond her. He looked exactly as
he had done on every other day of the trial. After him Dennis Harland,
walking with a stick, not looking at anyone. Then Mr. Mordaunt, with the
air of having had a good lunch and being very well pleased with himself.
He nodded to Jeff as he went by—a rollicking here we are on the top of
the world kind of nod.

Counsel were coming in now—Sir Wilbury and Mr. Lanthony; the tall, thin
Telfer; and Hugo Vane, boyish, rosy and smiling. The jury filed in,
rather the worse for wear.

Carey came into the dock with the wardress at her elbow.

Then the whole court stirred into life as the judge made his entrance.
The age-old formalities began. Through the silence which had hardly had
time to settle a voice said,

“Call Janet Gwent!”

Jeff looked along the line of faces for the face of Ernest Hood, and
found it pale beyond its usual pallor. Even as he looked he saw the
sweat come out upon the forehead and the mouth fall open. He glanced
quickly back along the row and saw Ellen Bridling, unmoved and unmoving,
black hands in a black lap, head poked forward under the shabby black
hat, eyes hooded. His look passed to Mark Aylwin. Out of the heavy mask
of the face the eyes watched Ernest Hood.

Miss Gwent came up into the witness-box and took the oath. Carey looked
at her and saw a big, shapeless woman with sandy hair worn very full
under a plain black hat which looked too small for her. There was a lot
of hair in front, and a lot more gathered up into a sort of lump behind.
There was a lot of Miss Gwent altogether. She must have been five foot
ten in her sensible low-heeled shoes, and she had the big bones which go
with sandy hair. You couldn’t say that she was stout, but she was an odd
shape, and her clothes, which had obviously been bought off a peg, did
nothing to help her out. She was voluminously and adequately covered,
but there it ended. As she raised her head after taking the oath, Carey
saw a large face with a fair, freckled skin and a wide, generous mouth,
eyes almost as pale and bright as forget-me-nots, very widely spaced and
set between sandy lashes and under thick sandy brows. They had a kind of
steady regard. They turned upon Hugo Vane as he addressed her.

“Miss Gwent, will you tell the court when you left England.”

Miss Gwent answered in rather a deep voice—a very pleasant voice.

“I left London on the evening of November 16th. I left England early
next morning.”

“Mention has been made in this case of a letter left by hand at 13
Maitland Square on the afternoon of November 16th. It was addressed to
the late Mrs. Maquisten. Can you tell us anything about this letter?”

“Yes—it was I who left it.”

There was a movement in the court.

“Did you write this letter, Miss Gwent?”

“No. It was written by my mother.”

“Is your mother alive?”

“No, she died on November 1st.”

“Can you tell us a little more about the letter, and why it was not
delivered until more than a fortnight after your mother’s death?”

“Yes—I will try. My mother was Mrs. Maquisten’s oldest friend. They
played together as children, they went to the same school, they married
in the same year, and they had kept up their friendship ever since. It
was very close and very intimate. At the end of October I was preparing
to go out to the Middle East in connection with plans for feeding the
children in one of the occupied countries. I am connected with a society
which handles these problems, and we had been asked to send a delegate.
On October 30th I came in late and found my mother very much troubled on
Mrs. Maquisten’s account. There was something my mother felt she ought
to know, but it was of a painful nature and she was afraid it would
upset her very much. Yet she felt it her duty to bring the matter to
Mrs. Maquisten’s knowledge. I said, ‘Well, I shouldn’t do anything in a
hurry.’ We talked for some time, and when I said goodnight I did not
know whether my mother had come to any decision. She did not speak of
the matter next day, and I went down into the country to spend the
week-end with friends. That was on the Saturday. Very early on Sunday
morning, November 1st, I was rung up and told that my mother had had a
seizure. I returned to town at once, but I was not in time to see her
alive. As I was to leave by air in a fortnight’s time I had a great deal
of business to get through. My mother’s affairs were in the hands of the
solicitor employed by Mrs. Maquisten—Mr. Aylwin, a life-long friend. I
told him that I should probably be away six months, and that I should
have to leave everything in his hands. There was a great deal to be
done. On the morning of Monday the sixteenth one of the maids came to me
with a letter addressed in my mother’s writing to Mrs. Maquisten——”

“When you say ‘addressed’, do you mean that it had Mrs. Maquisten’s name
and address upon it?”

“No, only her name.”

“Will you go on, Miss Gwent.”

“I asked the maid where she had found it, and she said it had just
fallen out of the blotter on my mother’s writing-table. She said my
mother had been writing there on the Saturday evening before she went to
bed. I realized then that my mother had taken her decision, and that one
of the very last things she had done was to write this letter to her old
friend. In the circumstances I felt that it must go.” She paused for a
moment, and then went on in a lower voice. “It may seem foolish, but I
felt reluctant to complete the address—I didn’t want to add anything to
what my mother had written. I was going to say goodbye to a friend not
too far away from Maitland Square, and I made up my mind to leave the
letter by hand. I didn’t want to see anyone—I really hadn’t time. I
just slipped the letter in through the slit and went on to see my
friend. I left London later in the afternoon, and took off from an
airport early next day.”

“When did you hear of Mrs. Maquisten’s death?”

“Yesterday afternoon, when I arrived in London.”

“Did you get no letters whilst you were away?”

“None that referred to Mrs. Maquisten’s death. The posts were very
irregular, and I was travelling about.”

“You were not away as long as you anticipated?”

“No. I was asked to come back and make a report.”

“What did you do when you learned the circumstances of Mrs. Maquisten’s
death?”

“I rang up Mr. Aylwin, my solicitor, at his private house—it was after
office hours—and told him that the letter which had been mentioned was
written by my mother. He gave me the name and address of the solicitor
for the defence and told me to get in touch with him.”

Hugo Vane altered his position. He had been leaning forward a little
upon his right foot. He withdrew it now and straightened up. The effect
produced by this quite simple and natural movement was that a period had
been reached, but that there was something still to come. His expression
for once was grave as he said,

“Miss Gwent—did you read your mother’s letter?”

Miss Janet Gwent looked scandalized.

“Of course not!”

Jeff Stewart was watching Ernest Hood. As Miss Gwent made her reply, he
saw him take a long, deep breath. It occurred to him that it might be a
breath of relief. If so, it came too soon. Hugo Vane was asking,

“Do you know what it was that Mrs. Gwent thought it her duty to report
to her old friend?”

“Yes—she discussed the matter with me very fully.”

Ernest Hood’s mouth fell a little open. It remained like that. He took
short breaths as if he had been running. Jeff looked along the row to
Ellen. She hadn’t moved. He passed from that row to where Honor King was
sitting. She was looking at the witness with an expression of vague
surprise. He felt a certain relief.

Hugo Vane was saying, “Your mother told you what she intended to say if
she decided that she must write to Mrs. Maquisten?”

“Yes.”

“Will you tell us what it was.”

Miss Gwent’s homely face took on an expression of distress. She said,

“I don’t like to—but I suppose I must.”

“I’m afraid I must ask you to do so.”

The distressed look persisted. She said,

“My mother was very fond of going to the cinema. She and I were at a
film together on October 29th. Whilst the picture was showing and the
lights were low two people came in and sat down in the seats immediately
in front of us. They behaved like lovers. It was impossible not to
notice the terms they were on.”

“Will you be a little more particular.”

The fair freckled skin took on some colour. Miss Gwent looked extremely
unhappy.

“They held hands—they sat with their arms round each other—she had her
head on his shoulder——”

“Did you recognise these people?”

“My mother and I both recognised them. It was very embarrassing.”

“Did they recognise you, or know that you were there?”

“Oh, no, they had no idea—it was dark when they came in. My mother and
I got up and went out very soon afterwards, when the picture we had come
to see was over. My mother did not say very much at the time. It was on
the following evening that I found her in a great state of distress.”

“You say that you recognised these two people. Will you name them.”

Miss Gwent shut her eyes for a moment. Then she opened them and said,

“They were Honor King and Mr. Hood.”

With a gasp Honor slipped sideways against her cousin. Nora put an arm
round her, looked to see if she was fainting, found that she was not,
and held her up. She even administered a pinch.

“For God’s sake, Honor!”

But Honor remained a dead weight against her shoulder.

Hugo Vane went on with his questions.

“You know both these people?”

“I have known Honor King all her life. I have known Mr. Hood fifteen
years.”

“Was it possible for you to have been mistaken as to the identity of the
man and woman who were occupying the seats in front of you?”

“No—they were between us and the lighted screen. Besides we could not
help hearing some of their conversation. He addressed her as Honor—she
called him Ernest.”

“There was no possibility of a mistake?”

“None whatever.”

“You feel able to swear that it was Ernest Hood and Honor King you saw
on this occasion?”

“I do.”

“Now, Miss Gwent, passing on to the conversation you had with your
mother on the evening of the following day—did she acquaint you with
her reasons for thinking that she ought to let Mrs. Maquisten know of
the relations between Mr. Hood and Miss King?”

“Yes. I said that I thought it was their own affair, and she was very
much disturbed and said no, it was a great breach of trust on Mr. Hood’s
part, as he owed everything to Mrs. Maquisten and she certainly had no
idea that he was making love to her niece.”

The judge leaned forward and said,

“Mr. Vane—is this pertinent?”

Hugo Vane turned with the expression of a respectful schoolboy
addressing the headmaster.

“I submit that it is, m’lud. I believe that this witness is able to
throw an important light upon the relations between two of the witnesses
for the Crown, and upon the evidence which they have given in this
court.”

“Are you attacking the credit of these witnesses, Mr. Vane?”

“Yes, m’lud. I propose to prove that not only did an undisclosed and
hitherto unsuspected relationship exist between two of the Crown’s
witnesses, but that they also had a very strong motive for desiring Mrs.
Maquisten’s death before she could sign a new will.”

A murmur ran through the court—sound without words, like the rustle
among leaves.

“You may proceed, Mr. Vane.”

The judge sat back again. Hugo Vane turned to his witness.

“What reason did she give you for considering that Mr. Hood’s conduct
was a breach of trust?”

Miss Gwent again closed her eyes.

“She told me that Mrs. Maquisten had befriended Mr. Hood’s mother—that
she had given him his education and introduced him into Mr. Aylwin’s
office. She said that the whole affair had been kept a profound secret
even from Mr. Aylwin, but she now felt that Mrs. Maquisten was being
imposed upon, and that someone besides herself should know the facts.”

“Did Mrs. Gwent impart these facts to you?”

“Yes.”

“Did she acquaint you with Mr. Hood’s parentage?”

“Yes.”

“What did she tell you?”

Miss Gwent paused, shut her eyes, took a long breath, and said,

“She told me that he was Ellen Bridling’s son.”

All over the court people stirred, moved, rustled. As if in answer to
her name, Ellen got to her feet and began to push her way along the row
in the direction of the door through which she had come in. Ernest Hood
sat where he was, his pale face glistening, his eyes half hidden by the
drooping lids. In that moment a likeness to Ellen stood out plain.

Honor King gripped Nora by the arm and sat up straight. Her eyes looked
wildly round, and on a gasping breath she could be heard to say,

“Oh, no—no—no—no—_no_!”

To Carey in the dock it seemed as if everything had stopped. Ellen and
Ernest Hood—mother and son! Not strangers with no possible common
motive for accusing her, but so intimately linked that Honor’s fifty
thousand pounds must be of equal interest to them both. Every avenue of
thought was blocked by this one tremendous fact. Afterwards she knew
that a birth certificate was put in as evidence, but at the time she did
not know what was happening around her. It was not faintness but
withdrawal. The outside things went by.

When she came back to them again, Hugo Vane was addressing the jury.




                                   XL


Carey did not really take it in. She listened to the words, but most of
the time she didn’t really take them in. The terrible tension and strain
of all these endless weeks had suddenly begun to relax. She felt a
loosening and a slackening of her whole being. She hadn’t to hold on any
more—she could let go. Phrases, sentences, whole passages, passed into
her consciousness and floated there a little vaguely.

“I submit that the Crown has completely failed to make out any case at
all against Miss Silence. If you believe the evidence just given by Miss
Gwent, an entirely disinterested witness, it will be plain to you that
the person who was to be cut out of Mrs. Maquisten’s will was not Carey
Silence but Honor King. Then what happens to the two witnesses who stood
in this box only a day or two ago and were so positive that Mrs.
Maquisten had indicated Carey Silence as the person who had deceived
her, and whom she intended to disinherit? After hearing Miss Gwent’s
evidence, do you think that Ellen Bridling and Ernest Hood were honestly
mistaken, or does it appear that they had a motive—may I go so far as
to say a very strong motive—for putting this construction upon Mrs.
Maquisten’s words, or even perhaps for putting the words into her mouth?
You will use your own judgment about this, but you will remember that
the Crown has relied upon their evidence to prove that Carey Silence had
a motive for wishing Mrs. Maquisten dead. But if you believe Miss
Gwent—and I do not see how you can disbelieve her—it was not Carey
Silence who had this motive at all. I do not accuse Miss King, but it
was she who was to be cut out of Mrs. Maquisten’s will, and it is Ernest
Hood, the man who was making love to her behind her aunt’s back, and
Ernest Hood’s unacknowledged mother Ellen Bridling, who stood here to
accuse Miss Silence. It will at once be evident to you that these two
persons had the strongest possible motive for preserving Honor King’s
inheritance. It is not for me to suggest what may have taken place at
the interview between Mrs. Maquisten and Ernest Hood. You will remember,
however, that she had just received a letter in which her old friend
Mrs. Gwent informed her of the relations between Hood and her niece Miss
King. Recollecting all she had done for him, is it too much to suppose
that she threw his betrayal in his face and informed him of her
intention to make a new will under which Miss King would not receive a
penny? It is at least significant that it was during the time occupied
by this interview that she secured herself against an eavesdropper by
sending Nurse Brayle out of the house. What happened after this is a
matter for conjecture, but one cannot help remembering that Ellen
Bridling’s room was only the width of the passage away from the one in
which this interview was taking place. It is possible that there was an
eavesdropper after all. A number of the witnesses have described Mrs.
Maquisten’s voice as loud and strong. It is not for me to say whether
the mother and son met when the interview was over. It is, however,
significant that Ellen Bridling’s first admitted contact with her
mistress should not have taken place until after seven o’clock. There
would therefore have been plenty of time for them to have met. But that
is not my affair. What it is my duty to lay before you is just this—and
you will of course have seen it for yourselves—since it was not Carey
Silence who had deceived Mrs. Maquisten, and since it was not Carey
Silence who was about to be disinherited, she had no possible motive for
contriving the death of a kind and affectionate relative, and the whole
case for the Crown collapses. . . .”

In the withdrawn places of her mind Carey had an odd childish picture of
a house of cards coming fluttering down—kings and queens with their
crowns—knaves, like policemen with truncheons—diamonds, clubs, hearts,
and spades. . . . Presently Hugo Vane’s voice came through
again—talking about Honor King coming into the bedroom just before
Cousin Honoria asked for and took the sleeping-draught——

“Here is one of the Crown witnesses most truthfully testifying to Mrs.
Maquisten’s affectionate behaviour to the girl who you have been asked
to believe was at that time the object of her particular resentment and
anger. The prosecution’s own witness has told you that Mrs. Maquisten
was holding Miss Silence by the hand and looking at her with affection.
You have heard Miss Silence’s account of this scene. Does it not ring
true? Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, doesn’t all her evidence ring
true? She is a young girl, and she is not in very strong health. I won’t
attempt to work upon your sensibilities by reminding you that her health
has been impaired by enemy action. I am sure that it is not necessary
for me to do so. I only mention it in order to say this—Do you think it
is possible that this fragile girl should have sustained the very able
and searching cross-examination of my learned friend without
contradicting herself or breaking down at any point if she had been
relying on anything except her complete innocence and the simple honest
truth?”

Something in Carey woke up. She thought, “Yes, that’s true—I couldn’t
have stood up to him if I hadn’t been telling the truth.”

He went on speaking, but not for very long. She heard him without taking
hold of what he said.

She did not really listen to Sir Wilbury Fossett, who made one of the
shortest speeches of his career. Afterwards she gathered that he had
contrived to say as little as possible. A profile, a voice, and a manner
all in the grand style are useful properties. He used them to the full
in what amounted to a strategic retirement, and resumed his seat with
dignity.

The judge summed up, using words which were now so familiar that they
were like an echo already many times repeated. In his balanced phrases
the case went by again. In the end it came down to what Hugo Vane had
said—“If you believe the evidence of Miss Gwent, the motive alleged by
the Crown does not exist.”

The horse-hair wig rising in formal waves above the puckered face, the
red robes, the dry incisive voice, the words it used, were all part of
the old majestic processes of the law which had brought Carey Silence
here to stand her trial, and was now giving her over to be weighed in a
balance by the twelve tired people in the jury box.

“Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, you will now retire and consider your
verdict.”

Carey heard that, and made ready to get to her feet. She would have to
go down these steps, and presently she would have to come up them again.
She wondered how long it would take the jury to say whether they thought
she was guilty or not. Sometimes a jury was out for hours. She hoped
that they would not be very long.

And then quite suddenly she saw that they were not going out. The
foreman was on his feet, and he was addressing the judge.

“My lord, we do not need to retire. We are agreed upon our verdict. We
find the prisoner not guilty.”

The wardress had taken Carey’s arm and pulled her up. She stood there as
white as linen and saw the court and all the people crowded there as if
she were looking at them through water. Everything swam, and wavered,
and floated. The scarlet of the judge’s robes was like a spreading
stain. She heard him say,

“Is that the verdict of you all?”

But she never heard what the foreman said in reply, because a blackness
came down between her and the crowded court.

The case was over.




                                  XLI


There was a whispering going on. She heard the voices before she could
distinguish the words. She opened her eyes for a moment and shut them
again. Someone let go of her wrist and got up. A strange voice said,
“It’s all right—just let her lie still for a bit.” Then the other two
voices began again, Nora’s voice and Jeff’s.

“After all, it’s partly her own house—it was left between the four of
us. And Den won’t be there—he’s going to his club. She’d much better
come home—_really_.”

Jeff said, “I don’t know——”

Carey opened her eyes. She was lying on the floor. Someone had taken her
hat off and put a newspaper under her head. She could feel it rustle
when she moved. Nora was sitting back on her heels on one side of her,
all grey and furry like a kitten. Jeff was kneeling on the other side
holding her left hand. She had the feeling that he was holding it so
tight that it might be difficult ever to get it back. She said a little
vaguely,

“Are you talking about me?”

Nora’s face crinkled up as if she was going to cry. She caught Carey’s
other hand and squeezed it.

“You will come home with me, won’t you? Anyhow it’s partly your house.
You don’t want to go to a beastly hotel, do you? It would be _grim_.”

The floor was frightfully hard. Carey pulled on the hands that were
holding hers and sat up. She felt a little swimmy but all right. She
looked at Nora and said,

“Ellen——”

Nora’s face screwed up again, but in a different way. The kitten might
have been going to scratch or spit.

“I always knew she was a poison-toad, but not as bad as this. I don’t
know whether the police have arrested her or not, but they’ve got her,
and as far as we are concerned they can keep her. She doesn’t set foot
in the house again. And—and Den is going to his club—you won’t have to
see him.”

“I don’t mind seeing him,” said Carey.

Jeff Stewart let go of the hand he was holding. Nora pulled at the other
one.

“Then you’ll come home with me?”

It was Jeff who said quite bluntly, “What about Honor?”

He got a sort of lightning flash from Nora’s very bright brown eyes.

“I tell you she didn’t know a thing. She’s a gump and a poor fish, but
she didn’t poison Aunt Honoria, or know that anyone else was going to. I
think even the police will have the sense to see that, but they’ve taken
her off to ask her a lot of questions. Mr. Aylwin’s gone with her so
that I could come to Carey. He said they might detain her, but he
thought they’d probably let her come home. But if you think she’d try
and do anything to Carey you’re a worse gump than she is. It’s just
silly!”

“Is it?” His tone was dry.

“Yes, it is! Look here, Jeff, you can’t take Carey to an hotel. She’s
got to come home to her family, or what’s it going to look like? You’ve
got to think about that. You can come too if you like—there’s lots of
room. And if Carey doesn’t mind meeting Den, I think he’d better stay
too, because this is where the family wants to look solid.”

If there was anyone in the world Jeff Stewart did not at that moment
want to meet, it was Dennis Harland, but he was afflicted with a strong
vein of common sense. After opening his mouth to say something quite
different he felt himself constrained to observe,

“Well, I expect you’re right.”

Nora produced two dimples and rather an attractive gurgle.

“I’m always right, darling.” Then, very briskly to Carey, “Mr. Vane and
Mr. Mordaunt are waiting to see you, so I expect you’d better get up off
the floor.”




                                  XLII


Carey went to bed in her old room and slept as if she would never wake
again. It was afternoon, and late afternoon at that, before she came
down and opened the study door. She had met no one on the stairs, but
she made sure of finding somebody in the study. There was only one
person there, and it was Dennis Harland. Carey stood with her hand on
the door for a moment, then she came in and shut it behind her. After
all, she had to meet Dennis sometime. She couldn’t just go on
remembering that the last thing he had said to her was “Why did you do
it, Carey?”

He had his back to the door, so that he had time to say “Is that you,
Nora?” before she crossed his line of vision.

She said “No” in a quiet voice and took the chair on the other side of
the hearth. Now they were sitting where they had sat on the first
evening, a long, long time ago. She was even wearing the same dress, and
the brooch that had been Julia’s which Honoria Maquisten had given her
to wear with it. Julia had been dead for fifty years, but the big pale
sapphire with its ring of grey rose-diamonds hadn’t changed. The stuff
of her dress was as soft and blue as it had been before she stood her
trial for murder. Things that mattered more than a stone and a frock had
perished—things which ought to have endured, but once they were gone
you couldn’t bring them back again. She met Dennis Harland’s eyes and
said,

“Why did you think I did it?”

He looked away.

“It’s over—better let it go.”

Carey shook her head.

“No—I want to know—I’ve got to know.”

He gave the old slight shrug of the shoulder which she remembered.

“I don’t like post-mortems myself—women love them. Have it your own
way. I thought it was you because as far as I could make out it was a
choice between you and me, and I knew it wasn’t me. And Ellen said she
saw you in the bathroom.”

Carey drew a quick breath.

“When?”

“After she left you in the bedroom with Aunt Honoria. She went along the
passage to the landing and stood there waiting for Honor to come down.
The bathroom door was in sight, and she said you opened it and looked
out.”

Carey said scornfully, “She didn’t say that at the trial.”

“She promised she wouldn’t unless she was asked point-blank.”

“It wasn’t true. Why did you make her promise?”

“Because it would have hanged you.”

“Am I supposed to thank you for that?”

“I don’t think you’ve got very much to thank me for.”

Carey said, “Nor do I.”

All at once he was leaning forward, his hands between his knees.

“Do you suppose I wanted to think it was you? Do you suppose I haven’t
been through hell thinking it? What do you suppose it was like? I’d
loved her all my life, and I was in love with you, and I thought you had
killed her to get yourself out of a jam. What did you expect me to do?
Ellen swore it was you. I shut her mouth on the one thing which would
certainly have hanged you.”

Carey looked at him curiously.

“Why should I look out into the passage?”

An eyebrow rose.

“To see if anyone was coming of course. You had to know if there was
time for you to add the extra dope.”

“I see. And you never thought that the person who had all the time in
the world to dope that draught was Ellen herself?”

Without quite knowing how it had happened, their tongues were free. The
old quick give-and-take was there again. He said,

“No, I didn’t—nobody did. Stupid of us perhaps—damned stupid if you
like—but, you see, we couldn’t any of us get past the positive fact
that she did love Aunt Honoria.”

Carey said soberly, “She killed her.”

“Because she loved somebody else better. But then, you see, we didn’t
know about that. Ernest was just Aylwin’s clerk sucking up to
Honor—something to make a family joke of. I expect Ellen heard us. She
didn’t love us much before, and she must have fairly hated us all before
she was through. And I think that in a sort of crazy way the whole of
that hatred got focussed on you. Of course she was as jealous as fury
about Aunt Honoria falling for you the way she did.”

Carey gave a grave little nod.

“Why did she let you shut her mouth? She’d made up that story about my
looking out into the passage—she did make it up, you know. I never went
near the bathroom. Well, when she’d got that all made up and ready, why
did she let you stop her? Why didn’t she come out with it at the trial?”

“I imagine because Ernest told her not to. He knows his stuff all right.
I’ve thought a lot about their evidence, and I believe they stuck very
closely to the truth. That’s what made it so dangerous. I believe all
those conversations with Aunt Honoria were absolutely true—I don’t
think either of them could have invented anything so like the way she
talked. But all that about the rocket and the stick and ‘those that go
up quick can come down quick’—well it wasn’t meant for you, it was
meant for Ernest. So I think he wouldn’t let Ellen embark on anything
which she had made up. There were to be no unnecessary lies. I am sure
she was very carefully coached. Think back over their evidence. They
were both careful not to swear that Aunt Honoria had mentioned you by
name. I can see Ernest there. Left to herself, Ellen would have gone the
whole hog, but Ernest is a cautious soul. He thinks Miss Gwent is out of
the way for six months, and that means that the trial will be over and
done with and out of mind before she gets to hear about it. Everyone
knows what mails to the Middle East have been like, and she was going to
be moving about. Besides, who was going to write? None of her own
friends had ever heard of Aunt Honoria. If by any chance Mr. Aylwin were
to write, nothing would be easier than for Ernest to suppress the
letter. By the time Miss Gwent got back the whole thing would have been
past history. But just in case it wasn’t past enough and Miss Gwent ever
came out with why that letter must have been one her mother wrote—well,
he and Ellen would still be quite all right even if Miss Gwent knew that
it was Honor who was going to be cut out of the will. They thought Aunt
Honoria was talking about you—they were honestly convinced that she
was—but of course she hadn’t mentioned your name, and if they had made
a mistake it was very regrettable, but they could only say what they
thought at the time. What they didn’t know was that Aunt Honoria had
told Mrs. Gwent all about Ellen having a baby about thirty-five years
before, and that Mrs. Gwent had passed the information on to her
daughter. Miss Gwent even knew where to send Mordaunt for the
birth-certificate. Aunt Honoria apparently wouldn’t stand for any
hankypanky about the registration. He’s down as Ernest Hood Bridling all
right, but he was brought up as Ernest Hood.”

Carey, said quick and low,

“It’s horrible.”

An eyebrow jerked.

“Middling,” he said drily. “I gather the police are having a headache
over getting enough evidence to run him in. They’ve arrested Ellen, but
so far there isn’t a shred of evidence that she didn’t do it off her own
bat just to save Honor’s fifty thousand for her darling son.”

“Do you—think—they planned it—between them?”

“Don’t you? Remember Ellen’s door just opposite Aunt Honoria’s and
nearly always open. She knew there was an unholy row brewing because
everyone in the house knew that, and she’d know that Ernest had been
sent for, because Molly had orders to bring him up as soon as he came.
Don’t you think she’d have been waiting to have a word with him when he
came out?”

“Do you think they planned it then?”

“No, I don’t. It would have been too dangerous. I don’t believe he’d
have risked it. I think he told her to meet him somewhere when he got
away from the office, which he did at half past five. I checked up on
that myself because I wanted to be sure that he couldn’t have met Honor,
and that was all right. He was back in the office before she left her
parcels place, and she was back here before he left the office—they
couldn’t have met. But Ellen went out ‘to the post’ at twenty past five,
and I don’t mind betting that ‘the post’ was Ernest, and that she got
her instructions then—she simply hadn’t got the brains to work it out
for herself. But she has got the most phenomenal memory. She’ll repeat a
long conversation and get it word-perfect, or tell some interminable
story a dozen times and never vary a syllable. I’ve heard her doing it
since I was a child.” He stopped dead, and then said slowly and
painfully, “That’s why I believed her evidence, Carey.”

The tears stung in Carey’s eyes. She bit her lip and nodded.

He went on.

“I think he told her just what she was to do. Look what a careful alibi
was provided for Honor. If she had been even slightly under suspicion it
would have been too dangerous for Ernest to marry her. She had to be
kept absolutely clear, and it was very cleverly and plausibly done.”

Carey said suddenly.

“But Aunt Honoria wasn’t angry with Ellen. If she knew that Ernest had
been making love to Honor and she was furious with them, then why wasn’t
she furious with Ellen too?”

Dennis looked grim.

“That’s the nastiest part of it, my dear. There’s only one way of
accounting for it. Ellen must have absolutely convinced Aunt Honoria
that she hadn’t known anything about what was going on, and that she was
just as much shocked and horrified as she was herself. And once she was
convinced of that, don’t you see what a strong position Ellen was in?
She knew from previous experience that Aunt Honoria would be given a
sleeping-draught—she always had one after an upset, and this was a bad
one. She knew that it was Magda’s evening off, and she would know just
how to make sure that Aunt Honoria would insist on Magda going out. A
suggestion of eavesdropping would have done it all right, and after that
everything was easy. She came away and left you alone with Aunt Honoria
after dinner so as to provide time for you to go into the bathroom and
tamper with the draught, and if Honor or I had come along too soon she
would have delayed us on the landing. It’s all so beautifully clear now
that one has the key.” His tone was very bitter as he ended.

Carey looked at him.

“Dennis—don’t mind so much.” She saw his face change, and went on
quickly, “Please—_please_ don’t! Let’s just wipe it all out and be
friends again.”

“Can we?”

“I don’t see why we can’t.”

“Don’t you, darling?” It was the old light tone, but the bitterness ran
underneath.

Carey said, “No, I don’t. You see, I never really had any family before,
and it wasn’t easy to have friends of my own age when I was at the
Andrews’. He was a darling, and she was very kind to me, only she took
quirks about things and nearly everything shocked her.”

“I can’t imagine how you stood it.”

“Oh, she isn’t as bad as she sounds. She was having an aggravated attack
of conscience in the witness-box—she gets them sometimes. But he was a
lamb, and I met a lot of interesting people—only not young. And then I
came here, and you were all so nice to me. And Jeff wanted me to say I
would marry him, but I didn’t want to be rushed. I wanted to play about
a bit and not be in a hurry, and you were the very nicest playfellow.”

“No more than that?”

“Now, Den, you know perfectly well you didn’t want to be anything more.”

“Didn’t I?”

“No, you didn’t,” said Carey firmly. “Nor did I.”

He looked right into her eyes for a moment, his own very bright and
rather cynical. Then he burst out laughing.

“Are you refusing me, darling?”

Carey’s colour rose.

“I don’t think there was anything to refuse.”

“That wouldn’t matter, would it? Did you never hear of Jenny Baxter, who
refused the man before he axed her?”

“Den, do be good! We can’t go on playing, but I want to be friends.”

His mouth twisted.

“Do you want to be a sister to me, darling?”

She laughed, but her eyes were full of tears.

“I wouldn’t mind. I want to be friends, like you are with Nora. You see,
I know just what it’s been like for you.”

“Do you? I wonder. I hope you don’t.”

Carey went on steadily.

“You loved Cousin Honoria, and you were getting to be just a little bit
in love with me. Then you thought I’d killed her, and you were afraid
I’d make you forget what she’d done for you and what you felt about her,
so you rather piled everything up against me to make yourself do what
you thought you ought to do, and the more it hurt, the more you had to
do it. That’s true—isn’t it?”

He looked at her for one direct moment and said, “Yes.” Then he got up,
reached for the cigarette-case lying open on the mantelpiece, and busied
himself with lighting a cigarette. When he had got it going he said over
his shoulder,

“Going to marry Jeff?”

Carey didn’t answer, because the door opened suddenly and Nora and Jeff
came in.




                                 XLIII


It appeared that they had met on the doorstep, and that they each had
news. Nora got hers out first, throwing off her coat, her cap, her
gloves, and talking all the time.

“I went to try and see Honor, and I got Chief Inspector McGillivray. He
says they’ve just about finished with her for the moment and she can
come home. They’ve asked her millions of questions, and I expect she’ll
be in a flat spin, but thank goodness they don’t seem to be going to
arrest her. I told McGillivray that he ought to have more brains than to
imagine that Honor would do anything but sit down and moan if she
thought she was going to be cut out of a will, and he said, ‘I’m
inclined to agree with ye’. Very growly and Scotch, but with rather a
twinkle in the eye. So I suppose she’ll be back any moment now—only
what we’re going to do with her, I don’t know.”

Dennis gave her his charming smile.

“She will continue to be our little ray of sunshine, darling. It’s a
glad prospect. Why didn’t you bring her with you?”

“McGillivray said I’d better not. He said she was hysterical, and they’d
send her back with a policewoman in a taxi. He patted my shoulder and
told me to run along and put a hot-water bottle in her bed. He’s rather
a pet.”

The door opened again and Molly came in with the tea. As she set down
the tray, Nora said easily,

“Miss Honor will be back any time now. You’d better put two hot-water
bottles in her bed please, Molly.”

Molly made eyes like saucers.

“Miss Honor?”

Nora gave her casual laugh.

“Yes. And see the water’s boiling—there’s an angel.”

Molly departed, obviously bursting with curiosity. Nora began to pour
out.

“Jeff’s been seeing Mark Aylwin. Oh—Mrs. Deeping’s made us
peanut-butter toast! Carey, that’s for you. We have to drag it out of
her by inches—or don’t I mean that? Anyhow Jeff really has got
news—they’ve arrested Ernest. Go on, Jeff, tell us about it! Carey,
here’s your tea and the butteriest bit of toast.”

Jeff gave her the cup and then propped himself against the mantelpiece
on her side of the hearth. He said,

“Well, I went to see Mr. Aylwin for reasons of my own, and rather to my
surprise he came across and told me things. Hood was arrested about an
hour ago.”

Nora exclaimed, “But McGillivray never told me! I call that low!”

“The police don’t tell everything they know. I was rather surprised that
Aylwin did, but I thought he wanted to be friendly, and it will all be
in the papers when Hood comes up before the magistrates. It seems one of
Aylwin’s clerks, an old fellow called Sharp, came to him this morning
and said that after hearing Miss Gwent’s evidence there was something he
thought Aylwin ought to know. He said he hadn’t thought of it as
important until yesterday when he was in court for the first time, heard
Miss Gwent, and saw Ellen. He said he remembered everything that
happened on November 16th, both because of the case and because of
Aylwin being away. He remembered Hood being sent for by Mrs. Maquisten.
He says he got back to the office again at a little after half past four
and quit just before half past five, leaving Sharp to close up. Just
after he had gone Sharp remembered something he had meant to ask Hood.
He locked up and hurried after him. Well, he saw him meet Ellen—that is
to say he saw him meet a woman whom he identified yesterday as Ellen
Bridling. As they were in very deep conversation, he didn’t like to
interrupt them and sheered off without being seen. But before he did so
he had come up pretty close. There was a crowd on the pavement. The
shops along there all close at half past five, and the side-walks were
full of people going home. He was right up behind Hood before it got
home on him that something of the nature of a private conversation was
going on. People do talk like that in a crowd—I’ve done it myself.
Well, he was just going to touch Hood on the arm and ask whatever it was
he had run after him to ask, when he heard him say, ‘Look here, there’s
nothing to worry about—I’ve got it all planned. You’ve just got to do
exactly what I tell you and everything will be quite all right.’ When
Sharp heard that he thought he’d better not butt in. He edged away out
of the crowd and down a side street. He said he never thought about any
of it again until he heard Miss Gwent’s evidence yesterday and
recognized Ellen Bridling in court. Then it came back to him, and the
more he thought about it, the less he felt he could keep it to himself.
He didn’t sleep all night, and by the time Aylwin went out for lunch
he’d got to the point where he followed him and made a clean breast of
it. Aylwin took him off to Scotland Yard, and they’ve collected Hood.”

Carey had the giddy feeling of things sliding past her, sliding away.
She shut her eyes and leaned back against the cushions of her chair.
There were two cushions, one blue and one green. She put her head
against the blue cushion and waited for the giddy feeling to pass. A
hand came down and took away the cup and plate which had slid together
in her lap. She thought it was Jeff Stewart’s hand. She looked through
her lashes, and was aware of him sitting on the arm of her chair,
screening her from the others. Dennis had moved round to the other side
of the table. There was so much of Jeff that he made a very adequate
screen. She thought, “It’s nice of him—and nice not to make a fuss.”

He put down the plate and cup and went on talking. They all talked,
except Carey.

And then Molly opened the door and said, “Please, ma’am, Miss Honor’s
here,” and Nora jumped up and ran out, dragging Dennis with her. Carey
heard a tempestuous “I don’t care what you say, Den! You’ve _got_ to
come—you’ve got to be nice to her for once in your life!”

They went out. The door banged.

Jeff turned round and took hold of Carey’s hands.

“You’re cold,” he said.

His hands were very warm and strong. Carey opened her eyes and smiled.

“I’m all right, Jeff. It was just a little like being in a
train—everything going past—rather quick——”

“Let it go, honey.”

“You haven’t called me that for a long time.”

“Are you going to let me? You used to say, ‘No’.”

“Did I? It’s such a long time ago.”

“It doesn’t matter how long it is as far as I’m concerned. You know
that.”

“Yes—you said so in court. It was a dreadfully public proposal, Jeff.”

Still holding her hands, he said,

“You didn’t give me any answer either then or the first time. Do I get
one now?”

Her lashes came down. She said haltingly,

“I—don’t know, Jeff. I don’t think—I—ought to.”

“Why?”

“You’ve been so good. I don’t know what I’d have done without you——”
Her voice went away into a murmur.

The very strong hands which were holding hers tightened painfully.

“If you’re thinking of having me out of gratitude, honey, I’m not taking
any.”

Her eyes opened with a startled expression.

“I didn’t say anything about having you.”

“Won’t you?”

She hadn’t known that his voice could be so melting soft. It made her
breath catch and her words stumble.

“You oughtn’t—to marry—someone—who’s been mixed up—in a murder.”

“We’ve both been mixed up in it. Now we’re in the clear again. I don’t
propose we shall spend our lives raking over the garbage.”

“Other people will.”

He laughed.

“They’ll soon stop. Of course if you’re going to get down on your hands
and knees and rake too, you can spoil your life and my life, but it
would be a pretty foolish thing to do. We’ve got a good life coming.”

Carey began to feel, “Yes, we have,” but what she said was,

“Have we?”

He let go of her, laying her hands down very gently in her lap. Then he
said soberly,

“If you want it that way. Do you?”

The hands had been warm. Now they began to feel cold again. When Carey
lifted them they shook a little. They went out towards him with a
groping movement, but he did not touch them. Instead he put his arms
right round her and said,

“Going to take me, honey?”

Carey said, “Yes.”

                                