When Dorinda Brown came into the Heather Club at four o’clock on January
8th she hadn’t the slightest idea that she had just made the first step
upon a road which was going to take her into some curious places. If
anyone had told her so, she would have laughed. She laughed easily, to
be sure, with a backward tilt of the head, eyes crinkling at the
corners, and a generous display of excellent white teeth. Anyone less
good-tempered than Dorinda might have been annoyed with Justin Leigh’s
remark that when she was really amused he could count them. Dorinda had
only laughed again and said, “Well, they’re all there.”

The Heather Club wasn’t really a club. Penny plain it was a
boarding-house, and twopence coloured it was a private hotel. Miss
Donaldson who presided over it felt that she was combining patriotism
and refinement by calling it a club and displaying a large bowl of
Scottish heather in the little dark hall. It was, perhaps, better not to
drag in the word private, since privacy was one of the things which the
Club was quite unable to offer. It was a big house in a locality which
had come down in the world, and its large rooms had been cut up so small
that they resembled slices from a once ample joint, each slice just wide
enough to take a narrow bed and leave room for the occupant to get in
and out. Some of the slices shared a window, others had a narrow slit
which let in no air when it was hot and poured an icy draught down the
back of your neck when it was cold. Dorinda had a slice with a slit.

As she passed through the hall she encountered Miss Donaldson, tall,
bony, and austere of feature. The austerity was all in the shop window.
It daunted newcomers, but took nobody in for long. Behind that
formidable manner, that tight hair, those rugged eyebrows, there lived a
simple, genial creature who asked no more of life than to be able to pay
her way.

“Oh, Miss Donaldson,” said Dorinda—“I’ve got it!”

“The job you were inquiring after?”

Twenty years in London had done nothing to deprive Euphemia Donaldson of
her Scottish tongue.

Dorinda nodded.

“I’ve got it!”

“It wouldn’t be in Scotland?”

Dorinda shook her head.

There was a wistful gleam in Miss Donaldson’s eye.

“I was thinking if you’d relatives there, it would be nice——”

Dorinda shook her head again.

“But I haven’t.”

Miss Donaldson looked disappointed.

“That’s strange too, and you so young. Now take me—it’s more than
twenty years since I came south, and I’ve five-and-thirty relations in
Scotland—counting third and fourth cousins.” The r’s were like a
drum-roll.

Dorinda laughed.

“I wasn’t counting cousins.”

“Ah, your mother was English, you were telling me—that would account
for it. Now that Mr. Leigh that was calling for you once or twice, he’d
be on your mother’s side?”

“A long way off,” said Dorinda. “You know—the sort that’s a cousin if
you want them to be, and not a relation at all if you don’t.”

Miss Donaldson commented on this with the old Scottish word “Imphm”,
which can mean almost anything. In this case it implied that she knew
what Dorinda meant and disapproved of it, adding with a fresh roll of
drums,

“Relations can be awful disagreeable, but blood’s thicker than water and
they’ll stand by you at a pinch.”

Dorinda felt that honour was now satisfied. She smiled her wide,
attractive smile and moved on.

“I was just going to telephone.”

Miss Donaldson said, “Imphm”, and withdrew into the dismal hole which
she called her office.

Dorinda bounded into the telephone-box and shut the door. This was the
one place in the house where you could talk without being overheard. In
the slice-like cubicles you could hear every sound made by every other
person within the four walls of what had once been a very fine room. In
the hall, in the passages, in the dining-room, in the lounge, there were
always people coming and going and listening—especially listening. Some
of the old ladies had no other interest in life. They put together all
the things they heard and exchanged them as they sat in a solid bank
round the fire in the evenings. Even if you had a bath, they could hear
the water run in, and gurgle out again, so they knew at once if anyone
was taking more than her fair share. Tongues had become very sharp over
Judith Crane who had actually had two baths a day, but fortunately she
had left at the end of a week.

The telephone-box really was sound-proof. It always amused Dorinda to
see people talking behind the glass, opening and shutting their mouths
like fishes in an aquarium, but when you were shut up inside it yourself
it felt rather nice, as if you were in a private world of your own. And
not alone there, because you had only to magic with the dial and you
could have anyone you liked to share it with you—well, anyone in
reason.

Dorinda flicked the dial, put her pennies in, and waited. If anyone had
been passing they might have thought she made a pleasant picture. There
are so many sad faces, so many tired, lined, cross, difficult, irritable
faces that it is pleasant to see a cheerful one. Dorinda nearly always
looked cheerful. Even on her solitary visit to a dentist, when she had
secretly been a good deal daunted by the unknown and rather terrifying
apparatus which appeared to be lying in wait for her, she had contrived
to smile. She went through life smiling, sometimes resolutely, but for
the most part in a pleasantly spontaneous manner, and when she smiled
her eyes smiled too.

They had a way of shining and looking golden when she was pleased or
feeling fond of anyone. Her hair was golden brown and very thick. Justin
Leigh once said that it was walnut-coloured. He explained kindly, and a
little condescendingly, that he didn’t mean the colour of the nut but of
the polished wood. Dorinda, who was ten years old at the time, went and
stood for a long time in front of the walnut bureau in the drawing-room
trying to make up her mind whether Justin meant that he liked her hair.
She held her plait against the wood and gazed at it. The hair certainly
had the same colours in it as the wood, and when it was well brushed it
shone in very much the same way. After that she made a point of brushing
it a great deal. But she didn’t like the plait, because all the other
girls at school had short hair. So in a good-tempered but perfectly
determined manner she took her Aunt Mary’s cutting-out scissors and
removed it. She had smiled equably through the painful family scene
which followed, secure in the fact that they couldn’t put it back. She
had a bright rosy colour, two dimples, and a wide, generous mouth which
was really quite red enough to do without lipstick. For the rest, she
was five-foot-five in her stocking feet, and she had the kind of figure
which has agreeable curves without being fat.

The telephone buzzed and Justin Leigh said, “Hullo!” in the cultured and
rather _blasé_ manner in which it was his habit to address telephones.

“It’s me,” said Dorinda, throwing grammar to the winds.

“_I._”

“No, _me_. Listen—I’ve got a job.”

“Oh? What is it?”

He sounded bored. But it was impossible for Dorinda to believe that
anyone could really be bored when she herself was feeling all lit-up and
excited. She began to pour everything out in a rush.

“It was an advertisement. One of the other girls showed it to me in the
lunch-hour—I mean her lunch-hour, not mine. She’s in an office——”

“Don’t you have lunch?”

“Well, I do as a rule, but I hadn’t time today because she showed me the
advertisement and I rushed straight round to the address, which was
Claridge’s—and when I got there, there were about six other girls
waiting there too, and no one very pleased about it, if you know what I
mean. So I thought, ‘Well, if this has been going on all day, I haven’t
got an earthly.’ ”

“And had it?”

“Well, I think it had, because I was the last to go up, and Mrs. Oakley
said it was making her feel quite giddy. There was a red-haired girl
coming out as I went in, and she stamped her foot at me in the corridor
and said in one of those piercing whispers you can hear all over the
place, ‘Pure poison—I wouldn’t take it for a thousand a year’. Then she
grinned and said, ‘Well, I suppose I should, but I should end by cutting
her throat and my own, and anybody else’s who was handy’.”

Justin sounded quite interested—for him.

“What does one say to a total stranger who bursts into confidences about
throat-cutting in a corridor at Claridge’s? These exciting things don’t
happen to me. You intrigue me. What did you say?”

“I said, ‘Why?’ ”

“How perfectly to the point!”

“And she said, ‘Go and see for yourself. I shouldn’t touch it unless
you’re absolutely on your uppers.’ And I said, ‘Well, I am.’ ”

“And are you?”

In a tone of undiminished cheerfulness Dorinda said,

“Just about.”

“Is that the reason why there wasn’t time for lunch?”

He heard her laugh.

“Oh, well, it doesn’t matter now, because I’ve got the job. I went in,
and Mrs. Oakley was lying on a sofa with most of the blinds down, all
except one which made a spotlight where you had to go and sit and be
looked at. It gave me the sort of feeling of being on the stage without
any of the proper clothes, or make-up, or anything.”

“Continue.”

“I couldn’t see much to start with, but she sounded fretty. When I got
used to the light, she had a lot of fair hair which she was being rather
firm with—not letting it go grey, you know. Fortyish, I thought. And
she hadn’t ever got out of being a spoilt child—that sort. And the most
heavenly pale pink negligée, the kind people have in films, and a little
gold bottle of smelling-salts.”

“Who is she?”

“Mrs. Oakley. Her husband’s name is Martin, and he’s a financier.
They’ve got pots of money and a little boy of five. His name is Martin
too, but they call him Marty, which is pretty frightful for a boy, don’t
you think?”

“I do. Go on.”

Dorinda went on.

“Well, first she moaned at me and said all these girls were making her
giddy. And I said didn’t any of them do? And she said no—their voices
were wrong. She had to have a voice that didn’t jar her nerves, and the
last girl was a volcano. I said what about my voice, because I thought
if it jarred her like the others, it wasn’t any good my sitting in a
spotlight wasting time. She had a good sniff at the smelling-salts and
said she thought I had a soothing personality. After that we never
looked back, and she’s giving me three pounds a week!”

Justin showed a disappointing lack of enthusiasm.

“What is this job—what are you supposed to do?”

Dorinda giggled.

“She calls it being her secretary. I think I do all the things she’s too
fragile to do herself—writing notes, doing the flowers, answering the
telephone when it’s someone who insists on speaking to her. She took
quite a long time telling me about that. There are times when it jars
her too much even to hear the voice of an intimate friend, and she has
to be fresh for Martin in the evenings. And then I keep an eye on Marty
when his nursery governess gets an afternoon off, and—oh, well, that
sort of thing.”

“And where does all this go on—at Claridge’s?”

“Oh, no. She’s got what she calls a country cottage in Surrey. As
there’s her, and him, and Marty, and the nursery governess, and me, and
a staff of servants, and they mean to have house parties every week-end,
I expect it’s something pretty vast. Anyhow it’s called the Mill House,
and we go down there to-morrow.”

After a pause Justin said with notable restraint,

“It sounds damp—water in the cellars, and mildew on your shoes in the
morning.”

Dorinda shook her head.

“It’s not that kind of mill—she said so. It’s on the top of a hill.
There used to be a windmill, but it fell down and somebody built this
house. I’ll write and tell you all about it. Did you hear me say I was
going down to-morrow?”

“Yes. You’d better dine with me tonight.”

Dorinda laughed.

“I don’t know that I can.”

“Why don’t you know?”

“Well, I was dining with Tip, but I told him I wouldn’t unless he let
Buzzer come too, and I don’t really know——”

Justin said in his most superior voice,

“Cut it out! I’ll call for you at half past seven.”




                                   II


Martin Oakley came out of Gregory Porlock’s office and shut the door. He
stood with his hand on the knob for about half a minute as if he were
half inclined to turn it again and go back. A tall man of a loose, rangy
build, with a sallow skin, receding hair, and dark, rather veiled eyes.
As he presently made up his mind and went on down the stairs without
waiting for the lift he was frowning. If Dorinda Brown had been there
she would have been struck by his resemblance to the cross dark little
boy whom she had encountered briefly as she came away from Mrs. Oakley’s
suite. But Dorinda wasn’t there—she was telephoning ecstatically to
Justin Leigh from the Heather Club. There was, therefore, no one to
remark on the likeness.

Inside the room which Martin Oakley had just left Gregory Porlock, with
everything handsome about him, was holding a telephone receiver to his
ear and waiting for Mr. Tote to say “Hullo!” at the other end of the
line. Everything in the office was suavely and comfortably the best of
its kind. Mr. Porlock called himself a General Agent, and nobody who
entered this room could doubt that he made his agency pay. From the
carpet on the floor to the three or four paintings on the walls,
everything declared that solid balance at the bank which needs no vulgar
advertisement but makes itself felt along the avenues of taste. The
richness was a subdued richness. Gregory Porlock’s clothes were part of
it. Admirable in themselves, they not only did not have to atone for
nature’s defects, but actually gained from nature’s bounty. He was an
exceedingly personable man, rather florid of complexion, in marked and
becoming contrast to the colour of his dark eyes and a head of very
thick iron-grey hair. He might be in his middle forties, and he might
be, and probably was, a couple of stone heavier than he had been ten
years before, but it was not unbecoming and he carried it with an air.

The line crackled and Mr. Tote said, “’Ullo!”

It is not to be supposed that Mr. Tote was in the habit of dropping his
h’s. If he had ever done so, it was a long time ago, but like a great
many other people he still said “’Ullo!” when confronted by a telephone.

Gregory Porlock smiled as affably as if Mr. Tote could see him.

“Hullo, Tote—how are you? Gregory Porlock speaking.” The telephone
crackled. “And Mrs. Tote? I want you both to come down for the
week-end.... My dear fellow, I simply won’t take no for an answer.”

The telephone crackled again. With the receiver at his ear, Gregory
Porlock was aware of Mr. Tote excusing himself.

“I don’t see that we really can—the wife’s none too well——”

“My dear fellow, I’m sorry to hear that. But you know, sometimes a
change—and though the Grange is an old house, we’ve got central heating
everywhere and I can promise to keep her warm. There will be a pleasant
party too. Do you know the Martin Oakleys?”

“I’ve met Oakley.”

Gregory Porlock laughed.

“But not his wife? Then we’re in the same boat. They won’t be in the
house-party because they’ve just moved into a house of their own quite
near me. Horrible great barrack of a place. But don’t tell Oakley I said
so—he thinks it’s bracing. I’ll get them to come over and dine. They’re
my nearest neighbours, so I must contrive to meet Mrs. Oakley. I’m told
she’s pretty. Well now, you’ll come—won’t you?”

Mr. Tote was heard to swallow.

“I don’t know that we can——”

“My dear Tote! Oh, by the way, you have that memorandum I sent you? The
address? And the date? Well, I have one or two more that might interest
you. I thought we might talk the whole thing over in a friendly spirit
if you came down. I really think it would be a good plan—don’t you? ...
Oh, splendid! I shall look forward to it so much. Goodbye.”

He hung up, and almost immediately dialled another number. This time it
was a woman’s voice that answered.

“Moira Lane speaking.” A pretty voice, a good deal farther up the social
scale than Mr. Tote’s.

Gregory Porlock announcing himself, compliments were exchanged. Miss
Lane was invited to join the week-end party, and accepted with alacrity.

“I’d love to! Who else have you got?”

“The Totes. You won’t know them, and you won’t want to. I want to talk
over a bit of business with him.”

“Isn’t he one of our Newest Rich?”

“That’s it. Her jewellery has to be seen to be believed.”

Moira laughed. It was a pretty sound.

“What is she like?”

“A white mouse.”

“My dear Greg!”

“You needn’t talk to her. The others in the house will be a Mr. and Miss
Masterman—brother and sister—just come in for a lot of money from an
old cousin.”

“Some people have all the luck,” said Miss Lane in a heart-felt manner.

He laughed.

“Perhaps there’ll be enough to go round—you can’t tell, can you?”

“Anyone else?”

“Oh, yes—Leonard Carroll for you.”

“Greg, _darling_! Why for me?”

“The nearest approach to a fellow bright young thing.”

“My poor sweet! We’re both of us going to be thirty as soon as makes no
difference.”

He laughed.

“A delightful age. If I may use a nursery metaphor, you have got past
the bread and butter and begun on the cake.”

He could hear her blow him a kiss.

“Is Len really coming? Last time I saw him he told me he was booked up
for months. What it is to be a popular Entertainer!”

“_The_ popular Entertainer, isn’t it? I don’t think he’d care about that
‘a’ somehow. But—oh, yes, he’ll come. Well, I’ll be seeing you.”

He hung up, smiling pleasantly.

After a moment he dialled again.

“Is that the Luxe?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Oh—has Mr. Leonard Carroll finished his turn in the cabaret?”

“Well, sir, I think he has, just about.”

“Could you send someone to tell him I’d like a word with him? ...
Gregory Porlock. I’ll hold on.”

He had a little time to wait. He beguiled it by humming the air of an
old Scotch song. Presently the humming broke into words:

    “The love that I had chosen
    Was to my heart’s content.
    The salt sea shall be frozen
    Before that I repent.
    Repent it will I never
    Until the day I dee,
    But the Lowlands of Holland
    Have twined my love and me.”

A lovely minor air, rendered softly in an agreeable baritone. There was
time to repeat the refrain before Leonard Carroll said, “Hullo!”

Gregory Porlock noted that he seemed a little out of breath.

“My dear fellow, I hope I haven’t hurried you.”

“Not at all. What do you want?”

“My dear fellow!” There was some good-humoured protest in Gregory’s
tone. “But there—I expect you are up to the eyes. No time for me—eh?”

“I didn’t say that.”

Gregory laughed.

“Well, I hope you didn’t mean it. Joking apart, I’ve rung up to find out
if you’ll come down to my place for the week-end.”

“I can’t possibly.”

“My dear Carroll, you’re so impulsive. You know, I’ve got a feeling that
it’s overwork, and that if you are not careful you’ll be finding you are
having to take a very long rest. In your own interests you shouldn’t let
it come to that—the proverbial stitch in time. I’ll be expecting you on
Saturday.”

“I tell you, I can’t come.” Carroll really wasn’t troubling to be
polite.

Gregory continued to smile.

“What a pity! By the way, if you ever have time for reading, I’ve got
something that’s right up your street. Fellow called Tauscher.
Extraordinary revelations. But there—I don’t suppose you’ve time.”

There was rather a long pause before Carroll said in a slow, dragging
voice,

“Not unless I get away for a week-end.”

“Well then, my dear fellow, it’s easy. Come along down to me on Saturday
and I’ll fix you up with Tauscher.”

There was another pause. The slow voice said,

“All right.”

Gregory Porlock heard a click at the other end of the line. Leonard
Carroll had hung up.

He had one more call to make. When a woman’s voice answered he asked for
Mr. Masterman. The voice replied without bonhomie,

“He’s engaged. I can take a message.”

Gregory Porlock gave a laugh of the lighter social kind.

“Of course—it’s Miss Masterman! How stupid of me! I didn’t recognize
your voice. It’s Gregory Porlock.”

“Oh, yes. What is it, Mr. Porlock?” There was some slight evidence of a
thaw.

“Well, I just rang up to say how much I’m looking forward to seeing you
at the week-end. I hope you can get down to tea?”

“I don’t know—I shall have to ask my brother——”

“All right, I’ll hold on if you don’t mind. Will you tell him that, with
regard to the matter of business he was consulting me about, I think
I’ve worked out a very satisfactory solution. I really don’t think he
need worry about it any more.”

A telephone is a very sensitive instrument. Miss Masterman was quite
five miles away, but Gregory Porlock distinctly heard her catch her
breath. He might have been mistaken, but he did not think so. The sound
told him something which he wanted to know. It informed him that she was
in her brother’s confidence. He had thought so, but it was always better
to be quite sure of your ground.

When she came back presently and said that they would try to be down at
the Grange by four o’clock, he was the delighted, genial host.

“Splendid! I hope you’ll like the party. All pleasant people, and one
famous one. Leonard Carroll is coming, so we oughtn’t to be dull. Then
there’s a very charming girl, Moira Lane. And the Totes—nice simple
people. And some near neighbours thrown in. Well, all the best to your
brother.”

Miss Masterman said, “Thank you,” and sounded as if she meant it.

Gregory Porlock hung up and burst out laughing.




                                  III


Justin Leigh took Dorinda to one of those places which is just going to
be the rage. When it actually did become the rage he would probably say
it was vulgar and go somewhere else. He was a beautiful and immaculate
young man on the opinionated side of thirty, with a job in the Ministry
of Reconstruction. No one, to look at him, could have believed it
possible that he had spent nearly six years in a more or less constant
condition of being dirty, unshaved, and soaked to the skin, with
excursions into being baked and frozen. There were also considerable
periods when his immediate surroundings were going up in smoke. If you
survived, it left you even filthier than before. All very incredible
when you looked at the dark soignée young man with his air of careless
elegance and the poise which always gave Dorinda a slight feeling of
being back in the schoolroom. She didn’t give way to this feeling,
because if you once let yourself start an inferiority complex with
Justin, he would become simply intolerable, and that would be a pity
because, umpteenth cousin or no, he was the only relation she had left.

She could feel his eye on her dress. It was a blue dress, and she had
bought it because she liked the colour, and of course that was a
mistake. If you’ve only got one dining-out dress, it’s simply got to be
black, and no matter what else you do without, it’s got to be good. Then
you just go on wearing it until one of you dies.

She met the eye with firmness mitigated by the dimples.

“It’s no good—I know it all by heart—it hasn’t got any line, and line
is what sees you through. But it’s a nice colour, isn’t it?”

“My child, it’s a disaster.”

Dorinda was not lacking in spirit.

“What’s the good of saying that when I’ve got it on? The pink one was
worse—I’ve given it away. And you can say what you like, this one suits
me. Tip said it did.”

“Tip Remington is in the maudlin state of mind in which he would say
anything.”

“Buzzer said so too.”

“Did he?”

Justin’s voice was completely uninterested in Buzzer Blake. He was
consulting the menu, and proceeded to catch the head waiter’s eye. After
an intimate and technical discussion he turned back to Dorinda, who was
solacing herself for her lost lunch by thinking that it sounded as if it
was going to be a heavenly dinner, and said,

“Are you engaged to either of them?”

She came out of a lovely dream of food and met his eyes frankly.

“Well, I don’t know——”

Justin’s eyebrows rose, as at a social solecism.

“Hadn’t you better find out? I should hate to interfere, but you can’t
marry them both.”

“Oh, I’m not marrying them. I don’t want to marry anyone for a long
time.”

The soup arrived. It smelt heavenly. It was very difficult to take it
slowly enough, but Aunt Mary’s iron training held. One of the last
things she had said to Dorinda was, ‘Well, I’ve only got fifty pounds a
year to leave you, but I’ve taught you how to behave like a
gentlewoman.’ There were moments when she found it inconvenient. This
was one of them. She was very hungry.

Between sips she imparted her views on matrimony.

“You see, it lasts such a long time, unless you go in for divorce, and
that always seems to me rather nasty, unless you’ve simply got to.”

Justin looked faintly amused and said,

“It can be overdone.”

Dorinda pursued the theme.

“Suppose I married Tip. He’s twenty-four, and I’m twenty-one. It might
go on for about fifty or sixty years. It’s a frightfully long time. Of
course he’s got plenty of money. He’s in his uncle’s office and he’ll be
a partner in a year or two, and it would be rather nice to have one’s
own flat and a car, but I’ve got a feeling I’d get tired of being
married to Tip——” She broke off to help herself to _sole meuniére_.

“Then I shouldn’t do it.”

Dorinda said, “Oh, I’m not going to—at least I don’t suppose I shall,
unless the Oakleys really do turn out to be pure poison like the
red-headed girl said. Do you know, she looked nice. I wouldn’t have
minded knowing her.”

“It isn’t the slightest good trailing red-headed herrings across the
path. The point is not what you either think or don’t think about
getting married, but what these wretched lads think you are thinking.
Have you, or have you not, given either or both of them to suppose that
you will marry him?”

Dorinda beamed.

“Justin darling, this is _the_ most lovely fish I’ve ever tasted. I’m so
glad I didn’t have any lunch.”

He looked at her severely.

“Neither red herrings nor soles, Dorinda. Have you, or have you not?”

“Do you think I could have some more?”

“You can if you like, but you’d better see what’s coming.”

After an earnest study of the menu she sighed regretfully and said
perhaps she had better not—“It all sounds too lovely.”

“Well then, perhaps you’ll answer my question.”

Whilst the waiter was changing their plates she gazed at Justin, and he
had occasion to observe that the offending dress really did make her
hair look very bright. To the callow taste of Tip Remington and Buzzer
Blake it would doubtless appear that it was becoming. On the other hand,
it was improbable that they would notice or appreciate the fact that her
lashes were of exactly the same golden brown. If she ever started
darkening them, he would have to speak to her about it, because it was a
very unusual colour and from the purely æsthetic point of view she
couldn’t be allowed to play tricks with it.

When they had helped themselves to chicken _en casserole_ with mushrooms
and all sorts of other exciting things in the gravy, he put his question
again.

“Well,” said Dorinda, “I might say, ‘What has it got to do with you?’ ”
Her tone was perfectly friendly.

“Are you going to?”

She laughed.

“I don’t suppose I am. The trouble is——”

“Well?”

“It’s so hard to say no.”

This had the pleasing effect of making Justin laugh. On the rare
occasions when that happened Dorinda always felt that she was a social
success. Her eyes became several shades brighter and her colour
deepened.

“Well, it is,” she protested. “I like them both dreadfully. If anything,
I think I like Buzzer best, but perhaps that’s only because he hasn’t
got any money, which gives me a fellow feeling. But I don’t really want
to marry someone who has absolutely nothing, because when I do get
married I should like to have some children, and if one hadn’t got
anything at all, it would be a bit difficult to bring them up.”

“It might be.”

“Oh, it would. I’ve thought about it a lot. You see, I think two boys
and two girls would be nice. And there’s not only bringing them up, with
shoes, and school books—even if all the education is free—but it’s
putting them out in the world and getting them jobs. So I don’t think it
would be a good plan to marry Buzzer even if I wanted to. And I should
feel a bit low if I married Tip just because there would be enough
money.”

“My good child, if you attempt to marry either of them, I shall come and
forbid the banns.”

Dorinda evinced a frank interest.

“How do you do it?”

“I’ve no idea, but I shall make it my business to find out. You’d better
stiffen the backbone and practise saying no for five minutes every
morning in front of the looking-glass. You can’t marry everyone who asks
you.”

“Nobody has except Tip—not really. Buzzer just said he couldn’t—not
until he got a proper job, but would I wait for him. I don’t know if
you’d count that or not.”

“I shouldn’t count either of them. Look here, will you promise me
something?”

Dorinda possessed a vein of caution. It prompted her to ask,

“What is it?”

“Don’t get engaged to anyone without asking me. And don’t be in a hurry.
Generally speaking, I should say the idea is not to get engaged unless
you mean to get married, and not to get married unless you feel you
must. Didn’t your Aunt Mary ever tell you that?” There was a slight
quizzical smile in his eyes.

Dorinda said candidly, “She told me never to get married at all. You
see, she had a complex about men. Because of the Wicked Uncle.”

“I never met your Aunt Mary, but she sounds a most unpleasant woman.”

Dorinda did her duty by the dead.

“Oh, she wasn’t really. It was frightfully good of her to bring me up,
you know. Nobody else wanted to, but she thought it was her duty and she
did. I was only two, and I must have been a lot of trouble.”

If Justin had a softened thought of Dorinda at two, smilingly
unconscious of being a nuisance, he showed no sign of it. He simply
disliked the late Mrs. Porteous a little more.

Dorinda pursued the theme.

“The Wicked Uncle really was an uncommonly bad lot. He used to go off
and run riot, and then come back, take anything she’d got, and go off
again.”

“There’s a Married Woman’s Property Act. Why did she let him?”

“Well, she told me about that when she was ill. I think she was a bit
wandery and didn’t quite know what she was saying, but she meant it all
right. She said, ‘Don’t ever get married, Dorinda. It’s just giving a
man the power to wring your heart.’ And another time she said, ‘He was
bad through and through.’ She asked me if I remembered him. I said I
remembered calling him Uncle Glen, and that he had dancing dark eyes,
and a round white scar on his wrist. And she said in a dreadfully bitter
voice, ‘He had what they call charm. And he’d take anyone’s last drop of
blood and their last penny, and laugh.’ Then she told me that he’d had
all her money except her annuity and the fifty pounds a year she was
leaving me. And she said never to let him have a penny of it.”

“He isn’t dead?”

“She didn’t know. And right at the end when she was very wandery she
wanted me to promise I’d never marry, but of course I wouldn’t.”

“You can refer the applicants to me.”

“Justin, do you know, I believe you’ve got something there. It really is
frightfully difficult for a girl to go on saying no all on her own. I’ve
often felt it would be useful to have a stern parent or guardian or
someone in the background to say it for you. Would you—really?”

“I would—I will. You can come and watch me if you like. I feel I’m
going to be good at it. Are you going to have ice pudding?”

Dorinda looked at him reproachfully.

“Of course I am! Justin, it’s a lovely dinner!”

“Enjoy it, my child. And now listen. I’ve been finding out about your
Oakleys. He made a lot of money in the war. Theoretically the Excess
Profits Tax made this impossible. Actually quite a lot of people did it.
Martin Oakley is one of them.”

“Yes, I told you he’d got a lot of money—Mrs. Oakley said so. She’s
that sort—she tells you everything.”

Justin laughed.

“Then Martin Oakley probably takes care she doesn’t know anything to
tell. Anyhow he’s supposed to be financially sound, and there’s nothing
against her, so there seems to be no reason why you shouldn’t take the
job.”

An agreeable glow made Dorinda’s colour rise. Justin had actually taken
the trouble to find out about the Oakleys because she was going to them.
It was frightfully nice of him. She said so.

“Because there isn’t anyone else to do it, is there—only me. And of
course it’s much nicer to have the stern parent or guardian or whatnot
to do it for you. It gives you a background, if you know what I mean.”

Justin smiled rather nicely.

“I definitely refuse to be a parent.”

Dorinda regarded him with thoughtful appreciation.

“No, you’re much more the right age for a brother, aren’t you?”

She was surprised and a little startled at the warmth with which he
said,

“I’m damned if I’ll be a brother, Dorinda!”

In her own mind she put it down to the unlucky blue dress. Justin’s
sister would certainly never have bought it just because she liked the
colour. She would have had perfect taste, and would never have made him
feel ashamed of her in public. She said with artless candour,

“Of course if you’d had a sister she wouldn’t have been a bit like me.”

Justin had retreated behind an enigmatic smile.

“I’ll be a whatnot,” he said.




                                   IV


Dorinda travelled down to the Mill House next day in a very large Rolls
which contained Mrs. Oakley, the nursery governess whose name was
Florence Cole, Marty, herself, and, in front beside the chauffeur, Mrs.
Oakley’s maid, who looked like an old retainer but had actually only
been with her for a week. Nobody seemed to have been with her for very
long except Marty. Florence Cole had done about ten days, and if Dorinda
was any judge, she was rapidly working up to leave at the end of the
month. The pay might be good, but Marty was definitely poison. As he
bore no resemblance to his little fair-haired wisp of a mother, Dorinda
concluded that he must take after Mr. Oakley, in which case it was
perhaps not surprising that the latter had emerged from the war in the
odour of prosperity. Marty was the most acquisitive little boy she had
ever had the misfortune to meet. He wanted everything he saw, and
bounced up and down on the well sprung cushions demanding it at the top
of his voice. If he didn’t get it he roared like a bull, and Mrs. Oakley
said fretfully, “_Really_, Miss Cole!”

The first thing he wanted was a small black goat tethered by the side of
the road, which they passed in a flash but which he lamented loudly
until his attention was caught by Dorinda’s brooch. His mouth, which had
been open to the fullest extent, fell to, cutting off a siren-like
scream half way up the scale, and a quite normal little boy’s voice
said, “What’s that?” A grubby finger pointed.

Dorinda said, “It’s a brooch.”

“Why is it?”

“Why are you a little boy?”

Marty began to bounce.

“Why is it a brooch? I want to see it. Give it to me!”

“You can see it from there quite nicely, or you can come over here and
look. It’s a Scotch brooch. It belonged to my great-grandmother. Those
yellow stones are cairngorms. They come out of the Cairngorm mountains.”

“How do they come out?”

“People find them lying about there.”

“I want to go there and find some—I want to go now.”

Dorinda kept her head.

“It would be much too cold. There would be deep snow all over the
place—you wouldn’t be able to find the stones.”

Marty had continued to bounce.

“How deep would the snow be?”

“It would be four foot six and a half inches. It would be right over
your head.”

Marty was a plain, dark little boy. A dull red colour came into his
face. He bounced harder.

“I don’t want it to be!”

Dorinda smiled at him.

“The snow will go away in summer.”

He bounced right out of his seat.

“I want to go now! I want your brooch! Undo it, quick!”

“I can’t do that.”

“Why can’t you? I want it!”

Mrs. Oakley, who had been leaning back with her eyes shut, now opened
them and said in a hopeless tone,

“If he doesn’t get it he’ll scream.”

Dorinda regarded her with interest.

“Do you always give him things when he screams?”

Mrs. Oakley closed her eyes again.

“Oh, yes. He goes on screaming till I do, and my nerves won’t stand it.”

Dorinda wondered if anyone had tried what a good hard smack would do.
She almost asked the question, but thought perhaps she had better not.
Marty was opening his mouth. A roar was obviously imminent. Her fingers
tingled as she unfastened the brooch and held it out. With a carefree
smile he took it, jabbed the pin into her leg as far as it would go, and
with a shriek of laughter tossed the brooch clean out of the top of the
window, which happened to be two or three inches open. By the time the
car had been stopped it was extremely difficult to identify the spot.
After a halfhearted search they drove on, leaving Dorinda’s
great-grandmother’s brooch somewhere by the wayside.

“Marty has a marvellously straight eye,” said Mrs. Oakley. “Martin will
be so pleased. Fancy him getting it right through the top of the window
like that!”

Even Dorinda’s sweet temper found it difficult to respond. Florence Cole
had obviously given up trying. She was a pale, rather puffy young woman
who had been brought up to breathe through her nose, however difficult.
Whenever the car stopped she could be heard doing so.

Marty continued to bounce and scream—for a wild rabbit whose scut
glimmered away into a hedgerow, for an inn sign depicting a white hart
on a green ground, for a cat asleep inside a cottage window, and finally
for chocolate. Upon which Miss Cole, still breathing hard, opened her
bag and produced a bar. He went to sleep over it after smearing his face
and hands profusely. The resultant peace was almost too good to be true.

He slept until they arrived at the Mill House. There was a lot of
shrubbery round it, and a dark, gloomy drive overhung with trees went
winding up to the top of the hill, where the house stood in the open,
exposed to every point of the compass except the south. It was a very
large and perfectly hideous house, with patterns of red and yellow brick
running about at random, and frightful little towers and balconies all
over the place. Mrs. Oakley shivered and said the situation was very
bracing. And then Marty woke up and began to roar for his tea. Dorinda
wondered whether she would be having nursery tea, and felt selfishly
relieved when she found that she wouldn’t. But she no longer expected
Florence Cole to leave at the month. Her only doubt now was whether she
would catch the last train tonight or the first tomorrow morning. In
which case—no, she would _not_ look after Marty—not for thousands a
year—unless she had a free hand.

She had tea with Mrs. Oakley in a distressingly feminine apartment which
she was thrilled to hear her employer call the boudoir. Dorinda had
never encountered a boudoir before except in an old-fashioned novel. It
lived up to her fondest dreams, with a rose and ivory carpet, rose and
ivory curtains lined with pink, a couch with more cushions than she had
ever before seen assembled at one time, and a general air of being
tiresomely expensive.

Mrs. Oakley, in a rose-coloured negligée covered with frills, nestled
among the cushions, whilst Dorinda sat on a horribly uncomfortable gold
chair and poured out. Just as they were finishing, a knock came at the
door. Mrs. Oakley said “Come in!” in rather a surprised voice, and
Florence Cole, still in her outdoor things, advanced into the room. She
wore an air of dogged purpose, and Dorinda knew what she was going to
say before she opened her mouth. She said it in quite a loud, determined
voice,

“I’m sorry, Mrs. Oakley, but I’m not staying. There’s a train at six,
and I’m catching it. I’ve given that child his tea, and left him with
the housemaid. She tells me his old nurse is in the village, and that
_she_ can manage him. I can’t. If there’s anyone who can, you’d better
have her back. He’s just tried to pour the boiling kettle-water over my
foot. If you ask me, he’s not safe.”

“He has such high spirits,” said Mrs. Oakley.

“He wants a good whipping!” said Miss Cole. A dull colour came into her
face. “Are you going to pay me for the ten days I’ve put up with him,
Mrs. Oakley? You’re not legally bound to, but I think anyone would say
I’d earned it.”

Mrs. Oakley looked bewildered.

“I don’t know what I did with my purse,” she said. “It will be somewhere
in my bedroom—if you don’t mind, Miss Brown. Perhaps you and Miss Cole
could look for it together. It will be in that bag I had in the car.”

When they had found it, and Florence Cole had been paid a generous
addition to cover her railway fare, her manner softened.

“If you like, Mrs. Oakley, I can stop and see Nurse Mason on my way
through the village. Doris says I can’t miss the house.”

Mrs. Oakley fluttered.

“Oh, no, you can’t miss it. But perhaps she won’t come back. My husband
thought Marty was getting too old for a nurse. She was very much upset
about it. Perhaps she won’t come.”

“Doris says she’ll jump at it,” said Florence Cole. “She says she’s
devoted to Marty.” Her tone was that of one confronted by some
phenomenon quite beyond comprehension.

Mrs. Oakley continued to flutter.

“Well, perhaps you’d better. But my husband mayn’t like it—perhaps Miss
Brown——”

“I couldn’t possibly,” said Dorinda with unmistakable firmness.

Mrs. Oakley closed her eyes.

“Well then, perhaps—yes, it will be very kind if you will—only I hope
my husband——”

Florence Cole said, “Good-bye, Mrs. Oakley,” and walked out of the room.

Dorinda went out on to the landing with her and shook hands.

“I hope you’ll get a nice job soon,” she said. “Have you anywhere to
go?”

“Yes, I’ve got a married sister. Are you going to stay?”

“I shall if I can.”

Florence Cole said, “Well, if you ask me, it’s the kind of place to get
out of.”

Dorinda remembered that afterwards.




                                   V


It was about an hour and a half later that Dorinda knocked on what had
been the nursery door. A voice said, “Come in!” and she had no sooner
done so than she became aware that after a brief unhappy interlude as a
schoolroom it had quite firmly reverted to being a nursery. All Marty’s
clothes were airing in front of a fire, Marty was putting away his toys
in a toy-cupboard, and a large, firm, buxom woman whom no one could have
taken for anything but a nurse was sitting up to the table darning
socks. The scene was peaceful in the extreme, but there was an
underlying feeling that if anything broke the peace, Nurse would want to
know the reason why. Dorinda knew all about nurses. She had had a very
strict old-fashioned one herself in the days before so much of Aunt
Mary’s money had been disposed of by the Wicked Uncle.

She said, “Good afternoon, Nurse,” very respectfully, and then explained
that Mrs. Oakley had asked her to find out whether she had everything
she wanted.

Nurse Mason inclined her head and said in a tone which was more
non-belligerent than neutral that what she hadn’t got she would see
about, thank you.

Marty stopped with a headless horse in his hand.

“Nannie says she never did see anything like the way my things is gone
to rack an’ ruin.”

“That will be enough from you, Marty! You keep right on putting those
toys away—and shocked I am to see the way they’ve been broke.”

Marty thrust the mutilated horse out of sight and turned round with a
cheerful smile.

“I’ve been a _very_ naughty boy since you’ve been away, haven’t I,
Nannie?”

“You go on picking up your toys!”

With an armful of wreckage, Marty continued to discourse.

“I frowed her brooch out of the car”—he appealed to Dorinda for
confirmation—“didn’t I? And I digged a pin into her leg to make it
bleed. Did it bleed, Miss Brown?”

“I haven’t looked,” said Dorinda.

Nurse had fixed a penetrating eye upon the culprit.

“Then you say you’re sorry to Miss Brown this very minute! Digging pins
into people to make them bleed—I never heard such a thing! More like
naked heathen savages than a child brought up in any nursery of mine! Go
and say you’re sorry at once!”

Marty dropped all the toys he had gathered, advanced two paces, clasped
his hands in front of him, and recited in a rapid sing-song.

“I’m sorry I was a naughty boy and I won’t do it again.”

There was a little talk about the brooch, Nurse being much shocked on
hearing that it had been a legacy from a great-grandmother, and Marty
contributing a few facts about cairngorms and finishing up with,

“I frowed it as hard as shooting from a gun.”

“I don’t want to hear no more about it,” said Nurse with decision.

“And I frowed water out of the kettle on to Miss Cole, and she put on
her coat and hat and went away.”

“That’s enough, Marty! If those toys aren’t back in ten minutes, you
know what will happen.”

He bent strenuously to the task.

Dorinda turned to go, but just as she did so something caught her eye.
When Marty dropped his armful it had really been more of a throw than a
drop. The lighter things had scattered, amongst them a bent
carte-de-visite photograph. Dorinda picked it up and started to
straighten it out. At just what instant everything in her began a
landslide, she didn’t know. She heard Nurse say sharply,

“Marty, wherever did you get that photograph from? Is it one of your
mother’s?”

And she heard him say, “It comed out of a box.”

“What box did it come out of?”

“A box. And it was all crumpled up and stuck in underneaf.”

Dorinda heard the words, but she didn’t make anything of them. She was
sliding much too fast. By making a simply tremendous effort she managed
to say, “I’ll see it’s put back,” and she managed to get out of the
room.

Her own room was just across the landing. When she had locked herself in
she sat down on the bed and gazed in unbelieving horror at the crumpled
photograph. There wasn’t any mistake. The name of the photographer was
glaringly legible—“Charles Rowbecker and Son, Norwood.” It was the twin
photograph of the one in Aunt Mary’s album. It was, incredibly but
indisputably, a photograph of the Wicked Uncle.




                                   VI


It was certainly a shock. Practically everyone has a relation whom they
hope never to see again. There never has been, and probably never will
be a time when this would occasion any particular remark. Dorinda sat
and looked at the photograph and told herself what a perfectly ordinary
thing it was to have a Wicked Uncle and to find his photo doubled up
among the nursery toys of your employer’s brat. She had the feeling that
if she could convince herself of the ordinariness of what had just
happened she would stop feeling as if she might be going to be sick. The
fact was that she had always had what she chose to call a complex about
Glen Porteous. A very, very long time ago that famous charm of his had
charmed her too. And then one night she woke up and heard him talking to
Aunt Mary, and all the charm turned to bitter poison. She couldn’t have
been more than six years old, but she never forgot lying there in the
dark and hearing them in the next room. The door must have been open,
because she could hear quite well, and she never forgot, because it was
the first time that she had heard a grown-up person cry. Aunt Mary had
cried bitterly, and Uncle Glen had laughed at her as if she was doing
something very amusing. After that he went away for about two years.
Aunt Mary didn’t cry any more, but she got very strict and cross.

Dorinda came back out of the past. It was dead, and Aunt Mary was dead.
But was the Wicked Uncle dead too—that was the question. It wasn’t a
question to which she had any answer. His last appearance had been about
seven years ago, when he had blown in and blown out again, leaving Aunt
Mary noticeably more economical. She had rather taken it for granted
that he was dead because he hadn’t come back, but that might only have
been because he thought that there wasn’t any more to be had. As a
matter of fact there was the fifty pounds a year which Dorinda had now,
but he mightn’t have known about it, and the rest of what Aunt Mary had
being an annuity, he couldn’t, even with the worst intentions in the
world, put it in his pocket and walk off with it.

She stared at the photograph. It was the exact twin of the one in Aunt
Mary’s album. It showed a good-looking man with dark hair and very dark
dancing eyes. The hair curled a little too visibly. The teeth showed in
a smile which everyone who knew him had considered charming. Dorinda
wondered when it had been taken. Not later than about fifteen years ago,
because after that he only came to get what he could out of Aunt Mary,
and he wouldn’t have gone to a local photographer and given her a copy.
She thought it must have been done when they were living at Norwood.
Before the Row.

It was a long way from the time before the Row and Charles Rowbecker and
Son to Marty’s toy-cupboard and the Mill House. The most frightening
idea came suddenly into her head. Suppose the Wicked Uncle was Martin
Oakley. She was too sensible to encourage it, but it lurked. Hastily
assembling reasons to disprove it, she recalled that Nurse had given the
photograph no name. If it was a picture of Martin Oakley, wouldn’t she
have said, “What are you doing with your father’s picture all crumpled
up like that?” She stopped feeling sick and her spirits began to rise.
After all, the very worst that could happen would be that she might have
to leave her job. But she wouldn’t have to—she felt quite reassured
about that. Everyone has got old photograph albums full of junk. Aunt
Mary had forgotten the names of a lot of the people in hers. Uncle
Glen’s photograph was neither here nor there. It hadn’t the slightest
importance. It was just something out of a junkery. She was wearing a
dress with large patch pockets. She slipped the photograph into one of
them and went down.

It ought to have been the easiest thing in the world to walk into the
boudoir, slap the photograph down in front of Mrs. Oakley, and say,
“Marty had this knocking about in his toy-cupboard. I told Nurse I’d
bring it down.” But it wasn’t. When she thought about doing it she
couldn’t even open the door and go in. It was too stupid. If Doris, who
was one of the housemaids, hadn’t come along the passage, she might have
just stuck there and grown into the floor. As it was, she got herself
inside the room and found it empty. Voices from the bedroom next door
proclaimed that Mrs. Oakley was dressing for dinner.

With a feeling of relief, Dorinda put the photograph down upon a
gimcrack writing-table and ran upstairs to assume the despised blue
dress.

When she came down again Mrs. Oakley had exchanged the sofa for the most
comfortable of the armchairs. Her fluffy draperies were still pink, but
of a different shade. The photograph was nowhere to be seen. No
reference was made to it, which suited Dorinda very well. Anyone who had
known Glen Porteous might have just as good reasons as she had herself
for not wanting to talk about him.

They had a delightful meal on a tray. Dorinda told herself that there
were going to be far too many meals, and all much too good, but it was a
very pleasing change after the economical dullness of the food at the
Heather Club.

They had no more than finished dinner, when the telephone bell rang. As
it had been explained to her that her most important duty was to stand
between Mrs. Oakley and the telephone, Dorinda went to it. The
instrument stood upon the writing-table where she had put the
photograph. She lifted the receiver and said,

“Mrs. Oakley’s secretary speaking.”

A man’s voice said, “Will you tell Mrs. Oakley that Gregory Porlock
would like to speak to her?”

She put her hand over the receiver and repeated the request. With her
back to her, Mrs. Oakley murmured,

“I don’t speak to anyone except Martin or someone I know very well
indeed—never, never, _never_. He must talk to you, and you can tell me
what he says.”

Dorinda put the receiver to her ear again.

“I’m sorry, Mr. Porlock—Mrs. Oakley asks me to explain that she never
speaks on the telephone. I’m new, or I should have known. If you will
tell me what you want to say, I will pass it on.”

She heard Mr. Porlock smother a laugh. Well, that was better than
getting his back up. He said,

“Will you tell her I saw her husband this afternoon? I’m having a
week-end party, and he promised that he and his wife would join us for
dinner on Saturday night. He said it would be all right, but as I
haven’t had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Oakley yet I don’t want to seem
to be taking too much for granted.”

Dorinda repeated this, and received the fretful reply that if Martin had
said they would go, she supposed they would have to. The words were so
barely audible that there were grounds for hoping that they would not
carry as far as the Grange.

Dorinda conveyed a polite acceptance, and heard Mr. Porlock say,
“Splendid!”

The word rang a bell somewhere. It reminded her of something or someone
in one of those flashes which are so vivid whilst they last, and so
impossible to recall when they are gone. She came out of a dizzying
moment to hear him say,

“Now this is where I ought to be talking to Mrs. Oakley, because I want
to ask her to be very kind and bring you along. Miss Brown, isn’t it?
... Yes, I thought that was what Martin Oakley said—Miss Dorinda Brown.
Now will you be as persuasive as I should be myself and tell Mrs. Oakley
that I am a lady short and I am particularly anxious to make your
acquaintance.”

Dorinda fixed a grave, frowning gaze upon the instrument. She considered
Mr. Porlock’s manner to be on the familiar side. She repeated his
invitation in the baldest possible way.

“He says he is a woman short on Saturday, and will you bring me. He
seems to have fixed it up with Mr. Oakley.”

There was a murmur of assent. Dorinda put it into words again, heard
Gregory Porlock say, “Splendid!” and hung up.

When she came back to her seat she found herself the object of Mrs.
Oakley’s attention.

“What about an evening dress, Miss Brown? Have you one that will do?”

There really must be something wrong about that wretched blue dress,
because Mrs. Oakley simply didn’t consider it for a moment.

“Oh, no—that was what I was afraid of. Martin telephoned while I was
dressing, and he said I must see that you had something suitable.”

Dorinda wouldn’t have been human if she had been pleased. She said in a
restrained voice,

“There is no need for me to go.”

Mrs. Oakley’s face puckered up as if she were going to cry.

“Oh dear—now you are offended—and Martin will say I have no tact. And
it isn’t that I haven’t really, but I do think being tactful is the most
utterly exhausting thing, and my nerves won’t stand it. It will be so
much simpler if you just won’t be offended. Because of course we
couldn’t expect you to have clothes which you didn’t know you were going
to want. And of course we shouldn’t expect you to be put to any expense,
if you know what I mean.”

Dorinda knew quite well. She wasn’t Dorinda Brown—she was an Appanage,
an outward and visible sign of the Oakley’s financial standing. They
could no more go out to dinner with a shabby secretary than with shabby
liveries or an elderly broken-down car. Her Scottish pride stiffened.

And then she became aware that Mrs. Oakley was frightened. She was
actually leaning forward, and the hand on the arm of her chair shook.

“Miss Brown—please don’t be offended. You are quite a young girl—why
should you mind if we give you a frock?”

A real person had emerged from behind the frills. Not a very grown-up
person—not at all accustomed to letting go of its props, and very shaky
without them. Dorinda’s sweet temper reasserted itself. She said,

“But of course, Mrs. Oakley—it’s very kind of you.”

When Mrs. Oakley had gone to bed she rang up Justin Leigh.

“Look here, I’m coming up to town tomorrow.... Yes, I know you thought
you’d got rid of me—I did too. But you haven’t. There’s going to be a
reprieve—or perhaps you’ll feel as if it was a relapse.”

Justin’s voice sounded cool and amused.

“I don’t know that I should go as far as that. Is this leading up to the
fact that you will lunch with me tomorrow if I press you very hard?”

“Yes—at one o’clock. Because I’m being sent up to buy a dress to dine
out in on Saturday, and if we lunch together I can show you what I’ve
got, and if you thought it wouldn’t do, I could go back and change it.”

“Nothing doing. I don’t know where you’re in the habit of lunching with
Tip and Buzzer, but in my high-toned circles you can’t try things on
between courses.”

Dorinda gave a sort of wail.

“Justin, sometimes I do think you are a beast!”

“Far from it—I am a noble hero. I shall wangle my lunch-hour between
twelve and one and meet you at—where are you going?”

“Mrs. Oakley said any one of these ...” She read from a list of names.

“All right, we’ll take the big shop first. It will be easier for you to
wait about for me there—let’s say the glove counter. A connoisseur’s
eye can then direct your choice. What time do you get up?”

Dorinda was thrilled.

“Oh, Justin—will you really? I get up at half past ten. But that
doesn’t matter—I’ve got things to do for Mrs. Oakley. I can put in the
time all right—in fact I shall want it. I’m to be at Mr. Oakley’s
office at a half-past two, and he’ll drive me down. It will be more
peaceful than it was today—at least I hope so.”

“Why, what happened today?”

She began to tell him about Marty and her brooch. If she made an amusing
story of it, perhaps Justin would laugh. It appeared quite soon that he
wouldn’t. He actually sounded angry as he exclaimed,

“Your great-grandmother’s brooch!”

“The only one I’ve got,” said Dorinda ruefully. “I shall have to buy a
gold safety-pin to fasten the things that just have to be fastened. I
know where I can get one for seven-and-six.”

“Then it won’t be gold.”

Dorinda giggled.

“You’re so lordly. It won’t be real of course—only rolled.”

Justin lost his temper quite suddenly. She had never heard him do it
before, and it surprised her very much. The odd thing was that she heard
it go, like something breaking at the other end of the line. He couldn’t
have banged a door, but there was that kind of effect about it. After
which he said in quite a violent tone, “I never heard such nonsense in
my life!” and jammed the receiver back.

Dorinda went to bed a good deal heartened.




                                  VII


Miss Maud Silver was choosing wool for a set of infant’s vests. After
the khaki and Air Force yarn she had knitted up during the war, to say
nothing of useful grey stockings for her niece Ethel’s three boys, it
was a real pleasure to handle these soft blush-pink balls—all ready
wound, and so much better than you could wind it yourself. Ethel’s
eldest brother, who had been abroad for so long, had come home some
months ago, and his wife was expecting her first child. Quite an
excitement in the family, because they had been married for ten years
and the empty nursery had begun to have a discouraging effect upon
Dorothy. Miss Silver felt that something rather special in the way of
vests would be appropriate. This pale pink wool was a most charming
colour, and so soft and light. She paid for her purchase, and stood
waiting for her change and the parcel.

The wool was heaped in a profusion of delightful shades upon a large
three-tiered stand where four departments met. Straight down the way she
was facing there were stockings, gloves, handkerchiefs. Behind her a
long vista of inexpensive gowns. To the right, past a stand festooned
with umbrellas, she had a view of pull-overs and knitwear. Whilst to her
left a display of glass flowers, bead chains, and necklets conducted the
eye to the millinery department. Miss Silver thought it all looked very
bright and pretty. It was nice to see the shops filled again after the
lean years when even the cleverest window-dressing would not make things
go round.

Someone else was admiring the chains and necklets. There were little
bunches of flowers in glass and bright enamel—violets, daisies, a spray
of holly, a spray of mimosa. The girl who was looking at them lingered
over the mimosa. She had rather bright golden-brown hair, with
eye-lashes of exactly the same colour, and she was wearing a loose coat
of honey-coloured tweed. It was rather shabby, but it had been well cut,
and it suited her. Miss Silver thought the mimosa spray would look very
well on it. The girl evidently thought so too. She looked, and looked
again, and then with a regretful sigh prepared to pass on.

It was just at that moment that a number of people began to stream
forward from the stocking counter in the direction of Millinery. To do
this they had to pass the girl in the tweed coat. She became entangled
amongst them. Miss Silver watched with interest and attention. The
attention became very alert. She saw the girl in the tweed coat
disengage herself and move in the direction of the handkerchief counter.
Miss Silver observed a small dark woman in the group emerge upon the
other side of it and go up to the assistant behind the counter. She
appeared to say something in rather a hurried manner, after which she
hastened in the wake of her companions and was lost to view.

Miss Silver turned to receive her parcel and her change. She then
hurried in the direction of Handkerchiefs. She was not in time. Dorinda
Brown, with an expression of astonishment upon her face, was being
shepherded down the aisle by a very imposing shopwalker. As they turned
first to the left, and then to the right, and then to the left again,
this look changed to one of frowning intensity. She didn’t know what was
happening, but she didn’t like it. Why should she be asked to step round
to the manager’s office? She didn’t want to see him, and she could think
of no possible reason why he should want to see her.

They arrived at a door of marvellously polished wood, so bright that you
could see your face in it, and the next moment Dorinda was walking into
a very grand office with a large and quite bald-headed man sitting at a
table and looking coldly at her through horn-rimmed glasses, while a
voice from behind her said,

“Shoplifting, sir.”

A wave of indignant scarlet rushed right up to the roots of Dorinda’s
hair. You may have the sweetest temper in the world, but to be called a
thief by a perfectly strange shopwalker is just pure dynamite. The
temper went sky-high, and Dorinda stamped her foot and said,

“How dare you!”

The manager appeared to be completely unimpressed. He said in what
Dorinda considered a very offensive voice,

“Will you hand the things over, or will you be searched?”

The voice over the top of Dorinda’s head said,

“I expect they’ll be in the pockets of her coat.”

At this moment Miss Silver walked into the room without knocking—a
dowdy little woman who looked as if she might have been somebody’s
governess during the early years of the century. She wore a serviceable
black cloth coat which had only done two winters, and a little yellow
fur tippet of uncertain ancestry. Her hat, which had been new in the
autumn, was of the kind which looks the same age for about ten years and
then falls to pieces. It was made of black felt with a purple velvet
starfish in front and a niggle of black and purple ribbon running all
round the crown. Under the hat Miss Silver’s neatly coiled mousy hair
preserved the early Edwardian fashion. An Alexandra fringe in a net cage
surmounted her neat elderly features and the small greyish hazel eyes
which, according to Detective Sergeant Abbott of Scotland Yard, always
saw a little more than there was to see.

The manager’s horn-rimmed glasses were turned upon her in a petrifying
stare.

Miss Silver showed no sign of being petrified. With a slight
introductory cough she advanced to the edge of the table.

“Good-morning.”

“Madam, this is my private office.”

Miss Silver inclined her head with so much dignity that an awful doubt
entered the managerial mind. Dowdiness did not always imply poverty or a
lowly status. Sometimes the very wealthy or the very celebrated affected
it. There was a dowager duchess of dreadfully formidable character——

Miss Silver was saying, “If you will allow me——”

He stopped trying to place her and in quite a polite tone inquired her
business.

Miss Silver coughed again, graciously this time. No words had passed,
but there had been an apology. She accepted it. In the days, now happily
left behind, when she had been a governess, she had maintained a firm
but gentle discipline among her pupils. The habit persisted. The
authority was in her voice as she said,

“My name is Maud Silver. I was completing the purchase of some pink
wool, when I happened to witness the incident which has, I think,
resulted in this lady being requested to come into your office.”

“Indeed, madam?”

Dorinda turned her eyes upon the little woman in black. They burned with
indignation. Her colour burned too. She said in a young, clear voice,

“You couldn’t possibly have seen anything—there wasn’t anything to
see!”

Miss Silver met the indignant gaze with a steady one.

“If you will put your hands in your pockets you will, I think, see
reason to change your mind.”

Without an instant’s hesitation Dorinda drove both hands into the
pockets of her tweed coat. They were deep and capacious. They should
have been empty. They were not empty. The fact struck her a blow which
was as hard as it was unexpected. She felt as if she had missed a step
and come down in the dark. Her eyes widened, her colour rose brightly.
Her hands came up out of the pockets with a scatteration of stockings,
handkerchiefs, and ribbon.

The shopwalker said something, but it didn’t reach Dorinda. She stood
looking at the silk stockings, the handkerchiefs, the trailing ribbons,
whilst the bright angry colour in her cheeks drained away until it was
all gone. Then she stepped forward and put all the things down on the
table and felt again in the pockets of her coat. There was one more pair
of stockings, and the mimosa spray which she had thought would look so
nice on the lapel of her coat. She put it down with the other things and
said steadily,

“I don’t know how these things got into my pockets.”

The manager looked at her in a way that made her Scottish blood boil.

“Oh, you don’t, don’t you? Well, I think we can make a pretty good
guess. We shall charge you with shoplifting. And if this lady will
kindly give us her address, we can call her as a witness. Perhaps you
won’t mind saying what you saw, madam.”

Miss Silver drew herself up.

“I have come here to do so. After completing a purchase I was waiting
for my parcel and the change, when I saw this lady standing looking at
the display of glass flowers and necklets at the corner leading to the
millinery department. She seemed to be admiring that little bunch of
mimosa, and I thought perhaps she was going to buy it. It would
certainly have looked very well upon her coat. She was just about to
turn away, when a number of people came from the direction of the
stocking counter. I do not know whether they were all in one party. By
the time they reached her this lady had moved away from the place where
she had been. I should like to state quite definitely that the mimosa
spray was still in its place when she had moved at least a yard away
from it and was heading in the opposite direction. There were two young
women in the party from the stocking counter. They closed up on either
side of this lady. By this time there were quite a number of people
coming and going between the departments. Sometimes they were between me
and the two young women, and sometimes they were not. I am prepared to
swear that this lady never turned back, and that she could not possibly
have taken the mimosa spray. I was interested in her, and there was
never a time when I could not see at least the top of her head. She
could not have reached the mimosa spray from where she was, and she did
not turn back. That is the first point. The second one is this. As the
people moved on, there were naturally gaps between them. Through one
such gap I saw one of the two young women I have mentioned in the act of
withdrawing her hand from this lady’s coat pocket. At this moment the
attendant at the wool stall offered me my parcel and the change I had
been waiting for. I saw the young women say something to an assistant
behind the counter and hurry away. By the time I had taken my parcel
there were a good many people between us. When I arrived at the counter
both young women had disappeared and the assistant was making a somewhat
agitated communication to the shopwalker. I noticed that the mimosa
spray was gone. When I saw the shopwalker address this lady, who was by
then approaching the handkerchief counter, I realized that my evidence
would be required and decided to follow them.”

The manager was leaning back in his chair. He said in a sceptical voice,

“You say you saw a young woman put her hand into this girl’s pocket?”

Miss Silver coughed in a hortatory manner.

“I stated that I saw her in the act of withdrawing her hand from this
lady’s pocket. I am perfectly prepared to swear to what I saw.”

The manager raised his eyebrows.

“Very convenient for the young woman, I am sure. Quite a good idea, if
you’re going shoplifting, to have someone handy to swear you couldn’t
have done it.”

Miss Silver turned upon him the look before which the hardiest of her
pupils had been wont to quail. It was a look which had daunted the
evil-doer on many an occasion. Since then Chief Detective Inspector Lamb
himself had been halted by it and brought to unwilling apology. It went
straight through the manager’s self-esteem and stripped him to his bare
bones. He found them chilly and uncertain of their footing. When you
have been kept together by conventions and clothed with observances, it
is very disintegrating to be left without them.

“I beg your pardon,” said Miss Maud Silver.

The manager found himself apologizing. She had spoken quite quietly, and
he knew now that she was neither an eccentric duchess nor any lesser
member of the aristocracy. But the authority behind that quiet tone had
him rattled. He paused in his not very well chosen phrases and
discovered that he was being addressed. He had the quite unwarranted
feeling that he was being addressed from a platform. He had the unusual
feeling of being something rather lowly in the scale of creation.

Miss Silver treated this frame of mind with firmness.

“You would, perhaps, care for me to furnish you with proofs of my
credibility as a witness. This is my business card.”

From the shabby black bag which depended from her left wrist she
produced and laid before him a small, neat pasteboard rectangle. It
displayed her name in the middle—Miss Maud Silver, with, in the
left-hand bottom corner, an address, 15 Montague Mansions, S.W., and in
the corresponding right-hand corner, the words, Private Enquiries.

As he absorbed this information, Miss Silver continued to address him.

“If you will be so good as to ring up Scotland Yard, Chief Detective
Inspector Lamb will tell you that he knows me well, and that I am a
person to be believed. Detective Sergeant Abbott, or in fact any of the
officers on the detective side, will be able to assure you that I have
the confidence of the police. If, of course, you are prepared to admit
that a mistake has been made, and to offer to this young lady an
unqualified apology, we need not trouble Scotland Yard.”

The manager, thus baited, turned with ferocity upon the shopwalker. His
diminished ego obtained some helpful support from having a subordinate
at hand to bully.

“Mr. Sopeley!”

“Sir?”

“On what evidence did you act? This lady says that one of the assistants
came up and spoke to you. Who was it, and what did she say?”

Mr. Sopeley began to see before him the unenviable role of the
scapegoat. An elderly survivor of the war period, his tenure was not so
secure that he could afford to have it shaken. With a feeling that his
collar had suddenly become too tight for him, he stumbled into speech.

“It—it was Miss Anderson. She said a lady had whispered to her that
this—” he paused and swallowed—“this young lady was filling her
pockets, and she thought she ought to mention it.”

“Then why is she not here as a witness?”

“She said she had a train to catch,” said Mr. Sopeley in an ebbing
voice.

The manager’s bald head became suffused with an angry flush.

“Miss Anderson should have detained her.”

Perceiving a possible ram in a thicket, Mr. Sopeley agreed that Miss
Anderson had been very remiss, though just how she could have detained a
determined customer in full flight to catch a train, neither he nor the
manager was prepared to say. In a tone of virtuous indignation he
remarked,

“I spoke to her quite severely on that point, sir.”

Miss Silver intervened.

“It is perfectly clear that this woman who brought the accusation and
then disappeared is the person who placed the stolen goods in this young
lady’s pockets. I would press you now to ring up Scotland Yard. A full
and unqualified apology is due to this young lady, and I shall not be
satisfied until it has been offered.”

Chief Detective Inspector Lamb lifted the receiver from the instrument
on his office table. The voice of Sergeant Abbott came to him.

“I say, Chief, here’s a lark! I’ve got the manager of the De Luxe Stores
on the line, wanting to know if Maudie is a credible witness! He’s
asking for you. An offensive fellow—perhaps you’d like to crush him
yourself.”

Lamb grunted.

“What’s it all about?”

“Case of shoplifting. Maudie says the girl was framed. Says she saw a
woman put a hand into her pocket, afterwards skipping to an assistant to
lay information, and then vanishing from the scene to catch a train.
Shall I put you through?”

Lamb’s grunt must have conveyed assent. It was followed by a click and
the impact on his ear of a voice which he thoroughly disliked. A shrewd
and experienced observer of human nature, he deduced the man who has
made a bloomer and is trying to bluster his way out. He stemmed the
current by announcing himself.

“Chief Detective Inspector Lamb speaking.” Every syllable slowly and
ponderously fraught with authority.

The manager had to begin all over again, and didn’t like it. He began to
wish that he had apologized to Dorinda Brown and left Scotland Yard
alone.

The Chief Inspector stopped him before he had got very far.

“I have nothing to do with what happened in your shop. If you wish to
charge anyone, it is a matter for the local station. In so far as your
inquiries relate to Miss Maud Silver, I am prepared to deal with them. I
know her very well and can assure you that she is an entirely credible
witness. She has been of great use to the police on many occasions, and
if I may say so, you would be well advised to be guided by her opinion.
If she says this girl is innocent, you’d better believe her—she knows
what she’s talking about. One moment—I will speak to her, just to make
sure of her identity.”

In the manager’s office Miss Silver took up the receiver with a
preliminary cough.

“Chief Inspector Lamb? How very pleasant to hear your voice! You are
well, I hope? ... And Mrs. Lamb? ... And the daughters?”

When the compliments were over Lamb was pleased to relax into a chuckle.

“What have you been up to?”

“My dear Chief Inspector!”

The chuckle became a laugh.

“Had to come to the police to get you out of it—eh? Now, you know,
that’s very pleasant for us, isn’t it?”

“I am always quite certain that I can rely upon you,” said Miss Silver
gravely. She handed the receiver back to the manager, whose bald head
had now assumed the colour of a beetroot, and stepped back.

Made aware of the change, Lamb said briskly and ungrammatically,

“There’s only one Miss Silver, and that’s her all right.”




                                  VIII


Justin Leigh was a little puzzled by his Dorinda. She had remembered to
wear clothes which he had once commended. She appeared to be in perfect
health, and she seemed to be extremely pleased to see him. But all the
same, there was something. Her attention wavered, and he missed the zest
which should have accompanied the selection of a furbelow at somebody
else’s expense. Mrs. Oakley’s ideas on the subject of what should be
paid for an evening frock seemed to be thoroughly sound.

Dorinda, who had never scaled such giddy heights, ought to have been
leaping from peak to peak with carefree enthusiasm, instead of which she
remained aloof. It wasn’t until The Dress had been extracted from some
inner shrine and reverentially displayed that she seemed to be taking
any interest at all.

The Dress had a compelling effect. She said “Oh!” and her colour rose.
Justin remarked that she had better try it on, and she retired to do so.

When she came out in it there were of course no doubts. It was It. It
had that magic touch so impossible to describe. It moulded, and it
flowed. It was dead plain. By some subtle art the unrelieved black made
her hair look richer than gold. It brightened her eyes, it brightened
her skin.

Justin said in rather an odd tone,

“That’s the ticket. Go and take it off, or there won’t be time to have
any lunch.”

When the dress had been packed up and a vast sum paid for it, they took
it away with them.

Justin had found a new place for lunch, their table pleasantly retired
in a shallow recess. It being now possible to converse, he looked at her
very directly and said,

“What’s the matter?”

He was a good deal concerned when she turned very pale and said with a
shake in her voice,

“I nearly got arrested for shoplifting.”

Concern became something more as she poured it all out.

“If it hadn’t been for Miss Silver, they would have arrested me. It’s
given me the most frightful sort of giddy feeling—like thinking you’re
on quite an ordinary path, and all of a sudden your foot goes down and
there isn’t anything there. I expect you’ve done it in dreams—I have,
often. But it’s never happened when I was awake—not till this morning.”

When the waiter had come and gone he made her tell it all over again.

“Had you ever seen any of those people before?”

“No. Miss Silver wanted to know about that. We went and had coffee
together after they had apologised. She’s a marvel. She knows everyone
at Scotland Yard, so of course they had to listen to her.”

Justin pricked his ears.

“Maud Silver—I know her name—now where? ... Of course! She’s Frank
Abbott’s Revered Preceptress!”

“Is that what he calls her?”

“When it isn’t Maudie the Mascot. In spite of which, if there is anyone
on this earth for whom he has a terrific respect, it is Miss Maud
Silver.”

“She simply flattened that awful manager.” The memory cheered her a good
deal. “But, Justin, she said was there anyone who would like to get me
into trouble, or get me out of the way, and of course I said no. Because
it couldn’t—it simply couldn’t have anything to do with the Wicked
Uncle—could it?”

“What do you mean?”

“Well, there was a photograph of him all crumpled up in Marty’s
toy-cupboard.”

“Dorinda!”

She nodded.

“Well, there was. It was the twin of the one Aunt Mary had—Charles
Rowbecker & Son, Norwood. And I put it on Mrs. Oakley’s writing-table,
and I didn’t say anything to her, and she didn’t say anything to me.
Justin—it couldn’t be that!”

He looked handsome and remote. A dreadful feeling that perhaps she was
boring him came over her. She said in a hurry,

“We needn’t go on talking about it.”

Still handsome but not so remote, he frowned and told her not to be
silly.

“But, Justin, you looked bored.”

“That’s just my unfortunate face. The brain was getting to work. Look
here, Dorinda—why did you go to that shop at all?”

“I had some things to do for Mrs. Oakley.”

“My good child, you’re not going to tell me that Martin Oakley’s wife
shops at the De Luxe Stores! Modes for the Million, and a Brighter and
Better Bourgeoisie!”

Dorinda giggled.

“Not for herself, she doesn’t. But someone told her they’d got luminous
paint, so she told me to go there and see. Because Marty’s got his old
nurse back and she isn’t a bit pleased because he’s been allowed to chip
all the stuff off the night-nursery clock and she can’t see what time it
is when she wakes up in the dark. So I was to go there and see if I
could get some.”

“Who knew that you were going there?”

“Well, Mrs. Oakley—and Nurse—and Doris, who is the girl who does the
nurseries—and—well, I should think practically everyone else in the
house, because Marty kept telling everyone I was going to buy him some
shiny paint because he had been a _very_ naughty boy and had scraped it
off the clock. And every time he said it Nurse came in with how
difficult it was to get, but she did hear they had some at the De Luxe
Stores. But I don’t know who told her.”

Justin’s frown deepened.

“If that was a frame-up, it was arranged by someone who knew you were
going to the damned shop. Are you sure you had never seen anyone in that
crowd before?”

Dorinda shook her head.

“Oh, no, I hadn’t.”

“Well, it doesn’t sound as if it could have been a case of having to get
rid of the stuff because the thief was under suspicion. She would never
have risked speaking to the assistant if it had been like that. Look
here, I don’t like it. I think you’d better clear out of this job. You
can ring Mrs. Oakley up and say that an acute family crisis has arisen,
and that you have been called to your Aunt Jemima’s death-bed.”

“Justin, I couldn’t. Even if she didn’t know—and she does—that I
haven’t got an aunt in the world, I couldn’t possibly. I’ve just spent
thirty pounds of her money on a dress, and I’ve got to work it out.”

Justin looked angrier than she had ever seen him.

“You can take the damned thing back!”

“They wouldn’t give me the money,” said Dorinda with conviction. “They’d
just say they would put it to Modom’s credit, and that wouldn’t be any
use at all, because Mrs. Oakley wouldn’t shop there for herself—she
told me so. She said they had very nice inexpensive little frocks for
girls, but of course she had to pay a great deal more for her own
things. So you see, I can’t possibly.”

Justin leaned across the table.

“Dorinda—let me lend you the thirty pounds.”

Gratitude made Dorinda’s eyes look exactly like peat-water with the sun
on it.

“I think that’s absolutely noble of you. But of course I can’t let you.”

“You must.”

“Darling, I can’t. Aunt Mary would get right up and haunt me. It was one
of her very strictest things—never let a man speak to you unless he’s
introduced, never let a man pay your debts, never let a man lend you
money. And when you’ve had that sort of thing soaked into you for as
long as you can remember, you just _can’t_—not even if you try.”

“Relations are quite different,” said Justin.

Dorinda shook her head.

“Not when they’re men. Aunt Mary had a special thing about cousins. She
said they were insidious.”

Justin burst out laughing, which relieved the emotional strain. Just why
there should have been a strain, he wasn’t clear. He had felt angrier
than he could remember to have done for quite a long time, and when
Dorinda began to be obstinate an urge out of a neolithic past had
suggested to him how pleasant it would be to knock her over the head and
drag her to a cave by the hair. The suggestion did not, of course,
arrive in words, but this was what it amounted to.

The laughter carried it away, but Dorinda’s obstinacy remained. She
wanted to keep her job, she wanted to keep her thirty-pound dress, she
didn’t want to go back to the Heather Club, and she was thrilled through
and through because of Justin being really angry and really interested.
It wasn’t Aunt Mary who had told her that a man only scolds a woman when
he is fond of her. It was Judith Crane, the girl who had annoyed the old
ladies at the Heather Club by having so many baths and going out with so
many young men. One way and another Dorinda had learned quite a lot from
Judith Crane. Aunt Mary’s foundation-laying had been very solid and
sound, but the lighter touches had been wanting, and having suffered
from a Wicked Uncle had, perhaps naturally, given her a poor view of
men. They had to be, but the less you had to do with them the better for
your peace of mind.

With all this at the back of her thought, Dorinda continued to glow with
gratitude and to say no to the thirty pounds. She also ate a very good
lunch and recurred at intervals to the subject of Miss Maud Silver.

“She gave me her card, and she said if I had any more trouble to let her
know at once. I told her I couldn’t pay a fee or anything like that, and
she said it didn’t matter—just to let her know. Justin, she’s rather a
pet. She patted my hand, and she said, ‘My dear, there was a time when I
was a young girl earning my living in other people’s houses. I have so
much to be grateful for that I like to pay a little of the debt when I
can.’ ”

In the end Justin gave up. He had something to give Dorinda, and if he
wrangled with her up to the last moment, the atmosphere would be all
wrong. Not that there was any wrangling on Dorinda’s side. She just
glowed, and called him darling, and went on saying no. He began to feel
that he must be making a fool of himself. What he wanted for his little
presentation was the attitude of the kind, indulgent cousin, but he
didn’t find it easy to come by.

Dorinda gave him an opening by opining that she would just have time to
shop her rolled-gold safety-pin before she had to meet Mr. Oakley at his
office. Justin dived into his pocket and produced something in an
envelope.

“This will look nicer than a safety-pin—at least I hope you’ll think
so. It belonged to my mother.”

“Oh, Justin!” Her colour changed brightly.

Inside the envelope was a shabby little brown leather case, and inside
the case, on a background of ivory velvet which had turned as yellow as
the keys of an old piano, there was a shining brooch. Dorinda gazed at
it and felt quite unable to speak. The interlaced double circle of small
bright diamonds caught the light. She lifted swimming eyes to Justin’s
face.

“You like it?”

She took a long breath.

“It’s much too lovely!”

“Put it on.”

Half way to her throat her hands remained suspended.

“Justin—you oughtn’t to—I mean I oughtn’t to take it. If it was your
mother’s, oughtn’t you to keep it? Because when you get married——” She
stopped there, because the idea of Justin getting married hurt so
frightfully that she couldn’t go on.

There was a curious emotional moment. Justin looked at her gravely and
said,

“What sort of girl do you think I ought to marry?”

It was of course quite easy to answer this, though it hurt like knives
and daggers. Dorinda had always known exactly the sort of girl that
Justin would marry, and within the last few months, from being a type,
this girl had become someone with a name. Dorinda had seen her
photograph in a gossipy weekly—“Mr. Justin Leigh and Miss Moira Lane”.
She cut out the picture and kept it, and one day when she was feeling
extra brave she asked Justin “Who is Moira Lane?” and got a frown and a
casual “Oh, just a girl I know.” After that she saw them together once
or twice—at lunch when she was out with Tip, and at the theatre with
Buzzer. Moira Lane always looked just the same—as if she knew exactly
what to do and how to do it. She was very, very decorative of course,
but she might have been that and yet all wrong for Justin. It was that
look of being dead right and dead sure of being right which ran the
splinter of ice into Dorinda’s heart. She laid the brooch back on its
ivory bed and began to draw strokes on the tablecloth with the tip of
her finger.

“Tall, and of course very, very slim, only not thin—you don’t like thin
girls, do you? And perhaps very fair hair—only I don’t know that that
matters very much as long as it’s beautifully done. And very, very
smart, with all the right clothes, and knowing just where to get
them—and what you do and what you don’t do, and just the right kind of
make-up, and when a thing’s dead and you just can’t be seen with it any
more. Because, you know, all that sort of thing is very difficult unless
you’ve been brought up to it, only even then some people are much better
at it than others—and you’d have to have someone who was _really_ good
at it.”

“Would I?”

“Oh, yes, Justin. Because you notice everything, and you can’t bear it
if there’s the least thing wrong. You like everything to be perfect, so
you would have to marry a girl who would never, never make a mistake.”

She pushed the little brown leather case across the table, not looking
at it, because her eyes never left his face. He picked it up and put it
down in front of her.

“She would probably think my mother’s brooch old-fashioned. I think I’d
rather you had it. Suppose you put it on.”

“Oh, Justin!”

“My darling child, don’t be ridiculous! I shouldn’t give it to you if I
didn’t want you to have it.... No, that’s not right—a little higher
up.... That will do.” He looked at his wrist watch and got up briskly.
“I shall have to fly. Be a good child. And continue to report progress.”




                                   IX


Mrs. Oakley had been wishing all the morning that she hadn’t sent
Dorinda up to town. Any of the three houses to which she had directed
her would have been only too pleased to send down a selection of
suitable frocks in response to a request from Mrs. Martin Oakley. And
the De Luxe Stores could have been rung up. There was nothing else that
couldn’t have waited. As it was, she was going to be alone all day.
Martin wouldn’t be down till four o’clock at the very earliest, because
Dorinda was only to meet him at half past two, and that meant he
wouldn’t get started till three, and it might be much later than that.
Things always seemed to turn up at the last moment in offices.

Her ideas about Martin’s office were rather mingled. She hated it
because it took him away from her, but if he didn’t go to it there
wouldn’t be any money, and she would hate it if there weren’t any money.
There had been a time in her life when there had been first very little
money, and then no money at all. There had been only one room, and there
hadn’t always been enough to eat. She had had to try and clean the room
herself, with the result that her hands became exceedingly dirty and the
room didn’t seem to get any cleaner. She had had to try to cook, but the
results wouldn’t bear thinking about. For years she had never let
herself think about that time, but today she couldn’t help it. The
dreadful sordid memories came crowding into her mind. It was like having
a lot of dirty tramps in her nice clean house. They went everywhere, and
did just what they liked. They had kept her awake in the night, and when
she slept they had walked in and out of her dreams.

She oughtn’t to have let Dorinda go. There were quite a lot of things
they could have done together. There were all those patterns for the new
curtains and covers for the drawing-room—they could have had them out
and looked at them. It would have taken the best part of the morning.
After lunch Dorinda could have read to her or talked to her, and by
tea-time she could have been looking forward to Martin’s arrival.
Whereas now there was the whole empty, dragging day with no one to talk
to. Nurse didn’t really care about her coming into the nursery. She was
very polite, but she and Marty always gave her the feeling that she was
interrupting something. She could feel them going back to it with relief
almost before she was out of the room. If her new maid had been
different, the morning could have been got through quite easily. She had
a lot of clothes and it would have been quite interesting to talk to
Hooper about them. The trouble was that Hooper wouldn’t talk. She knew
her duties, and she knew how to carry them out, but that was as far as
it went. She said, “Yes, madam,” and she said, “No, madam,” and if she
had to say more than that she cut it as short as possible.

In Dorinda’s absence Hooper had to answer the telephone when the bell
rang just before lunch.

“Mr. Porlock, madam.”

“Ask what he wants, Hooper. He knows I don’t come to the telephone.”

After a pause Hooper’s wooden face was turned towards her again.

“He asks to see you, madam—an important message for Mr. Oakley. He says
he will call at two o’clock.”

Mrs. Oakley sounded a little fluttered.

“But I ought to be resting—I did not sleep at all well last night. Tell
him—tell him—that Mr. Oakley ought to be here by half past four——”

Hooper was replacing the receiver.

“Mr. Porlock have hung up, madam.”

At two o’clock precisely Gregory Porlock rang the front door bell at the
Mill House. Both as a bell and as an expensive if mistaken piece of
workmanship, it could fairly be described as loud. He could actually
hear it ringing, just as he could presently hear the footsteps of the
butler coming to let him in.

Mrs. Oakley, it appeared, would see him upstairs in her own
sitting-room. He was conducted by way of a massive staircase and a
landing where a buhl cabinet contained some remarkably ugly china to a
corridor at the end of which a door was thrown open and he was
announced.

“Mr. Gregory Porlock——”

Mrs. Oakley looked up from the book which she hadn’t been reading, to
see a big man in brown country tweeds. He had a handkerchief up to his
face—a brown silk handkerchief with a green and yellow pattern on it.
And then the door shut behind him. His hand with the handkerchief in it
dropped to his side, and she saw that it was Glen. She was so frightened
that though she opened her mouth to scream nothing happened, because she
hadn’t any breath to scream with. She just sat there staring at him with
the whites of her eyes showing and her mouth like a pale stretched O.

Gregory Porlock put his handkerchief away and mentally commended his
luck. She might have screamed before the butler was out of earshot. He
had just had to chance it. She wouldn’t come to the telephone, and the
one maxim of behaviour which he regarded as sacrosanct was, “Never put
anything on paper.”

He came and sat in the opposite corner of the sofa, after which he put
out his hand and said in a pleasant conversational voice,

“Well, Linnet, I thought it would be you, but I had to make sure. It
wouldn’t have done to have you arriving with Martin to dinner on
Saturday and staging a great recognition scene right in front of
everyone.”

As she continued to gaze at him in frozen horror, he took her by the
hand.

“My dear girl, pull yourself together! I’m not going to eat you.”

Perhaps it was the warm, virile clasp and the dancing light in the dark
eyes, perhaps it was the memories which these evoked. Her gaze wavered.
She gave a sort of gasp and said,

“I thought you were dead—oh, Glen!”

Gregory Porlock nodded.

“I don’t look dead—do I? Or feel dead either.”

He had both of her hands by now, and he could feel them quivering and
jerking like two little frightened wild things. He kept his hold of them
and said,

“Come along, wake up! There’s nothing for you to get into a state about.
I don’t want to hurt you, or to dig up the past. Everything suits me
well enough the way it is. You wouldn’t have seen hair, hide, or hoof of
me if it hadn’t been that Martin and I are in on a business deal
together, so I knew we’d be bound to meet, and I thought we’d better get
it over in private.”

Even the weakest creature will fight when it has everything to lose.
Linnet Oakley freed her hands with a sudden jerk.

“Why did you go away and let me think you were dead?”

“My dear child, what a question! I had a chance and I took it. We were
just about down to bedrock bottom, weren’t we? One of the most
unpleasant sections of a not uneventful life—there was really nothing
to be gained by prolonging it.”

She said, “You didn’t think what might happen to me.”

Gregory Porlock laughed.

“On the contrary, my dear, I was quite sure that my Linnet would find a
new perch. And so she did—a much better, firmer, more substantial
perch. How does the song go?

    ‘She’s a beautiful something, something,
    In a beautiful gilded cage.’ ”

Linnet Oakley hit out like a bird pecking. He laughed again.

“Oh, stop being silly! I know it’s hard for you, but we haven’t got all
day. Get this into your head and keep it there. Seven years ago you were
seven years younger than you are today, and about ten years prettier.
When I faded out and you very sensibly made up your mind to consider me
dead, you could be quite sure of that new perch I spoke about. If you do
anything silly now and forfeit your present very comfortable position, I
don’t quite see what’s going to become of you. Don’t look so
frightened—there’s no reason at all why you shouldn’t go on just as you
are. I suppose you told Martin that you were a widow?”

She had begun to cry.

“I thought I was—I thought you were dead——”

The dancing eyes laughed into hers.

“I’m afraid the brutal courts in this country rather expect a death
certificate. Naturally you hoped that I had perished, because it was
going to be so very convenient for you to marry Martin. But it was
rather a case of the wish being father to the thought, and I’ve got a
feeling that the courts wouldn’t be very sympathetic about it. Let me
see—how long had you been hoping I was dead before you married
Martin—six months? ... Oh, nine? Well, I don’t say that I should have
expected to be mourned for longer than that. But the law is so
conventional that I’m afraid it takes rather a poor view of bigamy.”

He wondered whether he had pushed her too far, because she did scream
then. It wasn’t a loud scream—too frightened for that—but a scream of
any kind is quite a difficult thing to explain away. He changed his
bantering tone to a frank and simple one.

“Look here, Linnet, you don’t have to be frightened of me. I don’t want
a show-down any more than you do—it wouldn’t suit my business plans. Of
course I haven’t broken the law, and you have. But I don’t want my plans
upset, so I’ve no reason to want to upset your marriage. You’ve got a
boy, haven’t you?”

She looked at him with a new terror in her eyes.

“Oh—_Marty_——”

“All right, all right—nobody’s going to hurt him. Now you listen to me!
Do you think you can hold your tongue?”

“Oh, yes——”

“Well, I shouldn’t suppose you could for a moment if it were about
anything else. But with everything you’ve got in this world at stake,
you will at any rate try. No sobbing it all out on Martin’s shoulder,
because if you do, he’ll put you out in the street and I’ll put you in
court for bigamy. The first word you say to him or to anyone, you’re for
it. Have you got that?”

“Yes, Glen——”

“And don’t you go calling me Glen, or you’ll do it by mistake one day.
Remember my name’s Gregory Porlock, and my friends call me Greg. You’d
better start thinking about me as Greg and talking about me as Greg
until it comes natural and you don’t want to do anything else. And for
any sake stop looking as if I was going to murder you!”

She did look just like that—like a creature that sees the knife coming
nearer and knows there is no help—every muscle strained and taut, the
fixed terror in the eyes. There was a sick wincing every time any
movement brought him nearer. He made such a movement now, reaching
forward to pat her on the shoulder.

“My dear girl, you never did have much in the way of brains, but if
you’ll just take a pull on yourself and listen to what I’m going to say
you ought to be able to take it in, and once you’ve got hold of it
you’ll feel a whole lot better. Now listen! I don’t want to upset your
marriage to Martin Oakley. Got that?”

She gave a brief shaky nod.

“Well, hold on to it! There’s no need for anyone to know we’ve ever met
before. If you hold your tongue, I’ll hold mine. If you go blabbing to
Martin, or to any other living soul, the bargain’s off, because the
minute anyone knows, I shall be bound to take proceedings. Got that?”

Another of those trembling nods.

“It’s a bargain which is entirely in your favour. You keep Martin and
Martin’s money, you keep your position and reputation, you keep your
child and you keep out of prison. It’s quite a lot—isn’t it? In return
I only ask you to do two things. The first is to hold your tongue. It
will be quite interesting to see if you can do it. The second——” He
paused, looking at her with smiling intensity.

Some of the terror had left her. It was like a pain which has ebbed, but
which may begin again at any moment. As he sat back in his sofa corner
and looked at her in that smiling way, she felt the preliminary stab.

“Listen, Linnet! The second thing is something I want you to do for me.
It’s quite simple and easy, and when you’ve done it I won’t bother you
any more. Martin and I are in a business deal together. Naturally each
of us has his own interest to think of. Now it would be to my advantage
if I knew something which Martin knows. When he comes down this
afternoon he will have some papers with him which I very much want to
see. They’ll be in his attaché case and I want to have a look at them.”

“I can’t—I can’t—I can’t!”

“Now what’s the use of saying that? It’s as easy as kissing your hand.
When Martin goes to dress for dinner, where does he generally put that
case of his?”

“In the study. But I can’t—and the case is locked——”

“The study—that’s the room under this?”

“But I can’t!”

“My dear Linnet, I don’t want to lose my temper, but if you go on with
these senseless repetitions I probably shall, and then you won’t like
it. You never did, did you?”

She shuddered from head to foot. The past came up in small, bright
pictures, quite clear, quite dreadful, quite terrifying. No one who
hadn’t seen Glen lose his temper could possibly believe how dreadful it
was.

He laughed.

“All right. You do what you’re told and there won’t be any
unpleasantness. This is what you’ve got to do. While Martin is dressing
you’ll take that case with the papers in it and put it outside the study
window on the window-sill, and you’ll leave the window unlatched. Now
that’s absolutely all I’m asking you to do. It won’t take half a minute,
and there’s no risk about it at all. The case will be back again on the
study table before you’ve finished your dinner, and Martin will never
know it’s been out of the house. If you feel like wandering in and
fastening the window any time after ten o’clock, it wouldn’t be at all a
bad thing.”

She said in a dreadfully frightened voice,

“I can’t do it——”

“Quite easy, you know.”

Her hands twisted in her lap.

“I know I’m stupid about money, but I’m not as stupid as you think. If I
let you see those papers, you’ll be making money, and Martin will be
losing it.”

“Perfectly correct. Quite a lot of money too. Now just go on being
intelligent for a moment. How much do you think Martin would pay to save
your reputation and keep you out of the dock? To say nothing about
saving his son from being publicly exposed as illegitimate. I should
have said he would put his hand pretty deep into his pocket. He’s fond
of you, isn’t he?”

“Oh, yes——”

“And of the boy?”

“Oh, Glen!”

“If you call me Glen, I really will murder you! Just let’s have that
again, and make it ‘Oh, Greg!’ ”

She repeated it in a terrified whisper.

“That’s better! Well now, this sum of money is what Martin is going to
pay to keep his wife, his son, and his peace of mind. Do you think he’d
grudge it if he knew? You know he wouldn’t—not if it was twice as much.
Do you know, like a more famous adventurer, I really am surprised at my
own moderation.”

Linnet Oakley gazed at him. She would have to do it—she had known that
all along—she couldn’t hold out against Glen. She couldn’t lose Martin.
And she _couldn’t_ go to prison. Martin wouldn’t want her to go to
prison. He would pay anything for her, or for Marty. It didn’t really
matter about the money. She said in a yielding voice,

“If I do it, will you promise—will you really, really promise that
Martin won’t know?”

Gregory Porlock laughed heartily.

“My dear, I should think even you would see that I’m not likely to want
Martin to know!”




                                   X


Dorinda had a perfectly silent drive down to the Mill House. Martin
Oakley sat in front beside the chauffeur and never uttered. She had the
back to herself, with a cushion to tuck into the corner, and a lovely
warm rug. As she watched the streets and the people slipping by she had
at least one cause for gratitude. Martin Oakley certainly wasn’t the
Wicked Uncle. He was just Marty grown up and become a very successful
business man. There was the sallow skin, the brooding look which meant
mischief when Marty had it, the same quick twitching frown. Not,
however, the same flow of conversation, which was an added reason for
being grateful.

Dorinda felt very glad indeed that she hadn’t let Justin drag her out of
what promised to be a comfortable job. Even in her short experience it
had occurred to her that an aloof and silent employer might be worth his
weight in gold. So many of them seemed to be afflicted with a coming-on
disposition. She told herself that she was in luck’s way, and that it
wasn’t any good Justin saying things, because there were a lot of girls
wanting jobs just now, and if you had got a reasonably good one you
would be a fool not to stick to it.

Her fingers went up to Justin’s brooch. When she had taken it off and
looked at it, and put it on again, she felt all warm and glowing. It was
wonderful of him to give it to her. She hadn’t thanked him a bit
properly, because she had had a dreadful feeling that she might be going
to burst into tears. She couldn’t imagine anything that Justin would
mind more than having you burst into tears in a public restaurant—it
was the sort of thing you would simply never live down. So she hadn’t
really dared to speak. She began to plan a letter to write to him after
tea.

When she came to write it she didn’t seem able to get it down the way
she had planned it. She wasted quite a lot of paper and quite a lot of
time. In the end she wrote slapdash fashion without stopping to think:

    “Justin, I wasn’t ungrateful. I do hope you didn’t think I was.
    I’ve never had such a lovely present. I truly love it. I was
    afraid I was going to cry because it was so lovely, and if I
    had, you wouldn’t ever have wanted to speak to me again.

                                             Your loving Dorinda.

    P.S.—Mrs. Oakley likes the dress.

    P.P.S.—Mr. Oakley isn’t a bit like the Wicked Uncle. So far the
    only thing he has said to me is ‘How do you do, Miss Brown?’ But
    that’s better than being the other sort.

    P.P.P.S.—I do love my brooch.”

When she had finished she changed into her blue dress, but with an
uncertain feeling, because she didn’t know whether she was to dine with
the Oakleys when Martin Oakley was there or not. She had asked of
course, but Mrs. Oakley had merely looked vague and said it would depend
on Martin. There was an uncomfortable sense of being on approval, and
she felt a passionate preference for a tray in her sitting-room. That
was something she hadn’t told Justin. She turned back to the letter and
added a fourth postscript:

“I’ve got a sitting-room of my own.”

It was across the passage from her bedroom, next to the nursery, on the
third floor. Except that the ceiling was lower, it was the same size and
shape as Mrs. Oakley’s boudoir, and it was quite comfortably furnished,
with an electric fire which she could turn on when she wanted to. It was
glowing red now and the room was beautifully warm. She thought it must
be immediately over the boudoir, but strange houses were difficult until
you got your bearings. She began to try and make them out. The boudoir
was at the end of a passage on the left, and so was this. She went to
the window, dividing the curtains and letting them fall to behind her so
as to cut off the light.

At first she couldn’t see anything at all. Like another curtain, the
darkness hung close up to the glass, but after a little it seemed to get
thinner, to melt away, to dissolve into a sort of glimmering dusk. The
sky was cloudy, as it had been all day, but somewhere behind the cloud
she thought the moon must be up, because now that her eyes had got
accustomed to the changed light she could see where the trees cut the
sky, and the dark line of the drive, and the gravelled square on which
the house stood. This window looked out to the side. Yes, that was the
boudoir window just below, and the study underneath that again. Mrs.
Oakley had told her she could go there and get herself a book if she
wanted to, and that is how she had described it—“At the end of the
passage, right underneath this room.” And “this room” was the boudoir.

She could see that there was a light in the boudoir. A faint rosy glow
came through the curtains. The study curtains were red. If there had
been a light behind them, she wondered whether it would have filtered
through to stain the dusk outside. Perhaps it wouldn’t. The curtains
were very thick scarlet velvet with deep pelmets, and the furniture all
chromium-plated tubes, except the desk, which was quite comfortable and
ordinary.

She was thinking she would get tired of those surgical-looking chairs
and all that scarlet leather, even with a black marble mantelpiece and a
black carpet to tone it down, when someone loomed up on the gravel
square. One minute he wasn’t there, and the next he was. She didn’t see
where he came from, she just saw him against the gravel because it was
lighter than he was. She couldn’t really see that it was a man, but it
never occurred to her for a moment that it wasn’t—something about the
outline, something about the way he moved—a quick, thrusting way. He
came right up to the study window and turned round and went back again.
There was hardly a check, there certainly wasn’t any pause. He went away
across the gravel square and over the edge on to the grass, where she
lost him. She thought it was very odd.

As she drew back into the lighted room, Doris came in with a tray.

“Mr. and Mrs. Oakley will be dining together, Miss Brown, so I’ve
brought your dinner up.”




                                   XI


Mr. and Miss Masterman were the first of Gregory Porlock’s guests to
arrive for the week-end. They were rather better than their word, for
having said that they would aim at four o’clock, they actually entered
the hall at the Grange as the clock struck half past three.

Gregory Porlock came to meet them with a good deal of warmth.

“My dear Miss Masterman! Now what would you like to do—a little rest
before tea? Do you know, I think that would be the thing for you, and
your brother and I can get our business over before anyone else arrives.
That will suit you, Masterman, won’t it? ... All right then. Gladys,
will you take Miss Masterman upstairs and see she has everything she
wants.” His genial laugh rang out. “I’m afraid that would be rather a
tall order for some of us—eh, Masterman?”

Miss Masterman, following a maid in a very becoming dark red uniform,
had no answering smile. Her handsome haggard face was stamped with
fatigue. She looked as if she had forgotten how to sleep. When Gladys
had left her in the comfortable, well appointed bedroom she walked
slowly towards the hearth, as if drawn by the warmth of the fire. She
had removed her gloves and had unfastened a rather shabby fur coat.
Gregory Porlock had noticed it as she came in—but Gregory Porlock
noticed everything. Standing like that, she felt the warmth of the fire
beat against the cold of her body. No, it wasn’t just her body that was
cold. It was something no fire could ever warm again.

There was a chintz-covered chair drawn up to the hearth. She sank down
on it and buried her face in her hands.

In the study Gregory Porlock was pouring out drinks.

“Glad you were able to make it early. More satisfactory to get the
business out of the way.”

Jeffrey Masterman resembled his sister rather strongly. No one seeing
them together could be in any doubt as to their relationship. Both were
tall, dark, and without quite enough flesh to cover their rather decided
bones. Of the two the brother was the better looking, the rather bold
cast of the family features being more suited to a man than to a woman.
Both had fine eyes and strong dark hair with a tendency to curl. Either
might have been just under or just over fifty years of age.

Masterman drank from his glass and set it down. If anyone had been
watching him very closely—shall we say as closely as Gregory
Porlock—it might have been observed that this simple action was rather
carefully controlled. In the result, no one could have said that the
hand which set the glass down had shaken—no one could have said for
certain whether it did not shake because it had no inclination to shake,
or because Masterman had not permitted it to do so. From the depths of a
comfortable chair he looked across at his host and said,

“My sister told me that you said you had found a satisfactory solution.
I should like to know what it is.”

Gregory laughed.

“I told her to say that you needn’t worry. I thought you might be having
rather a bad time. By the way, how much does she know?”

“Look here, Porlock, I resent that tone. The fact that someone with a
hideously suspicious mind thinks they can make money out of a perfectly
baseless charge does not entitle you to talk to me as if either I or my
sister were involved in anything of a—well, of a discreditable nature.”

Gregory Porlock finished his own glass, leaned forward, and put it back
on the table.

“My dear Masterman, of course not. A thousand apologies if I conveyed
any such meaning. But you see, my dear fellow, it isn’t a case of what
you say or I think. It’s a case of a witness who has just not quite
decided whether she will go to the police. If you don’t mind her
going—well, that’s that. But you know how it is, if you get pitch
thrown at you, some of it sticks.”

Jeffrey Masterman made an abrupt movement.

“Who is this woman?”

Gregory Porlock was lighting a cigarette. He waited till the smoke
curled up, and said casually,

“I’m going to tell you. In our previous very short conversation I
informed you that owing to an odd set of circumstances I had come into
possession of some rather curious evidence with regard to the death of
an elderly cousin of yours, Miss Mabel Ledbury. When I said that the
evidence was in my possession, I didn’t of course mean that literally.
What I meant was that I had been consulted by the person who said she
had this evidence. Well, of course when you hear a thing like that about
a friend you can do no less than let him know. I began to tell you about
it and we were interrupted. On receiving your note asking for a further
interview—really, my dear fellow, it was extremely incautious of you to
write—I thought it best to ring up and suggest your coming down here,
where we can, I hope, dispose of the whole thing in the most
satisfactory manner.”

Masterman reached for his glass, took another drink, and said,

“How?”

“That’s what I’m coming to. But before we go any further I had better
just remind you of what this woman says she saw. I think I told you that
she was lying in bed with a broken leg in an upper room in one of the
houses in the street next to yours. The backs of the houses in these two
streets look at each other across short strips of garden. Your cousin
occupied a room exactly opposite that in which this woman lay—I will
call her Annie. She had all the time in the world, lying there, and she
was deeply interested in her neighbours—she used to watch them through
a pair of opera glasses. She became especially interested in Miss Mabel
Ledbury, and she formed the impression that you were not being very kind
to her.”

“Ridiculous!”

“Miss Ledbury was not bedridden, but she spent most of her time in bed.
Sometimes she got up and pottered about the room. On several occasions
Annie saw her rummage in a biscuit tin and produce from under the
biscuits a long, folded legal-looking document. Annie says with the
glasses she could read the words Last Will and Testament plainly
endorsed upon the envelope.”

“What’s all this flapdoodle?” Jeffrey Masterman’s voice was a shade
higher than it should have been. He had not put down his glass again, he
sat holding it between his two hands.

Gregory Porlock’s black eyebrows lifted.

“My dear fellow, don’t you think you’d better just listen to what she’s
got to say? You can’t meet a thing in the dark—can you?”

“Oh, there’s more of it, is there?”

“Naturally, or I shouldn’t have troubled you. Annie says that on the
fourteenth of October last she saw you come into Miss Ledbury’s room,
Miss Ledbury being up in her dressing-gown sitting at the table by the
window with this paper which Annie says was a will in front of her. The
old lady was deaf, was she not? Annie says she didn’t seem to hear you
come in, or to know that you were there. She says you stood behind her
looking over her shoulder. And she says—if you’ll excuse my mentioning
it—that you looked like a devil. Women have a natural tendency to
melodrama—it compensates for the dullness of their lives.”

He paused with his eyes on Masterman’s rigid face and allowed a slight
deprecatory laugh to escape him.

“To continue with what Annie saw—really that would make a suggestive
headline, wouldn’t it? ‘What Annie Saw’. I can imagine its having quite
a wide appeal. She says Miss Ledbury turned round suddenly and saw you,
and that there was what she described as a scene—you very angry, Miss
Ledbury very much frightened, and you snatching the will and holding it
up out of her reach while she tried to get it back. She says you took
hold of the old lady by the shoulders and pushed her on to the bed, and
that then the door opened and your sister came in. You went out, taking
the will with you, and Miss Masterman did her best to sooth Miss Ledbury
down. When she had got her quiet she put on the light and drew the
curtains, so that Annie didn’t see any more. In the morning the milkman
brought the news that Miss Ledbury had been found dead in her bed. There
had been a doctor in attendance and he said it wasn’t unexpected, so
there wasn’t any fuss or any inquest. And when the will came to be
proved it left you and your sister sole legatees with a hundred thousand
pounds to divide. Annie went into hospital on the day of the funeral,
and she only came out about a month ago. When she heard that you and
Miss Masterman had come in for all the money she wondered what had
happened to the will she used to see the old lady looking at. Because
when you stood there reading it over her shoulder she didn’t think it
looked as if it was the sort of will under which you were going to
benefit to the tune of fifty thousand pounds. And then she remembered
that a friend of hers who used to come in and work for Miss Masterman
had told her about six months previously that the old lady up at the top
of the house had called her in one day when you and your sister were
out. She said she wanted her to witness a will, and she must go and find
someone else because there must be two witnesses, and she would give
them each a ten-shilling note for their trouble. So this Mrs. Wells ran
across the road to No. 17 where she knew the cook, and the two of them
saw Miss Ledbury sign a big paper, and she told them it was her will.”

There was a sound of breaking glass. Jeffrey Masterman’s grip upon the
tumbler he was holding had tightened in an involuntary jerk.

Gregory was all concern.

“My dear fellow—have you cut yourself?”

It appeared that he had not. There was no blood upon his hands. Some
glass to be picked up, a splash of whisky and soda to be wiped from a
trouser leg, and they were back at the point of what Annie might or
might not be going to say.

Masterman leaned forward.

“Of course the whole thing’s damned nonsense from beginning to end—a
pack of lies!”

“Naturally.”

“Blackmail—that’s what it is—blackmail!”

“Well, my dear fellow, if that’s what you think, the only advice I can
give you is to go straight to the police. I think the will under which
you inherited was several years old. If there wasn’t a later will, the
whole thing falls to the ground.”

Masterman stared past him.

“If there was another will, she destroyed it herself. Old women are
always making wills.”

“Was there another will?”

“There may have been. How do I know?”

Gregory Porlock whistled.

“That means there was. It’s awkward, you know.”

“It’s rank blackmail!” said Masterman violently.

“My dear fellow, she hasn’t asked you for a penny. She is engaged in a
struggle with her conscience. If she decides to go to the police——”

Masterman interrupted.

“How did she come to go to you?”

He received a slow, benignant smile.

“Too long a story to go into—far too long. Really a very curious chain
of circumstances. But very fortunate for you.”

“Was it?” Masterman’s voice was savage.

“Undoubtedly—or she might have gone to the police. There is a point at
which a woman’s conscience simply has to boil over. For the moment I
have, as it were, turned down the gas under the pot, but it may reach
boiling-point again.”

Masterman’s control broke. He swore vehemently. He cursed women in
general and Annie in particular, and finished by turning furiously upon
his host.

“You said the whole thing could be settled, damn you! And all you do is
to go on baiting me! You know as well as I do that I can’t go to the
police. However that sort of thing turns out, the mud sticks—you never
get clear of it!”

“And you couldn’t trust your sister in the witness-box—could you?”
Gregory Porlock’s voice was sympathetic. “A nervous type. And she won’t
touch the money—will she?”

Into a stricken silence Masterman’s voice came only just above a
whisper.

“Who said so?”

Gregory Porlock laughed.

“Her fur coat. If she was handling the money she’d have bought herself a
new one.” He let something like a groan go by and resumed briskly, “That
being that, we’d better get down to brass tacks. There really isn’t any
need to get in a flap. Neither of the two witnesses to that will are
going to think anything about it unless someone puts it into their
heads. Mrs. Wells has been away with a married daughter, and the cook at
No. 17 has left and gone back to the north where she came from. Annie
has devoted relations in Canada who have been begging her to join them
for years. If she were to go out to them with her passage paid and a
little something in her stocking foot, I have a feeling that her
conscience would simmer down. Change of air, you know—change of
scene—new interests—reunion with a loving family—I don’t suppose
she’d ever think about that will again. Of course you wouldn’t appear in
the matter at all. There wouldn’t be the slightest connection. She
hasn’t asked for anything, and she won’t know where the money comes
from. An unknown benefactor supplies a long-felt want and no questions
asked. I will see that her passage is taken and that she avails herself
of it.”

Jeffrey Masterman set his teeth and said,

“How much?”

“A thousand pounds.”




                                  XII


Mr. and Mrs. Tote and Moira Lane arrived in time for tea, Miss Lane very
tall and elegant, with brilliant eyes, a flashing smile, and
considerable charm.

Mrs. Tote presented as great a contrast as it was possible to imagine. A
very expensive fur coat having been shed, there appeared a wispy little
woman rather like a mouse, with scant grey hair twisted up into a
straggly knot behind. Do her hair any other way than she had done it
ever since she grew up Mrs. Tote would not. She brushed it neatly, and
she put in plenty of pins. It wasn’t her fault if the fur turban which
went with the coat was so heavy that it dragged the hair down. She
hadn’t wanted the fur turban. She would have liked a nice neat matron’s
hat in one of those light felts like she used to get when they had their
business in Clapham, before Albert made all that money. The turban made
her head ache, like a lot of the things that had happened since they got
rich. She would have been glad to take it off like that Miss Lane had
done with hers, pulling it off careless, and her hair all shining waves
underneath. She liked to see a girl with a nice head of hair, and fair
hair paid for dressing. Nice to be able just to pull off your hat like
that and feel sure that you were all right underneath. But of course not
suitable at her age, and the hairpins dropping out like they always did
all the way down in the car.

Moira Lane’s clear, light voice broke into Mrs. Tote’s reflections.
Gregory Porlock had just said, “Where’s your young man?” and Moira was
saying, “He won’t be a moment—he’s just putting the car away. Really
angel of you to let me bring him, Greg, because if you hadn’t, I’d have
had to come by train, and if there’s one thing that brings my sordid
stony-broke state home to me more than another, it is having to travel
third-class on this revolting line and grapple with my luggage at the
change, whereas if I can float from door to door in somebody’s car I get
the heavenly illusion of being not only solvent but more or less in the
class of the idle rich. So when I ran into Justin last night and found
he was positively dying to meet you—well, it all did seem too good to
be wasted, didn’t it?”

Gregory Porlock put a friendly hand on her shoulder.

“That’s all right, my dear. But—dying to meet me—why?”

Moira laughed.

“Well, to be quite accurate, it’s the Martin Oakleys he’s dying to meet.
Sorry if it’s a disappointment, but it’s all the same thing, isn’t
it?—Martin and you being the world’s buddies and all that.”

“Why does he want to meet Martin Oakley?”

She gave a slight impatient frown.

“Oh, some schoolgirl cousin umpteen times removed has just taken a job
there—secretary to his wife or something. Justin says he’s practically
her guardian, so he wants to meet them. Amusing when you know Justin.
I’m just wondering how ravishingly pretty she would have to be to make
him come over responsible.”

Gregory Porlock laughed.

“Well, you’ll be able to see for yourself in an hour or two, because the
Oakleys are dining here and I told them to bring her along.”

He moved away from her to make himself charming to Mrs. Tote.

Miss Masterman poured out tea with an exhausted air. There were very
good scones and home-made cakes, but the only one who did any justice to
them was Mrs. Tote. One of the things she didn’t like about being
fashionable was the miserable sort of tea people gave you in
London—little wafery curls of bread and butter, and the sort of
sandwich that wouldn’t keep a butterfly alive. She didn’t care whether
she ever had another late dinner, but she did like a good sit-down tea.
And here was Mr. Porlock giving her a little table to herself and
helping her to honey with her buttered scone.

When Justin Leigh came in he kept her company. Having missed lunch, he
was hungry enough to deal appreciatively with the excellent tea provided
by his host.

“Your cousin’s coming to dinner,” said Moira Lane. “No—I don’t eat tea.
It’s no use waving buns at me as if I was something in a zoo. What’s her
name?”

“Dorinda Brown.”

Moira’s elegant eyebrows rose.

“Bread-and-butter miss?”

Justin looked vague.

“I don’t know that you would call her that.”

She laughed.

“Why haven’t I ever met her? You’ve been keeping her up your sleeve. I’m
no good at shocks. You’d better break it to me—what is she really
like?”

Justin smiled suddenly,

“Nice,” he said, and reached for another bun.

When tea was over the party melted. The Mastermans disappeared. Moira
took Justin off to play snooker. Mrs. Tote went up to her room.

It was perhaps half an hour later that her husband joined her there, and
the first minute she set eyes on him she knew that there was something
wrong. A regular state—that’s what he had put himself into, and now she
would have to soothe him down, and as likely as not he’d be upset the
whole evening and not get his sleep at night. He was getting stouter,
Albert was, and it didn’t do him any good getting worked up, not with
his short neck and getting so red in the face. He quite banged the door
behind him as he came in, and began right away, saying he wouldn’t stand
it, not for nobody nor nothing.

“Now, Albert——”

“Don’t you ‘Now, Albert’ me, Mother, for I’m not in the mood to stand
it! I’ve had all I’m going to stand from anyone, and don’t you forget
it! And there’s others that had better not forget it neither!”

Dear, dear, Albert _was_ put about and no mistake! Mrs. Tote really
couldn’t remember to have seen him so upset about anything since Allie
ran off to marry Jimmy Wilson whose father had the next-door shop to
theirs in the old Clapham days. And of course Allie could have looked a
good deal higher, with all the money Albert had made in the war. But
there it was—you’re only young once, and when you’re young money
doesn’t seem to matter the way it does when you haven’t got anything
else. She remembered Allie standing up and saying all that to her
father.

“Jimmy’s good and he’s steady. He’s got a job, and I’m going to marry
him. We don’t want your money—we can make enough to keep ourselves.
We’d like to be friends, but if you won’t you won’t, and we’re getting
married anyhow.”

Well, of course Albert was terribly put about. And obstinate—more like
a mule than a man. Allie and Jimmy thought he’d come round, but she
never really thought so herself. Not even when the baby was born—though
how he could go on calling her Mother the way he did and never think
that if it hadn’t been for Allie he’d never have had any call to start
doing it.

She came back to Albert fairly shouting out that he wouldn’t stand it,
and prepared to be firm.

“Now then, what’s it all about?”

She didn’t say “Father”, because she never said it now—not since Allie
went and he wouldn’t have her name mentioned. You can’t be a father if
you haven’t got a child. She said,

“You’d better tell me what’s the matter, and not go walking up and down
like that—there’s no sense in it.”

Red in the face and breathing short, Albert began to use language. He
was still walking up and down, with an angry flounce when he had to turn
where the washstand brought him up on one side of the room and the
wardrobe on the other. Mrs. Tote put up with it for as long as she felt
she could. She didn’t approve of language, but if you didn’t let a man
swear when he was angry he might do worse. So she waited until she
thought he must have got rid of the worst of it before she said with
surprising firmness,

“Now, Albert, that’s quite enough. You come here and tell me what it’s
all about. Carrying on like that—you ought to be ashamed!”

He came, angry and glaring, to drop down on the couch beside her. The
rage wasn’t out of him, but he had a foreboding of what he would feel
like when it had gone—cold—empty—afraid. He had to talk to someone.
Emily was his wife. A good wife, but too fond of her own way. Obstinate.
But she didn’t talk—not about his affairs. It wasn’t every man that
could say that about his wife. He stared at her and said in a choked
sort of way,

“It’s blackmail. That’s what it is—blackmail——”

Mrs. Tote came straight to the point.

“Who’s blackmailing you?”

“That damned fellow Porlock.”

“And what have you been doing to get yourself blackmailed?”

His eyes avoided her—looked at the pink and purple flowers on the
chintz cover of the couch.

“Women don’t understand business—it’s a business matter.”

Emily Tote went on looking at him. He’d got himself into a mess—that’s
what he’d done. You can’t get rich all that quick and keep honest—she’d
known that all along. Terribly easy to go over the edge in business when
your mind was taken up with getting rich. She looked steadily at Albert,
and thanked God that Allie was out of it. She said,

“You’d better tell me.”

“He’s blackmailing me. Oh, it’s all wrapped up as clever as you please,
but it doesn’t take me in. Come to him by a side wind—that’s what he
says. Him saying he’ll fix it up for me—as if I didn’t know what that
meant! I may have been a fool, but I’m not such a fool as not to be able
to see right through Mr. Gregory Porlock. General agent, my foot!
Blackmail—that’s his business, I tell you—blackmail! But I’ll be even
with him!” Mr. Tote had recourse to language again. “I’ll show him
whether he can blackmail me! If he gets a knife in him some dark night
he’ll only have himself to blame!”

He had been shouting. Mrs. Tote leaned forward and tapped him on the
knee.

“Be quiet,” she said. “That’s foolish talk. Do you want everyone in the
house to hear you? You get a hold of yourself, Albert, and tell me what
it’s all about. What have you done?”

He said in a sullen voice,

“No more than hundreds of others.”

“What was it?”

He threw her a fleeting look, sitting up there in the sofa corner with
her skinny hands held together in her lap and her eyes looking at him. A
little bit of a thing, Emily, but set in her ways. You could put her
into a fur coat that cost a thousand, but you couldn’t make her look
like a rich man’s wife. But she wouldn’t talk—Emily wouldn’t talk. He’d
got to tell someone. He said,

“It wasn’t anything to start with, only the use of the yard so a lorry
could be run in and be handy when it was wanted.”

“Wanted for what?”

“What had that got to do with me? Then they wanted the hire of my lorry
as well, and I said I wasn’t letting it out for any Tom, Dick or Harry
to drive. And they said I’d be paid for what it was worth three or four
times over.”

Emily Tote said, “Who is ‘_they_’?”

“Sam Black, if you want to know. Well, by that time I was in it enough
to get into trouble, but not enough for it to be worth while. I said to
Sam, ‘I’m not playing about with this any more. It’s not worth my
while.’ And he said, ‘It might be.’ And to cut a long story short, it
was.”

“Black market?” said Emily Tote.

He threw himself back in his corner.

“Money going begging—that’s what it was.”

She sat up very straight in the blue flannel dressing-gown which it was
no use trying to make her change for a silk one. That was Emily all
over. She sat there, and she said as cool as a cucumber,

“Five pounds to a lorry-driver to get out and have a cup of cocoa or a
glass of beer, and a dozen barrels of sugar, or it may be butter, gone
before he comes back. Was that the game?”

His jaw dropped.

“Why, Mother!”

“Do you think I don’t read the papers? It’s all been there in black and
white for anyone to see. And some of the ones they caught got stiff
sentences, didn’t they?”

Mr. Tote’s ruddy colour had faded.

“That was in the war,” he said.

“And what you did—wasn’t that in the war?”

“Don’t talk like that! It isn’t going to come out, I tell you. Who’s
going to bother about what happened three or four years ago? If I pay
up, it will be only because I don’t want any unpleasantness.”

Mrs. Tote was still looking at him.

“You didn’t make all that money out of a few odd barrels.”

He actually laughed.

“Of course I didn’t! That was only the beginning. I got into it in a big
way. Why, if I was to tell you some of the hauls we made, you wouldn’t
believe me. Organizing ability—that’s what they said I had. One of the
planners—that was me. There’s a funny thing about money, you know—once
you start making it, it fair runs away with you and makes itself. When
we started with that twopenny-halfpenny business in Clapham, I lay you
never thought you’d be a rich man’s wife.”

Deep inside herself Emily Tote answered with the words which she would
never allow to pass her lips—“I never thought I’d be married to a
thief.”

She said aloud, “I wouldn’t say too much about that. You’ve only told me
half. What does Mr. Porlock know, and what is he going to do?”

The blood rushed back into his face, swelling the veins, purpling the
skin.

“He’s got dates and places, curse him! There was a lot of petrol from an
aerodrome—he’s got that. And a biggish haul of butter from the docks.
Two or three other big jobs. Says there are witnesses that can swear to
me. But I didn’t believe him. It’s three years ago—who’s going to take
any notice of people swearing to where you were, and to what you said
and did as long ago as that? If I pay, it will be because it doesn’t do
you any good in business to have things said. And if I pay, I know damn
well whose pocket the money’ll go into! Mr. Blackmailer Porlock—that’s
who! And when I think about it, I tell you straight it makes me feel I’d
rather swing for him!”

He was shouting again. Emily Tote said,

“Don’t talk so foolish, Albert.”




                                  XIII


Gregory Porlock came into the billiard-room shepherding the Mastermans.

“Well, now, here we are. And I’m going to carry Moira off. Just finished
a game? Who won?”

Moira Lane laughed.

“Oh, I’m not in Justin’s class—he’s way up, practically out of sight.”

“Ah, then he can take Masterman on, and Miss Masterman can see fair
play. We’ll come back presently.”

He took her off to the study, a comfortable country room with book-lined
walls, warmly coloured rugs, and deep brown leather chairs—a room that
had been used and lived in. Granted that Gregory Porlock had taken the
house furnished, he might be given the credit for his choice. He fitted
the room too—fresh healthy skin, clear eyes, good country tweeds which
had been worn in country weather. There was a tray of cocktails on the
table, and he handed Moira one.

He said, “I’ve brought you here to ask you a question, you know.”

“Have you?” Nothing could have been more friendly than her voice. She
sipped from her glass. “Sounds intriguing. What is it?”

He met her laughing eyes and said quite gravely,

“What do you make of me, Moira? What sort of man would you say I was?”

She didn’t look away, but she looked different. The smile was still in
her eyes, but there was something else there too—something a little
wary, a little on guard. She said in her pretty, light voice,

“A good fellow—a good friend—a charming host. Why?”

He nodded.

“Thank you, my dear. I think you meant that.”

She was sitting on the arm of one of the big chairs, leaning against the
back, every line of the long figure graceful and easy. She took another
sip from her glass and said,

“Of course I did.”

He went over to the fire and put a log of wood on it. When he turned
round he had his charming smile again.

“Well, that being that, I can go on.”

“Go on?”

“Oh, yes—that was just a preliminary. The fact is—let me take your
glass—well, the fact is, I’ve got something for you, and I wanted to
feel sure of my ground before I gave it to you.”

“Something for me?” She laughed suddenly. “Greg, my sweet, how
marvellous! Is it a present? Because I warn you I shall consider I’ve
been lured here under false pretences if it isn’t. It will be a sort of
breach of promise, because you’ve quite definitely raised my hopes.”

He laughed too.

“Have I? Then I shall have to do something about it. Or perhaps you
will. We’ll see. Meanwhile, here it is.”

He took a small parcel wrapped in tissue paper from his pocket, laid it
upon her knee, and went back to the hearth again. From a couple of yards
away he watched her sit up straight and undo the wrappings. She had a
laughing look, but at the first touch of the paper and what it held
there was a faint instant check. Her hands stayed just as they were,
measuring the weight of the parcel, feeling the shape of it through the
thin paper. Something moved under her fingers like the links of a chain,
and she knew.

Gregory Porlock saw her colour go, quite suddenly, as the flame goes
when you blow a candle out. One moment it was there, bright and vivid.
The next it wasn’t there any more. The bright, living thing had gone.
Only her eyes stayed on him in a long searching look before she turned
them to what the paper held.

She was unwrapping the paper now, letting it drop into the seat of the
chair. What emerged was a bracelet—a band about an inch and a half
wide, diamond trellis-work between two rows of fine brilliants, and,
interrupting the trellis at distances of about three quarters of an
inch, light panels of larger stones with a ruby at the centre of each.
The rubies were very fine and of the true pigeon’s blood colour. The
workmanship was exquisite.

Moira Lane held the bracelet out on the palm of her hand. Her blood
might have betrayed her, but her hand was steady.

“What is this?”

Those dancing eyes met hers. He might have been enjoying himself.
Perhaps he was.

“Don’t you know?” As there was no answer, he supplied one. “I think you
do. But you know, you really ought to have been more careful. Of course
there are so many ignorant people that one gets into the habit of
expecting everyone to be ignorant. But you can’t really count on it.
Anyone in the trade might happen to know something about historic
jewels. Even outside the trade there are people like myself to whom the
subject is of interest.”

“I don’t know what you mean. In fact I don’t know what you’re talking
about.”

She really did look blank. He said in an incredulous voice,

“My dear girl, you don’t mean to say you didn’t know what you were
taking!”

A frown crept across the blankness.

“It’s a bracelet. The stones are very good. I suppose it’s worth a lot
of money. Is there anything else to know about it?”

“Well, well,” said Gregory Porlock—“the True History of the Ruby
Bracelet. Instruction for you. Opportunity to show off for me. You may
have noticed that I do like showing off.”

“Yes. What have you got to show?”

He laughed good-humouredly.

“Just a little specialized knowledge. That’s another thing you may have
noticed about me—I’m fond of odd bits of information—little
blind-alley bits and pieces. And you know, sometimes—sometimes they
come in useful.”

“Do they?” Her voice was as steady as her hand had been, but the ring
had gone out of it.

“Well, you shall judge for yourself. Anything about jewels—that has
always fascinated me. Years ago—why it must be quite twenty—I picked
up a shabby little book on an Edinburgh bookstall. It was called ‘Famous
Jewels and their History, with a Particular Account of the Families of
the Nobility and Gentry in whose Possession they are to be Found.’ Not a
well written book, I am afraid, but containing some interesting facts.
Do you know, for instance, that a good many of the French crown jewels
were brought over to England during the Revolution and entrusted for
safe keeping to the Marquess of Queensbury—the one who was known as Old
Q? He is said to have buried them in the cellar of his town house, and
all trace of them appears to have been lost. He kept the secret too
well, and died with it undisclosed. A couple of London clubs now occupy
the site, and somewhere under their foundations there may still be lying
the jewels of the Queens of France——” He paused, and added briskly,
“Or perhaps not. You never know, do you? Jewels are like
riches—sometimes they take to themselves wings. But this is a
digression. I mustn’t let myself be carried away. It is Josephine’s ruby
bracelets with which we are concerned. You did know, I suppose, that
this is one of a pair?”

She glanced down at the trellised diamonds and said,

“How should I know?”

If it was meant for a question, there was no direct answer.

“Then I can continue to show off. My little book mentions those
bracelets. Napoleon gave them to Josephine on rather a special occasion.
Just turn to the inside of the clasp and you will see the N surmounted
by the imperial crown.”

There was no interest in face or manner as she turned the clasp. The
crowned N looked at her from the pale gold.

Gregory Porlock had come over to stand beside her.

“Now turn it and you’ll see the date at the other end of the clasp,
rather faint but legible—Fri. 10. 1804.”

She said, “What does it mean?”

“The tenth of Frimaire, eighteen hundred and four. That is, December the
first, the date on which Josephine at last induced Napoleon to go
through the religious ceremony of marriage with her. He cheated, because
by deliberately omitting the presence of the parish priest he left a
loophole of which he availed himself later on when he applied for a
declaration of nullity. The bracelets were a wedding present. The
imperial N is there because December the first was the eve of their
coronation. Didn’t you really know the story?”

She looked up with a startling anger in her eyes.

“What has it got to do with me?”

He went back to the fire.

“I can tell you that too. Josephine died in eighteen-fourteen. The
bracelets are not specifically mentioned in her will. In fact they
disappear for about forty years, when the second Earl of Pemberley
bought them in Paris as a wedding present for his bride. Where they had
been in the interval does not transpire, but Lord Pemberley was,
apparently, satisfied as to their history, and they have been handed
down in the family ever since. The title is now extinct, but the widow
of the last Earl survives. You are connected with her, I think, through
your mother.”

“So that is why I am supposed to know about the bracelets!”

He nodded.

“We are getting to the point. About ten years ago I had the pleasure of
meeting Lady Pemberley at a charity ball—she was one of the
patronesses. Imagine my interest when I saw that she was wearing the
Josephine bracelets. I ventured to remark on them, and when she found
that I knew their history she was kind enough to take them off and show
me the initial and the date—the same on each. So you see, when I
encountered the bracelet which you have in your hand——”

She broke in with a raised voice,

“What has this got to do with me?”

“I’m boring you? I’ve really almost done. A friend of mine who knows my
hobby told me he had come across a bracelet of very beautiful
workmanship. I went to see it, and of course recognized it at once. I
needn’t tell you the name of the shop, because of course you know it.
What you probably didn’t know was that the proprietor knew perfectly
well from whom he was buying the bracelet. You see, you figure quite a
lot in the Society papers, and he recognized you. In point of fact, he
would not have bought so valuable a piece of jewelry from an unknown
client. Knowing your family connections, he did not hesitate.”

There was a long pause during which he watched an averted face—brows
drawn together, lips pressed into a rigid line.

When he thought the silence had lasted long enough he broke it.

“I’m your friend, you know. There’s no need to look like that.”

The colour rushed back into her face. She swung round on him, eyes wide
and glowing.

“Greg——”

His smile had never been more charming.

“That’s better!”

“Greg—she gave it to me. I don’t know what you’ve been thinking——”

He laughed.

“Well, I bought it. I won’t tell you what I paid, because there’s always
a revolting difference between the buying and the selling price, and I
don’t want to rub it in. Anyhow, now it’s my property there’s nothing to
stop my making a gesture and sending it back to Lady Pemberley, is
there?”

“You can’t do that! I naturally don’t want her to know I sold it.”

“Oh, naturally! Have you got the other one—or did you sell that too?”

“She only gave me one.”

He shook his head.

“My dear girl, it won’t do. You know, and I know. And you know that I
know. What’s the good of keeping up this farce? If I were to go to Lady
Pemberley and say that I had recognized her bracelet in a sale room,
what do you suppose would happen? There would be a bit of a crash,
wouldn’t there? She wouldn’t run you in—oh, no! We don’t wash our dirty
linen in public. But I think Miss Lane’s name would come out of Lady
Pemberley’s will, and I shouldn’t be surprised if it didn’t get round
the family that dear Moira had spilt rather a lot of ink on her
copybook. In fact, in the language of melodrama, ‘Social Ruin Looms’.”

Moira Lane got to her feet. She put the bracelet down on the corner of
the writing-table and said rather quietly,

“What good would that do you?”

He could admire her, and he did. Courage appealed to him, and the
breeding which set him at a distance. She wouldn’t cry or make any
appeal, she wouldn’t break. He looked at her approvingly.

“That’s where we really get down to brass tacks. And the answer is, it
wouldn’t do me any good at all. There’s nothing in the world I want less
than to hurt you. All I want is for us to stop playing comedies and get
to business.”

“What business?”

He came up to the table and gave her another cocktail.

“Better have a drink. You look played out. Now, Moira, listen! I could
ruin you. But why should I want to? I don’t. I admire you very much, and
I like to think that we are friends. I’ll go farther and tell you I’d
like to have you as a partner.”

Standing there, glass in hand, she looked at him with a little scorn.
She finished her cocktail, put the glass back on the tray, and waited,
her eyebrows delicately raised.

He stood perhaps a yard away, easy and smiling.

“I told you I was a collector of odd bits of information. When people
know you like them they come your way, sometimes in a very surprising
manner. But that sort of thing has to be very carefully checked. It
doesn’t do to slip up. Some of it—rather an important part—comes from
the circles of which you are a privileged member. Exclusive circles,
very intimately linked. It would be a great advantage to me to have what
I might call a consultant who was in and of those very exclusive
circles.”

The eyebrows rose a little higher still.

“You used the word partner just now. You are asking me to be your
partner in a blackmailing business?”

He put up a deprecatory hand.

“Now, Moira—what’s the good of talking like that? It may relieve your
feelings, but I assure you it doesn’t do anything at all to mine. They
have acquired a complete resistance to sarcasm, so you are wasting your
time. If, on the other hand, you did by any chance succeed in making me
angry, the results might be unfortunate——” He paused and added, “for
you. I think that my use of the word partner was not a very happy one.
It implies responsibility, and you would have none. Consultant is a much
more accurate description. All I should ever ask you to do would be to
keep me straight as to facts, and to assist me with your personal
specialized knowledge of the people concerned. To give you a simple
illustration. Certain things admitted to be facts might in one case be
extremely compromising, whereas in another no one would attach the
slightest importance to them. That is where your personal contacts would
come in. I needn’t say that the whole thing would be completely
confidential and sufficiently remunerative. As far as Josephine’s
bracelet is concerned, it is yours to do what you like with. If I might
make a suggestion, it would be that you should find some opportunity of
restoring it to Lady Pemberley. It would be better not to run any
further risk. It is the future that matters now.”

The last words set her blood storming. The future—and what a future! If
she could have killed him then, she might have done it. Perhaps he
guessed that. The sudden brilliance of her glance, the sudden scarlet in
the cheeks which had been so pale, declared an inner fire. He could have
no possible doubt as to its nature, but he gave her marks for
self-control.

It was not until the flame had dropped from flaring-point that she let
herself speak. When she did, it was any guest to any host.

“My dear Greg, you’re too flattering. But I’m afraid I shouldn’t be any
good at business—I expect you have to be born that way. Too kind of you
to let me have my bracelet back. You must let me know what you paid for
it. I shouldn’t like my cousin to know that I had sold her present. The
fact is, I was in a frightful hole just then, and I simply had to have
the money.”

The bracelet was on her wrist as she spoke, withdrawn from the table and
slipped over her left hand so swiftly and smoothly that Gregory Porlock
would hardly have had time to intervene. In point of fact he made no
move to do so, but laughed and said,

“Well, don’t sell it again! It’s a bit too dangerous. Someone else might
recognize it next time—you never know.” Then, as she turned to go, he
came a step nearer, took her by the wrist, his big hand closing down
over the diamond trellis, pressing it into her flesh. “I’ve got the
receipted bill, you know. It describes the bracelet. You can have till
Monday morning to make up your mind. Meanwhile we’ll call a truce.”

He let go of her, and she turned and went out of the room without a
word.

She was half way up the stairs, when she heard the front door open and
shut. The cold of the outer air came in and followed her, with the sound
of Leonard Carroll’s voice. The last of the house-party had arrived.

Without turning her head she went on past the door of Miss Masterman’s
room to her own. A short distance, a short time, from door to door, from
the study to this small charming bedroom with its pale blue curtains
drawn, its clean fresh chintzes with their flowery pattern picking up
the colour of the curtains and blending it with purple and rose, its
warm sparkling fire. But in that distance, in that time, Moira Lane had
made up her mind what she was going to do.




                                  XIV


The Grange was an old house. The drawing-room, long and low, its four
rather narrow windows curtained in a pale flowered brocade which toned
charmingly with the ivory panelled walls, its chairs and couches
repeating the same soft shades, preserved the formal delicacy of another
day. Gregory Porlock, awaiting the arrival of his guests, considered,
not for the first time, how much better the scene would have been suited
by an older style of dress. For the women piled curls and spreading
hoops, with knee-breeches and coloured coats for the men. He could have
fancied himself very well in a prune velvet, with a touch of powder in
the hair.

His mood was a buoyant one. He felt the exhilaration of a man who drives
a difficult team over a dangerous course. If there were no difficulties,
no dangers, there would be no pleasure in doing it. The hairsbreadth
turn, the moment when everything was in the balance, the bending of
nerve and will to curb, to guide, to master a straining team, gave
adventure its zest and made every risk worth while. He was taking risks
tonight. Linnet would always be a risk. Women at the best were
incalculable—women with nerves, like the crazy compass in a magnetic
storm. For all he knew, Linnet might even now be having hysterics and
breaking it to Martin Oakley that she was a bigamist. Imagining the
scene, he permitted himself to be amused. But he rather thought she
would hold out a little longer. That opened up the possibility of her
arriving for dinner only to faint into her soup-plate. He must see that
she had a cocktail when she arrived. And he must be very, very nice to
her. Linnet always responded to kindness. If the period of their
marriage had not coincided with the lowest depths of his fortunes, she
might have been adoring him still, but the sweetest temper may turn sour
in a slum, and the whole business had become wretchedly sordid. He
recalled it with distaste.

Dorinda Brown was another risk. She had not, of course, been intended to
accompany the Oakleys tonight. It had amused him to invite her warmly,
whilst taking steps to ensure that she would not be able to come. Just
where the plan had slipped, and how, he didn’t know, but he meant to
find out. Dorinda should have had another engagement—not so pleasant,
but one which would have admitted of no excuse. He didn’t like his plans
going wrong. They were always very carefully laid, and if they didn’t
come off, he made it his business to see that someone got into trouble.
Apart from annoyance on this point, the fact that Dorinda would
presently arrive in the wake of the Oakleys served to heighten the
interest of the occasion.

He allowed himself some amused speculation as to what she would be like.
Seven years is quite a time, and the seven years between fourteen and
twenty-one are longer than is warranted by the mere months and years. He
remembered a child with a rosy face, a thick bright plait, and round
brown eyes. No, that would be earlier still. At fourteen the plait had
gone, but the face was still rosy, and the eyes the eyes of a child. He
had a sudden memory of them meeting his own in a long, grave stare. Mary
had aggravated him into swearing at her, and Dorinda had walked in on
them. She had opened the door and stood there looking at him with that
shocked, solemn stare. Come to think of it, it was the last time he had
seen her, and the question was, would she remember him, or would she
not? In his own estimation he was not an easy person to forget. He
rather flattered himself that no woman would ever quite forget the
memories he had given her. But a child might forget—or might not. There
was no counting on it. Suppose she remembered him.... He was of the
opinion that it really didn’t matter very much. A girl who had been
brought up by Mary would certainly not be so ill-bred as to make a
scene, and when all was said and done, she couldn’t be sure. Reluctant
as he was to admit the possibility that he might have a double, such
things were not uncommon, and doubt once planted could be so fostered as
to bring in a satisfactory crop. He felt a swelling confidence in his
ability to deal with Dorinda Brown.

Linnet Oakley sat looking into her mirror with frightened eyes. She was
dressed, but she didn’t know even now whether she meant to go or not.
She had not been in the same mind about it for half an hour at a time
all the day, or all the night, or all the day before, or all the night
before that.

Sometimes she saw herself going—getting into the car, driving a little
way, getting out again, going into the Grange, which was a strange house
of which she could make no picture—and she felt she couldn’t do it. She
couldn’t go into that house and meet Glen. She couldn’t touch his hand.
Perhaps he would take her in to dinner ... She couldn’t, couldn’t do
it—not with Martin there—not with Martin looking on.

Sometimes she saw herself staying at home—saying she felt faint, saying
she had a headache. But Glen would know it wasn’t true. Martin would go
without her, and how did she know what Glen would do or say? He might be
angry.... The something inside her which never stopped shaking shook a
little more at the thought of Glen’s anger. And Martin would want to
know why she had a headache, why she felt faint. He wouldn’t be
angry—Martin was never angry with her. He would be kind. And if he was
kind, she wouldn’t be able to help crying, and then, however hard she
tried, she wouldn’t be able to help telling him.

Something called out in her, “No—no—_no_!” She saw Martin turning her
out. She saw herself in the street, in the dock, in prison—quite cast
off, quite ruined, quite lost.

She stared into the glass and saw her own reflection in rose and silver.
Hooper was a good maid. The fair hair had been made the most of, the
delicate make-up had been applied with artistic discretion. It seemed
impossible to believe that that pretty tinted image really belonged to
the trembling hunted creature she felt herself to be. In some very
feminine way it gave her courage. The things that were frightening her
so much didn’t seem to have anything to do with that picture in the
glass. It was the first time she had worn the dress. It was very
becoming. The new lipstick was just right with it, and the nail polish.
She pushed back the dressing-stool and stood up to get the full-length
effect. The line was perfect.

Hooper put one drop of her own special scent on a tiny handkerchief and
gave it to her. It was a new creation—faint, fresh, delicious. Then she
remembered that it was called _Souviens tu?_ She put out a hand to the
dressing-table to steady herself. She couldn’t go—she couldn’t stay——

Martin Oakley came into the room, frowning.

“Damned nuisance having to go out! A nice quiet evening at home—that’s
what I feel like.”

She managed a smile for him. The discreet Hooper had vanished.

“Do you like my dress?”

“It’s the one I always do like, isn’t it?”

“Silly! You’ve never seen it before. It’s new.”

“All right, let’s have a look. Turn round!”

She did a graceful dancing turn and dropped into a curtsey.

“Do you really like it?”

She didn’t need to ask—not when he looked at her like that. He put both
arms round her and held her close. The terrible trembling was stilled.
She could go with Martin. Martin would take care of her. She needn’t be
frightened any more. Martin wouldn’t let anyone hurt her.




                                   XV


Dorinda followed the Oakleys into the big old hall with its great beams,
its deep roomy hearth, and jutting chimney-breast. A log fire burned
between iron dogs. The old flagstones under foot were softened by rugs,
the sconces on the panelled walls now held electric candles. Otherwise
she was seeing what any winter guests might have seen any time in the
last three hundred years. The thought came to her as she slipped out of
the fur coat which Mrs. Oakley had lent her. She would have liked to go
up the staircase and follow the gallery which ran round three sides of
the hall, but Mrs. Oakley was saying, “Oh, no—we have come such a
little way.”

The stair ran up on the left-hand side with bare polished treads as
black as the old beams. She dropped her coat on a big carved chair and
turned reluctantly to follow Mrs. Oakley’s rose-and-silver to the
drawing-room. It was a pretty dress, and it had probably cost the earth.
She wondered whether Mrs. Oakley ever wore anything but pink. You’d
think she’d get tired of it—just one pink thing after another. Why not
blue for a change, or green——

She had got as far as that, when she saw Gregory Porlock coming to meet
them. There was a scatter of people round the fire, but she really only
saw him. Coming to meet them with an outstretched hand and a charming
smile. It would have been plain to anyone that he was their host, and
that he was Gregory Porlock. It was perfectly plain to Dorinda that he
was Glen Porteous, Aunt Mary’s husband—the Wicked Uncle. She mightn’t
have been so sure if it hadn’t been for the Rowbecker photograph. Seven
years is a long gap, as Gregory himself had concluded. If it hadn’t been
for the photograph, she might not have taken so confident a leap, or
landed with so much certainty upon the other side. As it was, she had no
doubts at all. But Aunt Mary’s training held. She heard Mrs. Oakley
murmur her name, met Gregory’s smiling eyes, and put her hand in his.

If she had remembered nothing else, she would have remembered that warm,
strong clasp. She had always remembered it. It was one of the things she
had loved, and afterwards hated. Her colour deepened, her eyes sent him
a steady look, and he knew just as well as if she had spoken his name
that she had recognized him. Well, it would be more amusing that way. He
said,

“But we have met before—on the telephone. And do you know, I think I
could have described you. You are just like your voice. Now tell me—am
I at all like mine?”

“I think so.”

There was something of the gravity of the child he remembered, something
of her simplicity and directness. If she wouldn’t make a scene, neither
would she play a game with him. Really quite an entertaining situation.

And then she looked past him and saw Justin Leigh. Gregory Porlock did
not doubt that the surprise was as complete as it was delightful. It was
so delightful that she forgot everything else. She went to meet him with
a bloom and radiance which couldn’t possibly escape the experienced
observer. He had to turn from their meeting to introduce the Oakleys to
the Totes and Mastermans. How they were going to mix, he had no idea,
and whilst his social sense, functioning quite automatically, would do
its best with six people of whom at least two were hating him furiously
and two more were badly frightened, the sense of humour which very
seldom left him drew its own detached amusement from the scene.

When Leonard Carroll added himself and his crooked smile to the already
ill-assorted group he contributed a touch of the bizarre. Watching him
cross the floor, Gregory wondered, by no means for the first time,
whether the impression of some slight physical deformity arose from fact
or fancy. Was one shoulder really a little higher than the other, or did
it only appear to be so because the left eyebrow tilted whilst that on
the right was straight? Did the left foot halt in the least perceptible
limp, or was it a mere affectation akin to drawling speech? Carroll
could drawl when he liked, just as he could find a pungent phrase for
point-blank rudeness. For the rest, he had very fine brown hair and not
too much of it, a face rather oddly lined for what appeared to be his
years, and a physique at once slight and full of nervous energy. His
bright sardonic eyes passed over the five elderly people to whom he was
being introduced in a manner which made it perfectly clear that as far
as he was concerned they were so much furniture, dwelt for a moment upon
Linnet Oakley, and was done with her. Gregory, prompt in hospitality,
hastened to alleviate the situation with cocktails.

Justin Leigh had been surprised at the feelings with which he watched
Dorinda come into the room. To one part of them he was by now no
stranger, but this strong proprietary sense rather took him aback. It
was, of course, increased by the fact that she was wearing the dress
which they had chosen together. It was a good dress, and she looked well
in it. The small bright circlet of his mother’s brooch caught the light.
But it wasn’t only that. He had to admit that even in garments which his
taste deplored there always had been something about Dorinda. You
couldn’t help noticing it when you saw her in a crowd. It was partly the
way she held her head, and partly the curious, unusual way in which
nature had taken the trouble to match her eyes and hair. Unusual
colouring, a good carriage, the look of a wise child—these were
contributory. But there was something more—the something which would
have given him the feeling that they belonged if he had met her a
stranger in a bus, a shipwreck, a bazaar in Bombay, or the desert of
Gobi. It was one of those things. You couldn’t explain it, you couldn’t
get rid of it, and, most significant of all, you didn’t want to.

Her “How did you get here, Justin?” made no attempt to conceal her
pleasure. He had, for once, no desire to hide his own. He laughed and
said,

“Moira Lane was coming down for the week-end. She rang up and asked if
she could bring me.”

Dorinda had been too well brought up to allow her smile to fade. She
hoped it didn’t look as stiff as it felt.

And then, unbelievably, Justin was saying,

“Don’t be silly. I came down to see you—at least not you, the
Oakleys—in my capacity as chaperon.”

She said, “Oh!” That is the only way it can be written, but it was a
sound in which a little spring of laughter bubbled up.

And on that Gregory Porlock intervened.

“Now, he’s going to be next to you at dinner, so you must come and meet
everyone else. And you must have a cocktail.”

The introductions which followed gave her a lot of impressions, as it
were, in layers. Mr. Tote red and stout, with eyes like an angry pig.
Mr. Masterman, who reminded her of an undertaker though she couldn’t
have said why. Mrs. Tote, small and wispy behind a lot of grey satin and
diamonds, with her hair screwed up as if she was going to have a bath,
and a general resemblance to a kind but anxious mouse. Dorinda wondered
why anyone should put on so many diamonds when all they did was to glare
and glitter on a skinny neck and make the face above it look about a
hundred and fifty.

Miss Masterman hadn’t any diamonds. She wore an old-fashioned black lace
dress, quite long in the sleeves and almost high in the neck, where it
was fastened by a small pearl brooch. Meeting the dark eyes, Dorinda
felt the word “mourning” come into her mind—“She’s in mourning”. But it
hadn’t anything to do with the black lace dress. It was the look in the
eyes—as if something had been lost and could never be found again.

She had only had time to decide that she disliked Mr. Carroll, when the
door opened upon the latest guest. Moira Lane came in with a definite
air of having just bought the earth. She wore a velvet picture dress of
the colour of a damask rose, and her cheeks matched it. Her extremely
beautiful arms were bare to the shoulder, and upon her left wrist she
wore Josephine’s diamond and ruby bracelet. After pausing for a moment
on the threshold she passed swiftly and lightly to the group by the fire
and held out that arched left wrist to Gregory Porlock.

“There, Greg darling! Doesn’t it look nice?”

She turned from him to sweep the whole company with a brilliant glance
and said in her lightest, clearest tones,

“It’s a joyous reunion. I lost my lovely bracelet, and Greg has just got
it back for me. Quite too marvellous of him! I must never, never lose it
again, must I?”

On the last words her eyes came back to Gregory’s face. If it expressed
admiration, it was no more than he felt to be her due. In the most
public manner possible she was challenging him to claim the bracelet.
What he didn’t do now he could certainly never do again. It was a most
definite “Speak now, or forever hold your peace!”

As the door opened and the butler appeared to announce that dinner was
served, Gregory smiled back at her and said,

“More careful another time, my dear—that’s the motto.”




                                  XVI


Gregory shepherded them.

“Mrs. Tote, shall we lead the way? No formality, I think. I am afraid
our numbers don’t balance, but at an oval table that doesn’t matter so
much, does it?”

As they crossed the hall, Justin felt a sharp pinch on the arm. Looking
down, he saw Dorinda’s hand withdrawn, her eyes imploring. He fell back
a pace and let the rest go by.

“What is it?”

Almost without moving her lips she said,

“He’s the Wicked Uncle.”

“Who is?”

“Mr. Porlock?”

“Nonsense!”

She gave an emphatic nod.

“He _is_.”

And with that they were at the dining-room door.

When they were in their places Dorinda found herself looking across the
length of the table at Gregory and Mrs. Tote. Between her and them on
her right were Mr. Masterman, Mrs. Oakley, Mr. Tote, Miss Masterman,
Gregory; and on her left Justin, that odd-looking Leonard Carroll, Moira
Lane, Martin Oakley, and Mrs. Tote.

Her eyes came back to Moira, laughing with Leonard Carroll. Quite
honestly and doggedly she accepted her as something quite out of her own
class—a beautiful magical creature dispensing smiles and wit with easy
charm and perfect poise. She took her soup soberly, and had so far
forgotten Gregory that when Justin said, “Did you mean that?” she had
lost the thread and could only give him a blank look.

“What you said just now,” he prompted. “It seems incredible.”

“Sorry—I was thinking of something else. Of course I did.”

“You can’t be sure.”

“Oh, but I am. Quite—quite—_quite_ sure.”

“Then we’d better talk about something else.”

Dorinda looked again at Moira Lane. Leonard Carroll was leaning towards
her with his crooked smile. A rapid cut and thrust flashed back and
forth between them. She said quite low to Justin,

“How beautiful she is.”

She wondered why he should be amused.

“Decorative creature,” he said. “All the lights on tonight. I wonder
why.”

Something in Dorinda’s mind said, “Oh, Justin, they’re for you.” Didn’t
he know? She thought he must. But perhaps you didn’t when it was for
you.... She wondered about that. When you were very, very fond of
anyone, did it make you see clearly, or did it make a kind of mist in
which you had to grope your way? She thought it might do both these
things—not at the same time of course, but first one and then the
other. Like with her and Justin—because sometimes she felt that she
could see right into his mind and know just what he was thinking, like
when he hated her blue dress, but other times she didn’t know at all,
like just now about Moira Lane.

She emerged from this train of thought to help herself to an entrée.
Justin and Moira were talking across Leonard Carroll. No, he was talking
too. They were laughing together. On her right Mr. Masterman was staring
at his plate. Mrs. Oakley beyond him had turned to Mr. Tote, to whom she
could be heard recounting some instance of Marty’s unusual precocity and
intelligence. The words, “And he was only three at the time”, impinged
upon Dorinda’s ear. They must have impinged upon Mr. Tote’s ear too, but
he gave no sign that they had done so. He had taken a very large helping
and was eating his way through it in an impervious manner.

Urged by social duty, Dorinda addressed Mr. Masterman’s profile.

“I do hope it isn’t going to snow—don’t you?”

His full face was even less reassuring than his profile. He looked at
Dorinda as if she wasn’t there and said,

“Why?”

“Messy—so perfectly horrid when it thaws. And never enough of it to do
anything with.”

She got the profile again. He had taken up a fork and begun upon the
entrée, but with the same air of not noticing what it was. Which seemed
a terrible waste, because it was frightfully good and very intriguing.
Even in the middle of feeling how beautiful Moira was, and what a
marvellous wife she would make for Justin, Dorinda couldn’t help
wondering what it was made of. The three on her left all laughed again.
Justin sat turned away, making no attempt to include her. She couldn’t
guess how devoutly he was hoping that she had not heard the joke.

It was at this moment that Linnet Oakley, having finished her anecdote,
found herself addressed by Gregory Porlock across Miss Masterman and Mr.
Tote. Just what prompted him remains a matter for conjecture. On his
right Mrs. Tote was engaged with her other neighbour, Martin Oakley.
They appeared to be comparing notes upon the intelligence of infants as
exemplified by Marty and her daughter Allie’s child. Gregory had,
perhaps, exhausted the flow of conversation which he had been
perseveringly directing towards Miss Masterman, and to which she had
remained completely unresponsive. He may have been provoked to malice,
he may merely have felt that a diversion of some kind was a necessity.
Be that as it may, he addressed Linnet by name.

“Mrs. Oakley, I hope you were successful in getting the luminous paint
you wanted.”

Her helpless, startled air was noticed then, and remembered later. Mr.
Tote noticed it. Woman looked like a frightened rabbit—just about that
much brain. Mr. Masterman on her other side would not, perhaps, have
been roused to notice anything if it had not been for the fact that her
left hand was on the table between them, and that when she started in
that senseless way she very nearly had his champagne-glass over. On the
other side of the table Mrs. Tote thought Mrs. Oakley very nervous, and
Martin Oakley, watching her change colour, wondered whether she wasn’t
feeling well.

Linnet drew a fluttering breath and said, “Oh, yes,” took another, and
said,

“It was Miss Brown who got it.”

“Without any trouble, I hope,” said Gregory Porlock, to Dorinda this
time. And the moment he said it Dorinda was perfectly sure that he knew
just what had happened at the De Luxe stores. Their eyes met. Each said
something to the other. Gregory’s said, “You see—take care.” Dorinda’s
said, “I know.”

And she did. She would never be able to prove it, but she was quite,
quite sure that he had pulled the strings which took her to the De Luxe
Stores, and took someone else there to put stolen goods in her pocket.
Why? To get her away from the Oakleys, where she couldn’t help meeting
him and might be inconvenient enough to recognize a Wicked Uncle.

She came back to the conversation, to find that practically everyone
round the table had entered it. Martin Oakley was saying,

“The stuff has been extraordinarily difficult to get, and we wanted it
for Marty’s clock. I was really grateful to you for the tip, Greg. I
told my wife to get on with it, as Miss Brown was going up to town.”

Dorinda sorted that out. Gregory Porlock had told Martin Oakley that the
De Luxe had luminous paint, and Martin had told his wife. It all fitted
in. As she got there, Mrs. Tote said,

“But, Mr. Porlock, whatever did _you_ want with luminous paint?”

Leonard Carroll broke in with a laugh.

“Don’t you know? I guessed at once. He goes creeping round with it in
the dead of night looking for kind deeds to do by stealth. The perfect
host—nothing escapes him. Comfort for the guest, and a twenty-four hour
service—that’s the way it goes.”

Gregory laughed too. Mrs. Tote considered that “that Mr. Carroll” had
had quite enough champagne. Something in the acting line, and a bit too
free with his tongue. Some of the things he’d been saying to Miss
Lane—well, really! And all she did was laugh, when what he wanted was a
good setting-down. Give that sort an inch, and they’ll have the whole
bolt of cloth before you can turn your head.

Gregory was laughing too.

“I’m afraid I’m not quite as attentive as that. I wanted the paint for
that beam which runs across as you go down a step into the cloakroom. I
don’t know why they built these old houses up and down like that—I
suppose they didn’t bother to get their levels. Anyhow it’s a bit
awkward for anyone who doesn’t know his way. You can reach the switch
without going down the step, but only just, and you clear the beam if
you’re not over six foot, but an extra tall guest is liable to brain
himself, and anyone might come a cropper over the step. So I had the
bright idea of painting the beam and the switch with luminous paint. By
the way, I must apologize for the smell. It’s had one coat, which I hope
is dry, but it’s got to have another, so we left the paint in the
cupboard.”

Mrs. Oakley said in rather a high voice,

“Marty loves his clock. Martin gave it another coat just before we came
out. Marty says he loves to wake up in the night and see it looking at
him. He says it’s like a big eye. He has so much imagination.”

Mr. Tote turned a cross red face.

“How can it look like an eye? It’s only the hands that’s painted! Funny
sort of an eye!”

Linnet gave a flustered laugh.

“Oh, well—you see—Marty painted the whole face. He didn’t know. And
Nurse says it doesn’t matter, because the hands can be painted black,
and then she’ll get quite near enough to the time by the position
they’re in without bothering about the numbers. And of course Marty
doesn’t care so long as it shines in the dark.”

“So shines,” proclaimed Mr. Carroll, “a good deed in this naughty world.
Much ado about nothing. Night’s candles are burnt out. Let us eat,
drink, and be merry. I could go on for hours like this if anyone would
like me to.”

“They wouldn’t,” said Moira.

“Then I’ll tell you the latest, the very latest scandal—night’s
scandals being by no means all burnt out.” He dropped his voice, and
Justin turned back to Dorinda with the feeling that this was the most
ill-assorted company he had ever been in, and that he wouldn’t be sorry
when the evening was over.

It was at this moment that it occurred to him to wonder why a man of
Gregory Porlock’s unquestionable social gifts should have assembled at
his table people so incompatible as the Totes and Leonard Carroll, the
Mastermans and Moira Lane, to mention only the extremer instances. To
this “Why?” he had no reply, but it was to return and clamour for an
answer before the night was out. For the moment he dismissed it and fell
into easy, natural talk with Dorinda.




                                  XVII


You can bring a horse to the water, but you cannot make him drink.
Assembled in the drawing-room after dinner, Gregory Porlock’s guests
exemplified this proverb. As far as the Totes and the Mastermans were
concerned, they might have been compared to a string of mules gazing at
a stream at which they had no intention of quenching their thirst.

Neither Mrs. Tote nor Miss Masterman played cards, but Gregory drove
them with determination into other games. It is, of course, one way of
breaking the ice, but it is not always a very successful way. Required
to write down a list of things all beginning with the letter M which she
would take to a desert island, under such headings as Food, Drink,
Clothes, Livestock, and Miscellaneous, Miss Masterman gave up a
perfectly blank sheet, while Mrs. Tote contributed Mice and Mustard. Mr.
Carroll’s list was witty, vulgar, and brief; Dorinda’s rather
painstaking; and Gregory’s easily the longest. Mr. Tote declined to
participate, and Mr. Masterman was found to be absent. Returning
presently, he joined in the second round with a kind of gloomy
efficiency, and came in second.

Uphill work as it had been, there was some slight thawing of the frost.
When Moira suggested charades, no one except Mr. Tote absolutely refused
to play. There was no doubt that the suggestion came from Moira.
Everyone was to be clear about that, and that it was Leonard Carroll who
violently objected to a charade, as he said that to drive totally
incompetent amateurs through one scene would endanger his sanity, but
that to attempt three would certainly wreck it, so he wasn’t prepared to
go beyond doing a proverb. Whereupon Moira cut in with an “All right,
you pick up for one side, and Greg for the other.” And Leonard Carroll
put an arm round her shoulders and sang in his high, dry tenor, “You are
my first, my only choice!” To which she replied with a short laugh,
“You’ll have to take your share, darling. You can’t land Greg with all
the rest.”

Gregory at once picked Martin Oakley, thus making it practically certain
that Linnet would fall into the other camp.

In the end the party to go out under Leonard Carroll consisted of Mrs.
Oakley, Moira, Mr. Masterman, and Mrs. Tote, while Gregory remained in
the drawing-room with Miss Masterman, Dorinda, Martin Oakley, and Justin
Leigh, Mr. Tote continuing to sit in a large armchair and smoke with an
air of having nothing to do with the proceedings. His wife threw him
rather an odd look as she left the room. There was apprehension in it,
and something like reproof. It is all very well to be angry, but you
needn’t forget your manners, and Albert was old enough to know when he’d
had as much drink as he could carry. A couple of cocktails, and all that
champagne, and goodness knew how much port wine—no wonder he didn’t
feel like playing games. Well, no more did she, if it came to that.
Games were for young people, and a pretty sight to see them enjoying
themselves. They’d always had a Christmas party for Allie. Pretty as a
picture she’d look with her fair hair floating.

It was just as the party reached the hall that the butler crossed it on
his way to fetch the coffee-tray. He came back with it in a moment, a
thin, narrow-shouldered man with a face which reminded Mrs. Tote of a
monkey. Something about the way the eyes were set and the way his cheeks
fell in. It was the first time she had noticed him. She did so now with
pleasurable recollections of taking Allie to the Zoo and seeing the
chimpanzees have their tea.

One of the drawbacks to games of the charade type is that half the
company is consigned to a long, dull wait, whilst the other half has all
the amusement of dressing up and quarrelling over what they are going to
act. Leonard Carroll made it perfectly clear that he was going to have
the star part, and that the others were only there to do what they were
told. He was going to be the devil. Moira was to be a nun—“Go and get a
sheet and two towels.” Mr. Masterman was to wear a long black
cloak—“There’s one hanging up in the lobby.” Mrs. Tote a mackintosh and
the largest man’s hat she could lay hands on. Mrs. Oakley could stay as
she was. If she liked to take some of the flowers off the dinner-table
and make herself a wreath she could. “And remember, everything’s going
to depend on the timing, so if anyone doesn’t do what he’s told, off to
hell he goes in my burning claws! Oh, and we’ll have to do it out here.”

He opened the drawing-room door abruptly and addressed the group inside.

“We’re doing it out here. Auditorium round the fire, nice and warm.
Masterman will let you know when we’re ready.”

Inside the drawing-room Miss Masterman and Mr. Tote sat silent and the
others talked. Dorinda found herself admiring the Uncle’s flow of
bonhomie. It really was quite easy to be amused and to join in. Perhaps
the fact that Justin had come over to sit on the arm of her chair made
it easier than it would have been if he had been out in the hall with
Moira Lane. But of course Mr. Carroll wouldn’t want him there. He
admired Moira himself.

Mr. Carroll was a fast worker. It was certainly not more than ten
minutes before the door opened and Mr. Masterman beckoned to them with
an arm shrouded in black drapery.

Coming out of the brightly lighted room, the hall seemed dark. The glow
had gone from the fire. All the lights had been extinguished except a
small reading-lamp. It stood on the stone mantelpiece, its tilted shade
covered and prolonged by thick brown paper in such a manner as to throw
one bright beam across the hall. It fell slantingly and made a pool of
light between the foot of the stair and a massive oak table placed
against its panelled side. All beyond this was shadowy—the stair
itself, the space around it, the back of the hall—degrees of darkness
receding into total gloom.

Masterman piloted them to the hearth, around which chairs had been
assembled, placed on a slant to face the stairway and the back of the
hall. A point on which everyone afterwards seemed uncertain was whether
Mr. Tote had taken his place among the rest. No one could declare that
he had, and no one was prepared to say that he had not.

From somewhere above their heads a high, floating voice said, “The
curtain rises,” and down the length of the stair came a movement of
shadowy forms, becoming more distinct as they came nearer to the pool of
light, entering it and passing out of it again into the deeper shade
beyond. Masterman first, really an effective figure in his black cloak,
always the most macabre of garments, and a bandage, white and ghastly,
blinding one eye and blotting out half his face. After him Mrs. Tote,
bent double over a crotched stick, her grey satin and diamonds hidden by
an old stained waterproof, her head lost in a battered wide-brimmed hat.
She passed out of the light, and Linnet Oakley took her place—a dazzle
of rose and silver, flowers in her hair, flowers in her hands. She had
been told to smile, but as she stepped into the lighted space she was
suddenly afraid. Her lips parted, her eyes stared. She stood for a
moment as if she was waiting for something to happen, and then with a
visible shudder went on into the dark. The tall white nun who followed
her was Moira Lane. She walked with eyes cast down and a string of beads
between her hands. Then full in the beam of light, the eyelids lifted,
the head turned, the eyes looked back over her shoulder.

She passed on. At the moment she came level with the oak table something
moved on the stair above her and the single light went out, leaving the
hall quite black. Upon this blackness there appeared the luminous shape
of a face, two jutting horns, two luminous thrusting hands. They were
high up—they were lower—they came swooping down. Moira’s scream rang
in the rafters, and was followed by a horrid chuckling laugh.

She did not scream again when Len Carroll caught her about the shoulders
and brought his crooked mouth down hard upon her own, but she very
nearly made her thumb and forefinger meet in the flesh of his under arm.

When Mr. Masterman switched on all the lights, the devil was back on the
table from which he had swooped, a dark pullover hiding his shirt and a
daubed paper mask dangling from his hand. The horns were paper too. They
stuck out jauntily above a face which for the moment really did look
devilish. The audience clapped, and Gregory called out, “Bravo, my dear
fellow! First-class! But we’ve guessed your proverb—‘The devil takes
the hindmost’.”

Leonard Carroll waved a hand whitened with paint and came down from the
table in an agile leap.

“Your turn now,” he said. “I must go and get this stuff off, or it will
be all over the place.” He came forward as he spoke.

Everyone was to be asked about how near he was to Gregory Porlock. The
evidence on this point presents a good deal of confusion. There is
general agreement that he joined the group by the fire, spoke to one or
two people, was congratulated on the success of the charade, and then
turned away and ran up the stairs, taking them two at a time. Where the
evidence fails is on the point of any direct contact with Gregory. When
he was asked why he didn’t wash in the downstair cloakroom he had his
answer ready—he had to get rid of the pullover and resume the
dinner-jacket which he had left in his room.

Conversation broke out below. Dorinda looked across at Moira and saw her
stand just where she had been when the lights went on, between the table
and the hearth. She was taking off the two white face-towels which had
bound brow and chin for the nun’s head-dress. Her eyes were angry, her
fingers moved with energy. She threw the towels down upon the table,
stepped clear of the sheet which had formed her robe, and flung it after
the towels in a bundle, hit or miss. It slid on the polished surface and
fell in a heap to the floor, taking one of the towels with it. Moira’s
hands went to her hair. There was no mirror in the hall. She shook out
her full crimson skirt and came over to Justin.

“How is my hair? I can’t be bothered to go upstairs. Will it do?”

He nodded.

“Not a wave out of place.”

“Oh, well, I was pretty careful. How did it go?”

“As Porlock said—a first-class show. We shan’t do half so well. You
have a magnificent scream. A pity we can’t borrow you.”

She laughed.

“Would you like to?” Then, with a jerk in her voice, “Oh, Len was the
star turn.”

Gregory had gone over towards the stair. He stood a little clear of the
group about the fire and raised his voice.

“Well, it’s our turn now. I’m afraid we shan’t be a patch on you. You
were really all most awfully good. Will you go back into the
drawing-room and leave us to do the best we can—Mrs. Tote, Mrs. Oakley,
Moira, Masterman. Carroll won’t get that stuff off in a hurry—he’ll
have to join you later. I don’t think we want to wait for him. The rest
stay here.”

He began to walk towards them, but before he had taken a couple of steps
the lights went out again. Linnet Oakley gave a little startled scream.
Mr. Masterman called out, “Who did that?” There was a general stir of
movement. Someone knocked over a chair. And right on that there was
something between a cough and a groan, and the sound of a heavy fall.

Justin Leigh reached for Dorinda and pushed her back against the wall.
If he groped his way along it he would come to the front door. He had no
idea where the other light switches were, but in every civilized house
there is at least one which you can turn on as you come in from outside.
Disregarding the confusion of voices behind him, he made his way past a
door which he didn’t yet know to be that of the study, and arrived.
Reckoning from the groan, it might have been three quarters of a minute
before he found a switch and the light came on in the candles all round
the hall.

The scene rushed into view—everyone fixed in the sudden, startling
light—everyone fixed finally and distinctly in Justin’s thought. The
sketch he was to make an hour or two later shows everyone’s position. In
the open drawing-room door on the left, Mr. Tote staring in on what had
been darkness but had suddenly changed to most revealing light. Coming
down the stairs, but only three steps from the top, Leonard Carroll, one
hand on the baluster, one foot poised for the next descent. Round the
hearth, Dorinda where he had pushed her against the wall, Masterman,
Mrs. Tote, Miss Masterman, and on the far side Martin Oakley. Between
these people and the foot of the stair, two women and a man—Moira Lane,
Gregory Porlock, and Linnet Oakley.

He lay face downwards on the floor between them, one arm flung out, the
other doubled beneath him. Between his shoulder-blades something caught
the light—a burnished handle like a hilt, the handle of a dagger.

Everyone in the hall was looking at it. Having looked, Justin’s eyes
went to the panelling above the hearth. Between the sconces hung a
trophy of arms—crossed flintlocks; a sword with an ivory handle; a
sword in a tarnished velvet scabbard; a couple of long, fine rapiers;
half a dozen daggers. He looked for a break in the pattern and found it.
There was a gap in the inner ring—there was a dagger short. After the
briefest glance his eyes went back to that burnished hilt between
Gregory Porlock’s shoulders.

No one had spoken. No one moved. No one seemed to breathe, until Linnet
Oakley screamed. She screamed, took two steps forward, and went down on
her knees, calling out, “Oh, Glen! He’s dead! Glen’s dead—he’s dead!
Oh, Glen—Glen—_Glen!_”

It was like a stone dashed into a reflection. The picture broke.
Everyone moved, drew breath, exclaimed. Mr. Tote came out of the
drawing-room. Mr. Carroll came down the stairs. Moira took a backward
step, and then another, and another, all very slowly and stiffly, as if
the body inside her damask dress had been changed from flesh and blood
to something heavy, hard, and cold. She went on going back until she
struck against a chair and stood in front of it, quite still, quite
motionless, her face one even pallor, her eyes still fixed upon the spot
where Gregory Porlock lay.

Martin Oakley went to his wife. She wept hysterically and cast herself
into his arms, sobbing, “It’s Glen—and somebody’s killed him! He’s
dead—he’s dead—he’s _dead_!”




                                 XVIII


In an emergency some one person usually takes command. In this instance
it was Justin Leigh. He came quickly down the hall, knelt by the body,
clasped the outflung wrist for a long minute, and then got up and walked
to the bell on the left of the hearth, breast-high under a row of
switches. Standing there and waiting for the answer to his summons, he
looked briefly about him. Switches by the front door—the light hadn’t
been turned off from there. Switches here, on the left as you faced the
hearth, fifteen feet or so in a direct line from where Gregory had been
stabbed—anyone round the fire could have reached them. Switches by the
service door opening from the back of the hall where the panelled casing
of the stairway gave place to a recess—certainly anyone could have
opened that door with very little chance of being seen and have reached
for the lights. The door to the billiard-room was also in the recess, at
right angles to the service door—but the switches couldn’t have been
reached from there without coming out into the hall, with the strong
probability of being seen by someone near the fire.

As his mind registered these things, the service door opened and the
butler came in. Justin went a step or two to meet him, saw his face
change, and said,

“Mr. Porlock has been stabbed. He is dead. Will you ring up the police
and ask them to come as quickly as they can. Tell them nothing will be
touched. Come back as soon as you have got through.”

The man hesitated, seemed about to speak, and thought better of it. As
he turned and went out by the way he had come and Justin went back to
the body, Leonard Carroll came to a stand beside him and said quite low
out of the side of his mouth,

“Taking quite a lot on yourself, aren’t you? What about pulling out that
knife and giving the poor devil a chance?”

Justin shook his head.

“No use—he’s dead.”

“You seem very sure.”

“I was through the war.”

Carroll said, with something that just stopped short of being a laugh,

“Well, that lands us in for a game of Hunt the Murderer! I wonder who
did it. Whoever it was can reassure himself with the thought that the
painstaking local constabulary will probably obliterate any clues he may
have left.” He did laugh then, and added, “Now I do wonder who hated
Gregory enough to take a chance like this.”

Justin made no reply. He was looking at the group of people any one of
whom might be the answer to Leonard Carroll’s question. Mrs. Tote was
sitting in a small ornamental Sheraton chair. The waterproof she had
worn for the charade lay along at her feet with a horrid resemblance to
a second body, but she was still wearing the hat, an old-fashioned
wideawake, now tipped well to one side. Her small features were sternly
set. Perhaps the grey satin of her dress and the glitter of her diamonds
contributed to her pallor. She sat without moving, stiffly upright, her
hands in a rigid clasp, the large bediamonded rings still and unwinking.
Miss Masterman had remained standing, but not upright. She had hold of
the back of a chair and was bent forward over her straining hands. She
wore no rings, and every knuckle stood up white. As he looked Justin saw
her brother come over to her. He said something, and when she made no
reply fell back again to the edge of the hearth, where he bent down to
put a log on the fire. Linnet Oakley lay sobbing in a long armchair,
Dorinda on one side of her, Martin Oakley on the other. The pink and
white carnations which she had taken from the dinner-table to make a
wreath had for the most part fallen. There was one on the arm of the
chair, and one on her lap. A bud and a leaf hung down against her neck
like a pendant earring. Her face was hidden against her husband’s
shoulder. He looked across at Justin now, and said in a deep, harsh
voice,

“I’ve got to get my wife out of this—she’s ill.”

Justin crossed the space between them. He dropped his voice.

“I’m sorry, but I’m afraid you’ll have to wait until the police come.”

Their eyes met, Martin’s dark with anger.

“And who’s going to make me?”

Justin said, “Your own common sense, I should think.”

“What do you mean by that?”

“What do you suppose? Anyone who gets out is going to attract a good
deal more attention than it’s worth.”

There was a moment of extreme tension. There was something as well as
anger. Justin remembered that the Wicked Uncle’s name was Glen—Glen
Porteous. Mrs. Oakley had cried out that Glen was dead. Nine people had
heard her say it, as well as Martin Oakley. If he held his tongue, the
others couldn’t and wouldn’t. Mrs. Oakley, who had met Gregory Porlock
tonight as a stranger, would certainly have to explain to the police why
she had flung herself down weeping by his body and called him Glen. As
he went back to his post he saw one of her pink carnations. The heavy
bloom had broken off. It lay between Gregory Porlock’s left shoulder and
the thick curly hair.

Mr. Tote had gone over to stand beside his wife. Not a muscle of her
face moved. The small greyish eyes stared steadily down at her own
hands.

Leonard Carroll said sharply,

“What we all want is a drink.”

He was still where he had been, a yard or two from the body, staring at
it. There was a curious white mark on the back—a round pale smudge,
with the knife driven home in the centre of it.

It came to Justin with horror that the smudge was luminous paint.




                                  XIX


That Saturday night brought very little sleep to the Grange. With
dreadful suddenness it had ceased to be a private dwelling. Justin,
whose mother had been a devoted bee-keeper, could not help being
reminded of the moments when she used to remove part of the outer
covering and watch through a sheet of glass the private activities of
the hive. Cross the line which divides the law-abiding from the
law-breaker, and all cherished rights of privacy are gone. The police
surgeon, the photographer, the fingerprint man, Sergeant, Inspector,
Chief Constable—each and every one of them comes and takes a look
through just such a pane of glass and watches to see who shrinks from
the observing eye. Murder, which used to be one of the most private
things on earth, is now attended by a vast deal of ceremonial and
publicity, and whilst an efficient constabulary attended to its rites
Inspector Hughes sat in the study taking statements.

It was late before Martin Oakley was permitted to take his wife and her
secretary back to the Mill House, and later still before those who
remained could separate and go to bed, if not to sleep.

At ten o’clock on the Sunday morning Detective Sergeant Frank Abbott
rang up Miss Maud Silver at her flat in Montague Mansions.

“Miss Silver speaking.”

“This is Frank. I’m afraid I shan’t be able to come to tea. A bloke has
got himself stabbed in Surrey, and as everyone who can possibly have
done it hails from London and the corpse was London too, they’ve thrown
the job at us, and the Chief and I are off. What’s the odds you crop up
as we go along?”

Miss Silver gave her characteristic cough.

“That, my dear Frank, is hardly likely.”

She heard him heave an exaggerated sigh.

“I wish it were. Never a dull moment when you’re about. Uplift a
speciality—morals strictly attended to.”

“My dear Frank!”

“I’m afraid it’s a case of ‘Never the time, and the place, and the loved
one all together’. I must fly.”

Later on in the morning Justin rang up Dorinda.

“Are you all right?”

“Oh, yes.”

“Get any sleep?”

“Well——”

“I don’t suppose anyone did much. How is Mrs. Oakley?”

“Very upset.”

“I’d come up and see you, but I hear the job’s been turned over to
Scotland Yard. They may walk in at any moment now, so I think I’d better
be here. They’ll want to see everyone of course.”

There was a pause. Then Dorinda said,

“Horrid for you—but, oh, it does make such a difference your being in
it too!”

He said firmly, “Neither of us is in it,” and rang off.

Actually, Chief Detective Inspector Lamb and Sergeant Abbott did not
reach the Grange until a little after two o’clock, having meanwhile
conferred with Inspector Hughes, gone through the statements which he
had obtained, and partaken of a mediocre lunch at the local inn.

Admitted by the butler, Lamb stared hard at him before letting him take
his coat and hat. Coming in out of the grey afternoon light, the hall
seemed middling dark. The man threw open the first door on the right and
stood aside to let them pass into the study. The Chief Inspector walked
as far as the writing-table and, turning, called him.

“Come in and shut the door! You’re the butler?”

“Yes, sir.”

The light from three windows showed a middle-aged man with a slight
forward stoop, thinning hair, brown eyes, and rather hollow cheeks.

Lamb said sharply, “Pearson! I thought so!”

The butler did not speak, only lifted his eyes with a deprecatory
expression and stood there waiting.

Frank Abbott looked from one to the other and waited too.

Very deliberately the Chief Inspector pulled up a chair to the table and
sat down. He was in the habit of judging the furniture in a house by the
way in which any given chair stood up to his weight. Since this one
received him without a protesting creak, it was approved. Perhaps he
judged men by the manner in which they sustained his formidable stare.
If so, Pearson would not come off so badly. He stood there, meek,
elderly, and silent, but not very much discomposed. The stare continued.

“Pearson! My word! I didn’t expect to see you here, and I don’t suppose
you thought of seeing me.”

“No, sir.”

“You’re butler here?”

“Yes, sir.”

“What’s the game?” Lamb shifted his gaze to Sergeant Abbott, who had
been an interested spectator. “This is Mr. Ernest Pearson of the Blake
Detective Agency. Used to be in the Force—invalided out.” He turned
back again. “Come along, man—out with it! What are you doing here?”

“Well——”

Lamb gave the table a sudden bang with his fist.

“What’s the good of humming and hawing? This is murder. You don’t need
me to tell you that any private game you may have had will just have to
go to the wall. Why are you here?”

The mild brown eyes were still deprecatory, but not alarmed.

“I know that, sir. I was just thinking how I could put it. The fact is,
it’s a bit delicate. Mr. Blake sent me down here to watch Mr. Porlock.”

“Divorce?”

“Oh, no, sir——” He hesitated, and then came out with it—“blackmail.”

Frank Abbott’s eyebrows rose. The Chief Inspector allowed himself to
whistle.

A faint shade of melancholy triumph invaded Pearson’s manner as he
repeated the word.

“Blackmail—that was Mr. Porlock’s business. One of our clients was in a
terrible state over it—something he’d got on her, she wouldn’t tell us
what. So Mr. Blake, he sent me here to see if I couldn’t get something
that would scare Mr. Porlock off.”

“Blackmailing the blackmailer—eh?”

“Oh, no, sir.”

Lamb gave a short laugh.

“What else? But that’s not my pigeon. You say Porlock was a blackmailer.
Have you any evidence of that?”

Pearson diffused a certain modest pride.

“Only what I’ve heard with my own ears.”

Frank Abbott had drawn a chair up to the far side of the table. His
overcoat removed, he was seen to be elegantly attired—grey suit, grey
socks, a blue and grey tie, a blue and grey handkerchief just showing
above the line of the pocket. As always, his very fair hair was slicked
back and mirror-smooth, his light eyes cool and observant, his manner
cool and detached. Lamb jerked a “Notes, Frank,” over his shoulder, and
the long, pale hand began to move busily above a writing-pad.

Lamb leaned forward, a hand on either knee, his body vigorous in spite
of the flesh it carried, his florid face expressionless under the thatch
of strong dark hair just beginning to thin away from the crown. He
looked at Pearson and repeated his words.

“What you heard with your own ears? Do you mean that he was blackmailing
any of these people in the house?”

The shade of triumph deepened.

“Most of them, I should say.”

“If that’s the case, you’d better pull up a chair and we’ll get down to
it.”

Quietly and deferentially Mr. Ernest Pearson fetched himself a chair.
When he was seated, hands folded, feet nearly together, he coughed and
observed that it was a little hard to know where to begin.

Frank Abbott leaned across the table to lay a list of names before his
Chief. It was received with a grunt and a nod. Lamb read from it the
names of Mr. and Mrs. Tote.

“Know anything about them?”

“Oh, yes. Him and Mr. Porlock had very high words in this room after tea
yesterday. By leaving the door unlatched after attending to the fire I
was enabled to overhear part of what passed between them. A butler has
great advantages in the line of overhearing conversations, if I may say
so. What with taking in drinks, and fetching out trays, and attending to
fires, he can pretty nearly always have an excuse for being close to a
door, and with a centrally heated house no draught is felt if the door
should be left on the jar.”

Frank Abbott’s hand covered his lips for a moment. Mr. Pearson’s meek
ingenuity had threatened him with a smile. Lamb’s face remained a
frowning blank. He said,

“You overheard a conversation between Porlock and Mr. Tote?”

The mild brown eyes met his without a tremor.

“Part of it, sir. Mr. Porlock was saying things to Mr. Tote that made
him very angry—Mr. Tote, if you take my meaning.”

“What sort of things?”

“Well, you couldn’t call it anything else except blackmail—you really
couldn’t. Mr. Tote, he used the word himself—fairly shouted it out. And
then there was one of the maids come through the hall and I was bound to
move away. I crossed over to the morning-room on the other side of the
hall, and when I got back Mr. Porlock, he was saying, ‘Well, there’s two
can swear to time and place, and you know as well as I do that if the
police begin to look into it there’d be plenty more.’ ”

“What were they talking about?”

“Black market, sir. Mr. Porlock, he put it to him straight when he tried
to explain it away. ‘You can tell that to Scotland Yard’, he said. ‘I
suppose you think they’ll believe you,’ he said. ‘And if they don’t, you
can always try the Marines!’, he said, and he laughed hearty. Very fond
of a joke, Mr. Porlock was.”

“And did Mr. Tote laugh too?”

“Oh, no, sir—he cursed and swore something shocking. And Mr. Porlock
said, ‘Come, come, Tote—you’ve made a pot of money, and if you won’t
spare a thousand to shut these men’s mouths you don’t deserve to keep
it.’ And Mr. Tote said, ‘Shut their mouths, my foot! It’s your mouth
wants shutting, and if you don’t look out you’ll get it shut so that
it’ll stay that way! I’m not a man to be blackmailed!’ And Mr. Porlock
laughs very pleasant and says, ‘Black market or blackmail—you pay your
money and you take your choice.’ ”

Lamb’s frown deepened.

“You say Mr. Tote was threatening him?”

“He used the words I’ve said, and his manner was very threatening too,
sir.”

“Hear any more?”

“No, sir. Mr. Tote got up—using very violent language, he was. So I
went back and attended to the hall fire until he came out, which he did
almost at once, and off up the stairs, as red as a turkey cock.”

Without moving his position Lamb said,

“That’s Tote. Who else?”

Mr. Pearson hesitated slightly.

“Well, sir, Mr. Porlock came out of the study and went into the
drawing-room. But he didn’t stay there. He came out again with Miss
Masterman and her brother and took them off to the billiard-room, so I
went to lay the table for dinner. That’s the dining-room, sir, on the
other side of that wall behind you, and where those book-shelves are
there’s a door going through. You can see it on the other side, but of
course it can’t be used because of the shelves. Still, you know how it
is—voices carry through a door the way they wouldn’t if it was a wall.
And presently I could hear that Mr. Porlock was in the study again, and
one of the ladies with him, so I went up close—polishing my silver in
case of anyone coming in.”

“Well?”

Ernest Pearson looked mournful and shook his head.

“Not very satisfactory, I’m afraid, except that it was Miss Lane he’d
got with him, and there was something about a bracelet, and I heard her
say, ‘I shouldn’t like my cousin to know’, and something about being in
a frightful hole and having to have the money. I don’t find a lady’s
voice quite so easy to follow—not so resonant, if you take me. Now Mr.
Porlock, he had what I should call a ring in his voice—I could hear him
all right. I don’t know what you’ll make of it, but this is what he
said—‘Well, don’t sell it again. It’s a bit too dangerous—someone else
might recognize it next time.’ And then he said, ‘I’ve got the receipted
bill, you know. It describes the bracelet. You can have till Monday
morning to make up your mind. Meanwhile we’ll call a truce.’ And I
couldn’t help noticing when she came down to dinner that Miss Lane was
wearing a very valuable diamond and ruby bracelet.”

Lamb grunted.

“You said you didn’t know what I’d make of all this. What do you make of
it yourself?”

“Well, sir, with one thing and another, it did come into my mind to
wonder about Miss Lane selling the bracelet—whether she had the right
to, as you might say. I certainly got the impression that Mr. Porlock
thought he’d got something he could use against her. But it didn’t look
to me as if it was money he wanted, because if he bought that bracelet
he must have paid a lot of money for it. It looked to me as if there was
something he wanted Miss Lane to do, and she didn’t want to, so he was
giving her time to think it over. She’s a lady that goes about a
lot—very well connected, as you might say. A high-class blackmailer
like Mr. Porlock—well, there are ways a lady like Miss Lane could be a
lot of use to him.”

Lamb’s grunt may have meant that he agreed. On the other hand it may
just have been a grunt.

Frank Abbott’s pencil travelled, and his thoughts too. What a case! What
a pity to have to hang even a Tote for removing a blackmailer from the
body politic. Perhaps it wasn’t Tote. He hoped quite dispassionately
that it wasn’t the lady who might or might not have stolen a diamond and
ruby bracelet. But perhaps there were others.... He turned his attention
to Pearson, who was at that moment producing Mr. Leonard Carroll like a
rabbit out of a hat.

“_The_ Leonard Carroll!” he exclaimed.

Lamb turned the frown his way.

“Know him?”

“Society entertainer. Clever—sophisticated—very much the rage at the
moment. I don’t know him personally. If I did I should probably dislike
him quite a lot.”

The Chief Inspector enquired darkly,

“One of these crooners?”

“Oh, no, sir. There’s always a bright spot, isn’t there? It is nice to
reflect that whatever else he has done, he has never crooned.”

“Well, what _has_ he done?” growled Lamb.

“Perhaps Pearson is going to tell us, sir.”

Ernest Pearson had plenty to tell. Mr. Carroll had arrived later than
any of the other guests. He had gone straight into the study, and
circumstances being favourable, there had been some very satisfactory
listening-in. “Everyone being upstairs dressing for dinner, as you might
say. Which of course Mr. Carroll would count on, for there wasn’t any
keeping his voice down. Not exactly loud, if you know what I mean, but
very carrying.”

“What did he say?”

“It’s more what didn’t he say, sir—or what both of them didn’t say. Mr.
Carroll, he started in hammer and tongs. ‘What’s all this about
Tauscher? I don’t know the man from Adam. Who is he—what is he? You’re
a damned blackmailer, and I’ve come down here to tell you so!’ And Mr.
Porlock says, ‘You’ve come down here to save your neck.’ ”

The Chief Inspector whistled.

“His neck—eh? What had he been up to—murder?”

Pearson shook his head.

“Worse, if you’ll excuse my saying so. Because there’s murders you can
understand how a man came to do them. I wouldn’t like you to think I was
excusing them, but you can see how they got there. But meeting enemy
agents on the sly when you were supposed to be out with a concert party
entertaining the troops, and giving things away that might mean hundreds
of lives—well, that’s the sort of thing that nobody can understand
except those that have demeaned themselves to do it.” A dull flush
coloured his cheek-bones as he spoke. “I’d a boy out there myself in
‘forty-five, and I’ve got my feelings.”

Lamb said, “That’s all right. What did you hear?”

“Well, it was a bit here and a bit there. Seems there’s a man called
Tauscher that Mr. Porlock got his information from, and according to Mr.
P. this is what it amounted to. Tauscher says he had a brother who was a
Nazi agent. When this brother died—he got bumped off towards the end of
the war—this Tauscher opened up a box of papers his brother had left
with him. That’s Mr. Porlock’s story, if you understand, and I’m not
saying how much of it’s true. All I say is, he put it to Mr. Carroll
that Tauscher had left notes of their meetings which incriminated him up
to the hilt, and what did he propose to do about it? Mr. Carroll, he
uses most awful language and says it’s all a lie, and Mr. Porlock laughs
and says of course he knows his own business best, and if that’s the way
he feels, then it don’t matter about Tauscher going ahead and turning
his brother’s papers over to our people out there—it being his idea to
show what a good German he is by doing so. I thought Mr. Carroll was
going to have a fit—I really did, sir. And anything like the
language—well, you know what you come across in the way of business,
but I give you my word it was enough to curl your hair. Mr. Porlock, he
just laughed very pleasantly and said, ‘We won’t say another word about
it, my dear fellow.’ And Mr. Carroll says, fit to kill, ‘How much do you
want, damn you?’ ”

Sergeant Abbott, having written this down, looked across at his Chief
and observed,

“Quite a party——”

He received no reply. Lamb’s frown had become ferocious. His eyes, which
that irreverent young man was in the habit of comparing to bullseyes,
were definitely bulging. He said on a deep growling note,

“Is that the lot?”

Pearson sustained both growl and frown with an air of conscious virtue
just perceptibly tinged with regret.

“In the matter of Mr. Masterman, I was quite unable to hear as much as I
should have wished.”

“Masterman?” Lamb’s voice threatened to rise. His colour had deepened to
a rich plum.

“Oh, yes, sir. Mr. Porlock took him off into the study before tea, and
what with having my duties and other guests arriving, the hall was
really not available as, if I may put it that way, an observation post.
I was thrown back upon the dining-room, where the conditions for
listening are not at all what I should describe as satisfactory. The
parlourmaid came in once or twice about the silver, and altogether the
only things I can swear to are that there was a quarrel going on, that
Mr. Masterman used the word blackmail, and that there was some mention
of a missing will. But I happened to be in the hall when Mr. Masterman
came out of the study, and the way he looked—well, what it reminded me
of was a Channel crossing on a rough day. The wife and I used to be very
partial to one of those day trips to Boulogne before the war. Very good
sailors, both of us, but you know how it is with a choppy sea—the way
most people look. Well, I couldn’t compare Mr. Masterman with nothing
else.”

“Look here, Pearson, you’re not making this up?”

“_Me_, sir?”

“Because you’d better be careful. You’re not on what I should call very
firm ground, you know. Let’s see—you say in your statement to Inspector
Hughes that you were in the servants’ hall having supper at the time of
the murder——” He picked up a paper from the table in front of him and
read: “ ‘I had fetched out the coffee-tray from the drawing-room about a
quarter of an hour or twenty minutes earlier. I did not go through to
the front of the house again till the bell rang. During this time I was
in the company of the cook, the parlourmaid, and the head-housemaid.’
Anything to add to that?”

“No, sir.”

“Sure you didn’t go through to the hall between taking out the
coffee-tray and answering the bell after the murder had happened?”

“Quite sure.” Mr. Pearson’s tone was one of reasonable protest. “The
Blake Agency gives good service, sir. The clients’ interests are our
study, but it wouldn’t run to murder—now _really_, sir!”

Lamb said grimly, “I suppose it wouldn’t.”




                                   XX


Some time later, Pearson having departed with instructions to ask Mr.
Justin Leigh if he would come and speak to the Chief Inspector, Sergeant
Abbott said,

“Plenty of suspects, sir.”

If he had thought this the moment to provoke a reprimand, he might have
added, “_Embarras de richesse_”. Quotations from foreign languages being
so many red rags to the official bull, he judged it better to abstain.
There would, for one thing, hardly be time for the Chief to do himself
justice on the kindling theme of Police College pups and wind in the
head engendered by over-education. Frank Abbott knew most of it by
heart, and would have been sorry if the salt had lost its savour. As it
was, he got a grunt and a “Just about beats the band!”

Taking this as encouragement, Frank proceeded.

“If Pearson is to be believed—it all seems to turn on that, doesn’t
it?”

Lamb grunted.

“There’s nothing against Pearson. He’d a good character in the force.
Had a bad accident and was invalided out. He got better after a year or
two and went to Blake’s. It’s a respectable agency.”

Frank balanced his pencil thoughtfully.

“If Porlock was a blackmailer, almost anyone may have bumped him off.
Seems a pity anyone should be hanged for it.”

“Now,” said Lamb, “none of that! The law’s the law, and duty’s duty.
Murder’s no way to set things right. Don’t you let me hear you talk like
that! There’s no reason why Pearson shouldn’t be telling the truth, and
I expect he is. He hasn’t got any axe to grind that I can see. So if we
take what he says, Porlock was blackmailing Tote and Carroll for
certain, and both of them for pretty serious offences. Masterman and
Miss Lane are only probables. There may be others. We’ll see if Mr.
Leigh can tell us anything. By what Pearson says, he was giving the
orders after it happened. The man who keeps his head is the man who is
likely to have noticed things. It’s no good saying I wish we could have
been here before they moved everything. The locals have done a pretty
good job with photographs and all, but it’s a handicap all the same.
Photographs and fingerprints are all very well, but they don’t give you
the feel of a place and the people. We come into it a matter of eighteen
hours after it’s happened and everyone’s had time to tighten up and
think what they’re going to say. If you can get there before they’ve got
their balance you’re going to get something a good deal nearer the
truth—especially from the women. And I don’t mean that just for the
guilty parties. It’s astonishing what a lot of people have got something
they’d like to hide or dress up a bit different for the police. Why, I
remember thirty years ago there was a woman carried on as guilty as you
please, telling lies as quick as shelling peas, and all it came to in
the end—she wore a wig and she didn’t want her husband to find out.
Well, here’s Mr. Leigh.”

He introduced himself and Frank with solid dignity.

“Detective Inspector Lamb of Scotland Yard, and Sergeant Abbott. Sit
down, Mr. Leigh. I hope you will be able to help us. I’ve got your
statement here, and I’d like to ask you a few questions. Now, how well
did you know Mr. Porlock?”

Justin had been thinking that these two were interesting examples of the
old-style policeman and the new. Lamb the product of village school,
secondary education, and the wide, unsurpassable university of
experience. Solid as English earth and English beef, that’s what he
looked. The countryman’s burr on his tongue, the countryman’s balanced
shrewdness in his eye. Just so the bargaining farmer balancing prices
against pigs and heifers. These were larger matters, but the shrewdness
and the competence were the same. Abbott might be any young man in his
own club—public school—Police College—clothes that looked as if they
came from Savile Row—noticeably well-kept hands. He wondered if he
would ever fill the old man’s boots. He didn’t look as if he would, but
you never could tell. The impression passed in a flash. He said,

“I didn’t know Mr. Porlock at all. I never met him until yesterday when
I arrived here with Miss Lane in time for tea.”

Lamb nodded.

“Miss Lane brought you—then you know her?”

“I know her very well. Perhaps I’d better explain. Mrs. Oakley’s
secretary, Dorinda Brown, is my cousin. She has only just gone to the
job, and as she is quite young and I’m her only relation, I thought I
would like to meet the Oakleys. I was trying to find out something about
them, and to meet someone who knew them. Porlock’s name was mentioned as
being a near neighbour of theirs in the country, and very friendly with
Martin Oakley.”

“Who mentioned it?”

“It was Miss Lane. So when she said she was coming down here for the
week-end and she could easily ring up and suggest bringing me, I rather
jumped at it.”

“Miss Lane knew Mr. Porlock well?”

“I don’t know how well she knew him. They seemed to be on very friendly
terms. She told me he loved entertaining and practically kept open
house. He was certainly a most genial host.”

“How did he strike you, Mr. Leigh?”

Justin considered.

“Well, he was what I’ve just said, a genial host. A lot of social
charm—all that sort of thing. And enjoying himself. That’s what struck
me more than anything else. It was an ill-assorted, uphill party, and it
must have been hard work, but I’d swear he was enjoying himself.”

Lamb focussed the stare upon him.

“Just what do you mean by ill-assorted, Mr. Leigh?”

Justin’s charming smile appeared.

“You won’t ask me that after you’ve met them.”

Lamb grunted and let it go.

“Anyone appear to be out of sorts—nervous—out of temper?”

“Well, of course I don’t know what Mr. Tote’s like as a rule, but I
suppose you could say he was put out.” He laughed a little. “That’s
putting it mildly. He didn’t talk, he didn’t join in any of the games.
He looked as if he was in a foul temper, and just sat.”

“Eat his dinner?”

Justin couldn’t help laughing.

“Everything he could get hold of. Porlock has a marvellous cook.”

“Anyone else seem put out?”

“Well, as I said, I don’t know these people. Masterman may go about
looking like a death’s head all the time—he was certainly spreading
gloom last night. The sister looks as if she hadn’t smiled for years.”

“Mr. Leigh, I’d like to ask you something, but of course you don’t need
to answer if you don’t care to. It’s not anything personal. I’d just
like to know how Mr. Gregory Porlock struck you. You said he had a lot
of what you’d call charm. What I’d like to know is just this—would you
have said he was straight?”

Well—would he? He wondered what he would have thought if he hadn’t
known what he did. Very difficult to divest yourself of knowledge and
decide what your mental processes would have been without it. Once
Dorinda had said “He’s the Wicked Uncle”, he couldn’t go back and judge
the man as Gregory Porlock. And was he going to tell the Chief Inspector
about the Wicked Uncle? He thought not. Dorinda would almost certainly
do so—the art of practising a concealment was one to which she would
never attain. There was something reposeful in the thought. He decided
that she might be left to deal with the Wicked Uncle in her own
ingenuous manner. Meanwhile there was no reason why he shouldn’t say
what he thought. With no more than what seemed quite an ordinary pause
for consideration he replied,

“No, I don’t think I would.”

After a moment or two, during which he appeared to be digesting this
answer, Lamb returned to the charge.

“I’d like to ask you something in confidence. These people who were here
last night—they were all strangers to you except Miss Lane?”

Justin nodded. “And my cousin, Dorinda Brown.” He wondered what was
coming.

“They say lookers-on see most of the game. You’ll understand this isn’t
to be talked of, but what I’d like to know is this—would it surprise
you to hear that some of these people were being blackmailed?”

“By Porlock?”

“You’ve got it.”

“Well then—no.”

Lamb leaned forward.

“Which would you pick on, Mr. Leigh, if you had to make a guess?”

Justin frowned.

“I don’t think I care about guessing in a murder case.”

Lamb gave a slow, ponderous nod.

“I’ll put it another way. We have evidence that two of the party were
being blackmailed. You’ve mentioned two of the party being out of
sorts—Mr. Tote and Mr. Masterman. What about the others? Any sign of
relations being strained?—with Mr. Porlock I mean. What about Mr.
Carroll?”

Justin said, “Carroll is an actor.” The words were no sooner out than he
regretted them. He said quickly, “I shouldn’t have said that. I don’t
like the fellow, but there was nothing to make me say what I did.”

Another of those slow nods.

“That’s all right, Mr. Leigh.”

The questions went on. Everything that had been said or done came under
the microscope. Presently it was,

“Did you happen to notice that Miss Lane was wearing a bracelet—could
you describe it?”

He could, and did.

“A kind of diamond trellis—panels set with rubies.”

“Valuable?”

“Extremely, I should think.”

“Ever seen it before?”

“No. As a matter of fact, Miss Lane came into the drawing-room before
dinner and showed it to us. She said it has been lost, and Porlock had
got it back for her. She seemed very grateful.”

“Will you tell me as nearly as possible what was said?”

When he had done so the questions began again. The evening was gone
through down to the time of the murder.

“I’d like you to come out into the hall and show me just where you were
and what you did.”

Justin had the feeling that he would presently be doing it in his sleep.
Abbott timing him, he did just what he had done the night before in the
dark, finishing up at the front door with his hand on the light switch.

“And then?” This was Lamb, solid and observant, from the hearth.

“I came down to where Porlock was lying. You’ve got all that in my
statement.”

Lamb gave an affirmative grunt.

“And then you rang the bell and told Pearson to send for the police. Now
we’ll go back to the study.”

When they had got there he had another question.

“You knelt down by the body?”

“Yes. I felt for his pulse to see if he was dead.”

“He was lying on his face with the handle of the dagger sticking out
between his shoulder blades?”

“Yes.”

“Notice anything else—anything peculiar?”

“There was a white patch all round the dagger.”

“Know what it was?”

“I thought it was luminous paint—they’d been using it in the charade.”

“Did you think it could have come there by accident?”

“Not possibly.”

“How did you think it had come there?”

“I thought the murderer had marked him with the paint so as to be sure
of getting the right spot in the dark.”

“Now, Mr. Leigh—two questions. Who knew that there was luminous paint
in the house, and how soon did they know it?”

“I can’t answer that. It was certainly mentioned at dinner.”

“Will you tell me just what was said?”

Justin told him. Lamb went on.

“Then there were two lots of the stuff. The Oakleys had some to paint a
clock, and Porlock had some to paint the beam in the cloakroom—the pot
being in the cupboard there, where anyone could have got at it.”

“There was plenty of the stuff about. Carroll had it all over his hands
for the charade, and a luminous mask and horns. Miss Lane was dressed up
as a nun with a couple of towels and a sheet. Carroll jumped down on her
from that table against the stairs. She must have been fairly daubed
with the paint. As soon as the lights went on she got out of the stuff
she was wearing and threw it on the table. Carroll left his mask there.
Anyone could have picked up enough paint to put that mark on Porlock’s
back. We were all standing fairly close together round the hearth after
the charade was over. Anyone could have done it.”

“And no one noticed it, Mr. Leigh. At least no one admits to having
noticed it. Anyone could have done it, and anyone could have taken the
dagger, but nobody seems to have noticed that it was missing. I don’t
mean to say that there’s anything peculiar about that in a strange
house. That’s what strikes me—that it was a strange house. They all say
that in their statements except Miss Lane. She was the only one who had
ever been here before, and she couldn’t have known about the luminous
paint till the middle of dinner. Yet the crime was very carefully
planned. The person who planned it was bold, ingenious, quick-witted. He
used what was to hand—the dagger, the luminous paint, the charade. It
was Miss Lane who proposed the charade I think?”

“That was really quite an unwarrantable suggestion.” Justin had
stiffened a little. He said quietly, “Of all the guests Miss Lane was on
the best terms with Porlock.”

Lamb’s face was stolid.

“I’m not making suggestions, Mr. Leigh, I’m stating facts. That’s what
I’m here for—to collect facts. Now here’s a matter of fact about which
you can help us. I want to know just where everybody was when you turned
on the light. You’d have a good view of them all, looking down the hall
like that. Could you make me a rough sketch, do you think?”

“Yes. As a matter of fact I’ve made one.”

He produced a sheet of paper and pushed it over the table.

Frank Abbott got up and came round to look over Lamb’s shoulder. The two
of them studied the plan for some time. At last Lamb said,

“The two women were nearest to him, one on either side. Miss Lane
between you and the body. Mrs. Oakley on the far side. Was Mrs. Oakley
facing you?”

“Yes. She was facing towards the body.”

“How far off?”

Justin hesitated.

“Five or six feet.”

“And Miss Lane?”

“About the same distance. She had her back to me.”

“But you could see Mrs. Oakley’s face. How did she look?”

“Shocked—horrified.”

“And then she went down on her knees by the body, calling him Glen, and
saying that someone had killed him?”

“Yes.”

[Illustration: JUSTIN LEIGH’S PLAN OF THE HALL]




                                  XXI


The Chief Inspector continued to interview Mr. Porlock’s guests. He may
have got tired of asking the same questions over and over again, but his
manner did not vary. Some of the interviews were very short. Some may
have seemed intolerably long to the persons concerned.

Mr. Masterman came out of his interview with something of the complexion
already noticed by Ernest Pearson. On his way to his own room a bedroom
door opened and his sister called to him.

“Jeffrey—I want to speak to you.”

He said, “Then you can’t,” and went on.

But before he could reach his room, let alone slam himself in, she was
beside him, a hand on his arm. He could feel the tense, bony strength of
it through the stuff of his sleeve. She said in an almost soundless
whisper,

“If I can’t speak to you, I’ll go down and speak to them. Would you
rather I did that?”

He turned and looked at her. Women are capable of any folly if you push
them too far. He judged her capable of this. He said with cold
self-command,

“I’m not talking over anything in this house. If you like to put on your
coat and hat, we can go out.”

She left him without a word, and without a word came back again, the old
fur coat caught round her, the shabby black felt hat pulled on. They
went downstairs together, out by the front door, and through the garden
to the wide green expanse of the croquet lawn. The surface was not what
it had been in the days before the war when the Miss Pomeroys had given
croquet parties to their elderly friends, but it had one inalienable
merit, if you kept to the middle of the grass, no one could possibly
hear what you said, since no one could approach within earshot without
being seen.

It was not until they had reached this vantage-point that Masterman
broke the silence.

“What did you want to say to me? I think we had better walk up and down.
It will look more natural.”

She was clutching her coat in the same nervous grip with which she had
held his arm. Without looking at him she said,

“What did those men say to you? What did you tell them? What did they
want to know?”

He gave a slight shrug.

“The usual things—how long I’d known Porlock—whether this was our
first visit—what sort of terms we were on. Then all about yesterday
evening—the conversation at dinner——”

“What part of it?”

He threw her a sideways glance.

“If you’re too sharp you’ll cut yourself. If you want to know, he was
asking about the luminous paint. Porlock had been marked with it. You
must have seen the white smudge round the dagger. The police naturally
want to know who put it there, and the first step is to find out who
could have put it there. Unfortunately, anyone could have done it except
perhaps Tote—I don’t know about him. It’s funny no one can say for
certain whether Tote came out into the hall to watch the charade. It was
so dark he could have been there without anyone noticing him.”

She said rather breathlessly,

“He wasn’t there when you turned the lights on.”

“After the charade? No. But then he wouldn’t have been if he was going
to stab Porlock. He could have put the mark on him in the dark, slipped
out through the service door, and waited there. No one would have
noticed if that door had been ajar. Then when the charade was over and
the lights were on again he had only to go on waiting until Porlock
moved clear of the rest of us, as he did, and then turn off the
lights—there’s a set of switches by the service door. It wouldn’t take
him any time to reach Porlock, stab him, and get back to the
drawing-room doorway, where he was when the lights came on.”

She checked in her mechanical walk.

“Is that what happened?”

“My dear girl, how do I know? It could have happened that way.”

She drew a choking breath.

“Jeffrey——”

“Yes?”

“It wasn’t you——”

He gave a short laugh.

“Really, Agnes!”

“It wasn’t——”

He laughed again.

“No, my dear, it wasn’t. I don’t mind saying that there were moments
when I could have killed him with pleasure. But I didn’t do it. Somebody
saved me the trouble. The nuisance is, there’s been some
eavesdropping—the lantern-jawed butler, I imagine. And that Scotland
Yard Inspector seems to have got the idea that Porlock might have been
blackmailing me.”

Agnes Masterman’s dry lips parted on two words.

“He was.”

“You’d better not say that to the Inspector.” His tone hardened. “Do you
hear—you’re to hold your tongue! There’s no real evidence—I’m
practically sure of that. Something about a missing will—not very much
to go on there! He said part of my conversation with Porlock had been
overheard. He said the word blackmail had been overheard, and something
about a missing will. You’ve got to hold your tongue. Do you hear,
Agnes? Whatever he asked you, you just stick to it that Porlock’s a
business acquaintance of mine and you don’t know anything about my
business. You never met him before. He was very friendly. You stick to
that, and it will be quite all right.” The short, dry sentences jerked
themselves to a halt.

Agnes Masterman drew a long, desperate breath. She had always been
afraid of Jeffrey, always lacked the courage to face him. But she had to
find it now. Or never. At that prospect of drifting on through the
nightmare world which he had made for her she did find something. Words
which she has rehearsed over and over through interminable hours of
sleepless nights and locked away in her aching heart through
interminable days now came hurrying from her lips in a torrent of
shaking speech.

“Jeffrey, I can’t go on like this—indeed I can’t. You must tell me what
you did with Cousin Mabel’s will. You found it, and you took it away.
She told me you had taken it away. After I’d got her quiet she told me
she had got it out and was looking at it, and you came in and took it
away. She was dreadfully, dreadfully frightened—I oughtn’t to have left
her alone. Jeffrey, you’ve got to tell me—did you go back and frighten
her again or—or anything?”

Jeffrey Masterman said, “My dear Agnes, what morbid ideas you have! Why
on earth should I go back? I had the will. If Cousin Mabel hadn’t died
in her sleep during the night, I should doubtless have seen her again,
and I should probably have given her back the will—with some good
advice. As it was, there was no need—nature intervened. If you are
asking me whether I assisted nature—one may hold views on the iniquity
of old ladies leaving their money away from their own flesh and blood
without being a murderer, you know.”

She had stopped walking. Everything in her seemed to be concentrated in
the look she bent upon his face.

“Jeffrey, will you swear you didn’t go back—didn’t frighten her—touch
her?”

He said, “I will if you like. What’s the good of swearing? Let’s stick
to plain facts. I didn’t go back.”

He could see that she believed him—perhaps better than if he had made
any protestations. He was aware of her relaxing, letting go. Her breast
lifted in a long sigh, and then another. He put a hand on her arm and
said,

“We’d better walk. It looks odd our standing here talking.”

They had gone a little way before she said in a different voice, more
alive, more natural,

“What was in the will? You’d better tell me.”

He laughed.

“Oh, you come off all right! You get your fifty thousand all the
same—‘To my dear cousin Agnes Masterman who has always been very kind
to me’!” He gave that angry laugh again. “But I only get a beggarly five
thousand, and no ‘dear’ in front of my name, while a solid forty-five
thousand goes down the drain in charity! Do you expect me to lie down
under that?”

The colour sprang into her cheeks. Just for a moment you could see what
she would look like if she were happy. Her eyes brightened and her voice
rang.

“But, Jeffrey—why didn’t you tell me? We can put the whole thing right.
You can have the money—I don’t want it. You can take the fifty thousand
and let me have what she was leaving you. You’ve only got to go to the
solicitors and say you’ve found this later will. You can say it was
hidden in her biscuit-box—and that’s absolutely true, because that’s
where she did hide it, poor old thing. There won’t be any risk about it
at all, and we’ll get rid of this nightmare which is killing me. It is,
Jeffrey—it is!”

Her voice throbbed with passion though she kept it low. Her very walk
had changed. It was she who had quickened the pace.

He looked at her with surprise.

“My dear Agnes—how vehement! If you really want to give forty-five
thousand pounds away in charity, I don’t suppose I shall interfere. I’d
no idea you had such an expensive conscience. I advise you to bridle it.
Anyhow I haven’t got the will in my pocket, and Trower and Wakefield
don’t live over the way, so I think the whole matter can wait until we
get home. Meanwhile you’ll please to remember that if there’s any
trouble over this Porlock business, any encouragement of the blackmail
idea, I shan’t be in a position to produce that will. So if you want it
produced you’ve got to put up a pretty good show for Scotland Yard.”




                                  XXII


Mr. Carroll came into the study with a jaunty air. The cold blue eyes of
Sergeant Abbott took him in from head to foot. Their owner decided that
the fellow was putting on an act. Might mean nothing—putting on acts
being more or less second nature to an actor. Might mean something to
hide—according to Pearson, quite a lot. He sustained a slightly
insolent return stare with equanimity and took up his pencil.

Mr. Carroll’s act, which permitted a derogatory glance at the Sergeant,
tumbled over itself with bright helpfulness towards the Chief Inspector.

“You’ll understand I don’t know any of these people except Miss
Lane—I’ve met her of course. But anything I can do to be of any
help——”

“I take it you knew Mr. Porlock?”

Mr. Carroll’s crooked eyebrow rose.

“As a matter of fact, hardly at all. I’d met him once or twice in houses
where I’ve had a professional engagement, so when he offered me one for
this week-end——”

“You were here professionally?”

The eyebrow twitched, the whole side of the face twitched in a crooked
smile.

“My dear man, have you seen the rest of the house-party? Wild horses
wouldn’t have got me anywhere near them if I hadn’t been paid for it!
And I don’t mind telling you I was going to put it to Porlock that I’d
expect a bonus.” He settled himself back in his chair with a gesture
which dismissed the Totes and Mastermans to some appropriate limbo, and
said, “Well, go ahead—ask me all the questions you want to. I’m quite
at your disposal, but not, I’m afraid, very useful. You see, I’d gone
upstairs to wash after the charade—I was all smothered in paint—so I
wasn’t on the scene when Porlock was knifed.”

“So I understand. This is Mr. Leigh’s sketch of the hall, showing
everyone’s position when the lights came on after the murder.” He passed
the paper across. “Will you take a look at it and tell me whether it
corresponds with what you remember.”

Leonard Carroll looked, nodded, passed it back again, all between a
couple of breaths.

“That’s O.K. by me. I was about the third step down. Tote coming out of
the drawing-room. At least—” one side of his lip lifted a trifle—“I
suppose that’s what it was meant to look like. And Moira Lane and Mrs.
Oakley one on either side of Porlock. All very arresting and
dramatic—especially when Mrs. Oakley went down on her knees and began
to scream ‘Glen—Glen! Someone’s killed Glen!’ I suppose you can’t tell
me why she called him Glen, can you? As his name was Gregory, and his
friends all called him Greg, one couldn’t help wondering, could one?
Especially as I understand he had only met the lady once, a couple of
days before. In which case her emotion seemed a little excessive, and
one wondered how she came by quite a different Christian name.”

Lamb said, “Quite so. Now, Mr. Carroll—about your own movements. I have
your statement here.” He lifted a paper from the blotting-pad. “I see
you say that when the lights came on after the charade was over you were
standing on that oak table in the hall, with Miss Lane just below. You
were wearing a paper mask covered with luminous paint. You took it off
and dropped it on the table. You then came forward, received the
congratulations of your audience, and made your way upstairs to get the
paint off your hands. Why did you go upstairs? The cloakroom was nearer,
wasn’t it?”

“I’d left my dinner-jacket in my room. I was wearing a pullover.”

“How long were you away?”

“I don’t know—a few minutes.”

“You got the paint off your hands very quickly.”

Carroll gave his crooked smile.

“I’m a professional. You have to be quick between turns.”

“I see.”

“I wish I could be of more use. But there it is—I was well out of the
way. I had just got to the top of the stairs, when the lights went out.”

“Could you see the hearth? There are switches there on the left—could
you see who was nearest to them?”

“Afraid not. I’d just come to the corner. As soon as I got there the
lights went out.”

Lamb leaned forward.

“Mr. Carroll, there are four sets of switches. The hall lights can be
turned on or off from any of the four.”

“I’m afraid I don’t know anything about that.”

“Yet you arranged that the lights should be turned off for your charade
and then turned on again.”

Carroll shrugged.

“Sorry—my mistake. I knew about the switches by the hearth of course.
Masterman was in charge of the lighting for the charade—any other
switches didn’t come into it.”

Lamb resumed.

“There are four sets of switches—one at the front door, one on the
left-hand side of the hearth, one by the service door at the back of the
hall, and one at the top of the stairs. Mr. Leigh turned the lights on
at the front door after Mr. Porlock had been stabbed. There are his
fingerprints on the switch. I think we may take it as certain that the
lights were not turned off from there. That leaves the three other
switches. You say Mr. Masterman used the switch by the hearth to turn
the lights on after the charade?”

“Yes.”

“Well, that accounts for his fingerprints on that switch. If anyone else
had touched it after he did, his prints would have been spoiled.”

“Perhaps he touched it again himself.”

“Just so. But there are two other switches that might have been
used—the one by the service door, and the one at the top of the
stairs.”

Leonard Carroll laughed.

“So handy for me! Sorry to disappoint you, but I didn’t even know that
the switch was there. If I had known, and had wanted to stick a knife
into Porlock—incidentally depriving myself of quite a handsome fee—how
do you suppose I managed it? I should have had to fly down and back
again, to reach him and be where Leigh saw me when the lights came on.
I’m afraid it couldn’t be done.”

Lamb showed a stolid face.

“Oh, I think it could. In theory, Mr. Carroll—of course just in theory.
A slide down the banisters would be almost as quick as flying. And Mr.
Porlock would be quite handy when you got down—very handy indeed, with
his back towards you, and the best place to strike marked out in
luminous paint. As to getting back—if you went up two steps at a time
as you did before, I should say it could be done whilst Mr. Leigh was
feeling his way to the front door.”

Leonard Carroll had turned an ugly colour. The Chief Inspector would
have described it as tallowy. Sweat glistened on his temples, his eyes
shifted. It was a moment before he said,

“Is this a joke?”

Lamb said, “I don’t joke on duty, Mr. Carroll. You said it couldn’t be
done, and I was showing you that it could. I don’t say it _was_ done,
but it could have been—just as a matter of theory.”

Frank Abbott saw a curious thing. The hand on Carroll’s knee didn’t
close. It stiffened—he got the impression that it would have clenched
if a very strong effort had not held it open. When he looked higher than
the hand he saw evidence of a similar restraint—in the muscles of the
throat and face. If angry blood had an urge to rise, it was being
frozen. If angry words leapt to the tongue, they were halted there.

Lamb’s gaze dwelt upon these phenomena with bovine calm. Frank Abbott’s
glance flicked over him and came back to his notes. There was scarcely a
pause before the Chief Inspector went on.

“You see, Mr. Carroll, I am bound to consider the possibilities of the
case. The idea that it was physically impossible for you to stab Mr.
Porlock is one which you really mustn’t ask me to accept. Whether you
had any motive for wishing him out of the way is another matter. You say
you only knew him slightly.”

The hand that hadn’t been allowed to clench had relaxed.

“Well, you know, you can hardly say I knew him at all—a couple of
casual meetings in somebody else’s house, and a professional
engagement——” He shrugged.

“Meaning you didn’t know him well enough to quarrel with?”

No one could say that Carroll wasn’t quick. He burst out laughing.

“Well, I wouldn’t go as far as that. You can always quarrel if you’re
feeling quarrelsome, whether it’s the first time you meet a man or not.
But it would hardly go the length of murder—would it?”

Lamb’s mental comment was that Mr. Carroll was as slippery as an eel.
Quick in the uptake too—and that’s what he was looking for. It was
someone uncommon quick and clever who had murdered Gregory Porlock. He
said in his measured voice,

“That’s as may be. You had a quarrel with Mr. Porlock in this room not
long before dinner, didn’t you?”

“I had a talk with him, and a couple of drinks.”

“You asked him, ‘What’s all this about Tauscher?’ and you called Mr.
Porlock a damned blackmailer and said you’d come down here to tell him
so. And he said, ‘You’ve come down here to save your neck.’ ”

If the first shock of danger had brought the sweat to Mr. Carroll’s face
and stopped his tongue, he was now over the worst of it and very much in
command of his faculties. He said,

“What’s all this rubbish?”

Lamb looked at him with gravity.

“Your conversation was overheard.”

He took that without a tremor.

“Then whoever overheard it was a damned bad listener. Porlock asked me
if I knew a man called Tauscher, and I said I didn’t know him from
Adam.”

“There’s a good deal more to it than that, Mr. Carroll. I understand
that this man was an enemy agent, and that Mr. Porlock was suggesting
that you had met him when you were out with a concert party entertaining
the troops at a time when the war was still going on, and that you
supplied him with information likely to be of use to the Nazis.... No,
no, no—wait a minute—wait a minute, if you please! It’s not me that’s
putting out these suggestions. I’m only telling you that Mr. Porlock was
overheard putting them out—and I suppose you would agree that there
would be the makings of a quarrel in that.”

There was another of those twists, for Mr. Carroll laughed.

“I’m afraid your eavesdropper was a bit handicapped by being on the
other side of the door! A pity he didn’t come in and join us! Then he’d
have got the matter straight! Porlock told me this man Tauscher was an
enemy agent. Said he was knocking about in Belgium about the time I was
there, and asked me if I’d met him. I wasn’t best pleased—I thought it
was an offensive thing to say. I let Porlock see I didn’t like it—I
mean—well, who would? I’d never seen the fellow in my life, and on the
top of telling me he’s an enemy agent he asks me if I know him. I don’t
mind owning I lost my temper. But you don’t murder a man because he’s
been a bit tactless. I mean—well, do you?”




                                 XXIII


Lamb sat back and said, “Well——”

Frank Abbott transferred his gaze from the door which had recently
closed upon Leonard Carroll to his Chief’s face. It was a cool and
sarcastic gaze. It conveyed an opinion of Mr. Carroll which would hardly
have pleased him.

“Well, sir?”

“I’m asking you.”

There was nothing in this to minister to a junior officer’s self-esteem.
Schoolboys do not get wind in the head when the schoolmaster asks them a
question. All this, and more, was not only a well established fact, but
was even now conveyed by the Chief Inspector’s air and manner. Frank
became deferential.

“They’re all full of reasons why someone else should have done it.
Masterman was very ingenious about the possibility of Tote’s having
slipped across the hall in the dark and waited behind the service door.
Carroll had a few kind words for Tote too. And both he and Masterman,
and Tote himself, simply tumble over themselves to underline the fact
that Mrs. Oakley went down on her knees by the body and addressed it as
Glen.”

Lamb grunted.

“Yes—we’ll have to go into that. Let me see—we haven’t seen Miss Lane
or Miss Masterman. Mrs. Tote is negligible. If she’d seen her husband in
the hall she wouldn’t say so, and she didn’t want to say anything about
anyone else. I think we can count her out. I’d say it was one of those
three men, if it weren’t for the complication about Mrs. Oakley. There
might be something there that would give Oakley a motive, so I’m keeping
an open mind. But taking the three in the house—Carroll’s clever enough
and quick enough, and by Pearson’s account he’d motive enough. Masterman
had his fingerprints on the switch by the hearth and a very good reason
for having them there. We don’t know much about a motive, but it looks
as if he might have had one. The Yard can get on with looking up his
record. Then there’s Tote—now, what did you make of Tote?”

Frank lifted his eyebrows.

“If the murderer had to be clever and quick, you’d hardly say that Tote
would fill the picture. On the other hand, if Tote was quite as thick in
the head as he seems, how did he make so much money?”

Lamb nodded.

“There’s two answers to that, you know. The first is, he didn’t make it,
he stole it. And the other is that he’s not such a fool as he looks.”

Frank thought the Chief was in good form. He said,

“I don’t think so much of the first reason. That Black Market racket had
brains behind it. If a man was stupid, they might use him as a tool, but
they wouldn’t let him get away with anything big—why should they? Tote,
I gather, is fairly rolling, and if that’s the case, I doubt his
stupidity. A little man would make a little profit. If Tote got away
with the big stuff, the second answer is right—he’s not such a fool as
he looks.”

Lamb sat there looking blank. He drummed with his fingers on the
blotting-pad.

“He would have had to mark Porlock with the luminous paint, and he would
have had to get to one of those switches. There was just a muddle of
prints on the one by the service door, and the same on the door itself.
It’s more or less what you’d expect. But the one at the top of the
stairs had been wiped clean.”

“That looks like Carroll.”

Lamb nodded.

“Or Tote. He could have got up there if he’d gone through the service
door and up the back stair—though I don’t know why he should.”

Frank shook his head.

“Doesn’t seem likely. He’s not the build for sliding the banisters or
running down stairs. You know, sir, I don’t see how anyone could have
run down or up those stairs without being heard. You can’t walk silently
on bare oak.”

“Not unless you’re in your stocking feet. If Carroll slid the banisters
and ran back up the stairs he could slip off his pumps and leave them
handy to get back into. Tote could have carried his down in his
hand—fat men are often extraordinarily light on their feet. I don’t
think there’s much in that. But I don’t know why he should have bothered
to go upstairs to turn off the lights, when it would have been a whole
lot simpler to have done it downstairs from the service door.”

“Well, that’s Masterman’s theory—he could have followed the others out
of the drawing-room when they went to watch the charade and got across
the dark hall to wait behind the service door, and he could have put the
mark on Porlock as he followed him into the hall. That would give him
the switch by the service door to play with, and the luminous paint on
Porlock’s back to guide him when the lights were out again. It’s all
quite possible in theory, and not as much evidence as you could balance
on the point of a needle.”

The door was opened in a tentative sort of way. Pearson made his
appearance with a tray. Something about his manner suggested that he
was, for the moment, a butler and not a detective. The tray supported a
tea-pot, milk-jug and sugar-basin of a Queen Anne pattern, two cups and
saucers, a covered dish, a dark fruit cake, and a plate of sandwiches.
There was an agreeable smell of muffins, or perhaps buttered toast.

Pearson shut the door behind him dexterously and set down the tray.

“I thought you’d be ready for some tea, sir. Anchovy toast under the
cover, and the sandwiches are egg and Gentleman’s Relish.” Then,
reverting to the private detective, “If I may offer a word, sir, there’s
something I think you ought to know.”

“What is it?” Lamb recalled his eye from the covered dish. “Well, speak
up, man!”

Pearson looked deferential.

“In the matter of Mrs. Oakley’s maid——”

“What about her?” He jerked round upon Frank Abbott, who had picked up
the tea-pot. “Pour out your own wash if you want to. If I have a cup of
tea I like a bit of body in it. Brew it well, stand it well, sugar it
well—that’s what my old Granny used to say, and she made the best cup
of tea I ever tasted.” He turned back again. “What’s this about Mrs.
Oakley’s maid?”

“Hooper, sir—Miss Hooper. Nothing, sir, except that she was in Mr.
Porlock’s pay.”

Lamb sat up square, hands on knees.

“Oh, she was, was she? What makes you think so?”

Pearson looked more deprecating than ever. Quite irrationally, Frank was
reminded of an earwig coming out from under a stone—or didn’t earwigs
come out from under stones? He didn’t know, but that was what Pearson
reminded him of. He was saying,

“Oh, I don’t think, sir—I know. In this sort of house the telephones
are very convenient for listening in, and a butler is most commodiously
placed with an extension in the pantry all to hand and private, as you
might say. If I happened to know that Mr. Porlock was telephoning, I’d
only to go into my pantry and shut the door. Or, in this case, if Miss
Hooper rang him up—which she did, only not of course under that
name—I’d only to put the call through to Mr. Porlock and make believe
to hang up myself. With a little care the click can be induced or
avoided, to suit the occasion.”

Frank Abbott put three drops of milk in his straw-coloured tea. Lamb
grunted.

“How did you find out that it is this Hooper woman if she didn’t give
her name?”

Pearson evinced a modest pride.

“The young lady at the telephone exchange was able to give me the
subscriber’s number. The name Miss Hooper gave was Robinson. I soon
discovered that there was no one by that name at the Mill House. From
the substance of the conversations it was quite clear that someone of
the nature of a personal maid was speaking.”

“What had she got to say?”

“Well, the first time was last Tuesday. She said her name was Miss
Robinson, and I put her through to Mr. Porlock. Tuesday evening it was.
He says, ‘Anything to report?’ and she tells him, ‘Not very much.
They’ve arrived, but Miss Cole, the governess, she’ve gone back to town,
and the old nurse is there again.’ Mr. Porlock says he’s not interested
in old nurses—what about the new secretary? And the maid sniffs and
says Mrs. Oakley’s all out to spoil her, sending her up to London to get
herself an evening dress. And Mr. Porlock says, ‘When?’ The maid says,
‘Tomorrow’, and Mr. Porlock takes her up sharp. ‘Now listen,’ he
says—‘this is very particular.’ And he tells her Mr. Oakley wants some
luminous paint to dodge up a clock for the little boy, and she’s to get
Mrs. Oakley to send Miss Brown—that’s the secretary—to the De Luxe
Stores between twelve and one o’clock, because they’ve got some there
‘Now don’t forget, and don’t make a mess of it’, he says. ‘She’s to go
to the De Luxe Stores between twelve and one’. And he asks her what Miss
Brown will be wearing, and she tells him she’s only got the one coat, a
light brown tweed, and shabby at that. So he asks about her hat, and her
shoes, and her handbag, all very particular. He says with a sort of a
laugh, ‘Do her hair and eyes still match?’ and the maid sniffs and says
she hasn’t taken that much notice. Then he says, ‘Is there anything
else?’ and she says, ‘Something funny’s happened.’ And he says, ‘What?’
and she tells him. It seems Mrs. Oakley went through from her bedroom to
the boudoir before dinner—there’s a door going through. Hooper hears
Mrs. Oakley call out as if she was hurt. She goes to see what’s the
matter, and she finds her with a crumpled-up photo in her hand, staring
at it. Mrs. Oakley, she sits down sudden as if she’s going to faint, and
Hooper picks the photo up. ‘Well?’ says Mr. Porlock, and the maid says,
‘Do you want me to tell you who it was?’ A very nasty sort of way she
says it. And Mr. Porlock says, ‘You can tell me the photographer’s
name.’ She says, ‘Rowbecker & Son, Norwood’, and Mr. Porlock whistles
and rings off. A minute or two later he rings up a London number—here
it is, sir—and talks to someone he calls Maisie. He tells her, ‘It’s
for between twelve and one to-morrow. Look out for a long tweed coat,
light-coloured and shabby,’ and gives her the rest of the description
he’s got from the maid, and finishes up with, ‘Her hair and eyes used to
be a perfect match. I expect they are still—golden brown and very
attractive. Get on with it!’ That was all that time, sir.”

“There were other times?”

“Yes, sir. Miss Hooper rang up next day about half past seven—said she
couldn’t ring before, she had to wait till Mrs. Oakley went to her bath.
She says Mr. Oakley and Miss Brown was back, and Mr. Porlock swore. And
then he laughs and says, ‘What’s the odds?’ and rang off.”

“That all?”

“No, sir. She rang up yesterday afternoon and said Mrs. Oakley had been
very upset ever since Wednesday—‘the day you came to see her’. And Mr.
Porlock says, ‘Is she coming tonight?’ And the maid says she’s in two
minds about it, but she don’t want Mr. Oakley to know there’s anything
wrong, and she thinks she’ll come.”

Lamb said, “H’m!” and then, “Thanks, Pearson.”

When the door had shut again he turned to the tray, poured out a good
stewed cup of tea, added milk and sugar with a liberal hand, and did
full justice to the anchovy toast, the sandwiches, and the cake, the
only contribution he made to the case from start to finish being a grunt
and a “So he went to see her on Wednesday. Well, we’ll be along as soon
as we’ve finished our tea.”

They were passing through the hall on their way to the front door, when
Justin Leigh came up.

“If you can spare me just a moment——I’m arranging to do some of my
work down here until after the inquest, but I shall have to run up to
town and get the papers I want. I thought of going up first thing in the
morning. I’ll be back in time for lunch.”

“That’s all right, Mr. Leigh.”

It appeared that Mr. Leigh hadn’t finished.

“Miss Lane would like the lift both ways. I suppose there’s no objection
to that?”

The Chief Inspector didn’t answer so quickly this time. When he spoke,
it was to say,

“I haven’t seen Miss Lane yet. She mayn’t be very important, but I want
to see her. Will you make yourself responsible for having her back here
by two o’clock tomorrow?”

“I’ll do my best.”

Lamb walked on, then halted rather suddenly and looked back.

“What does she want to go up for?”

“Her cousin, Lady Pemberley, is an invalid. She wants to go up and see
her. She’s afraid all this may have been a shock. I’ve arranged to drop
her there and pick her up again.”

There was another slight pause. Then the Chief Inspector said,

“All right, Mr. Leigh. But I shall be wanting to see her not later than
two o’clock.”




                                  XXIV


Martin Oakley met them with a flat refusal.

“My wife’s ill. She can’t see anyone.”

“Have you a doctor’s certificate, Mr. Oakley?”

“No, I haven’t, and I don’t need one. I know my wife a great deal better
than any doctor. She’s not fit to see anyone. Good heavens, man—a
gentle, delicate woman has a man killed practically next door to her,
and you expect her to be able to discuss it! Why, the shock was enough
to kill her. And she’s got nothing to say, any more than I have myself.
We were all there, standing close together. Mr. Porlock had gone over
towards the stairs. Then he began to come towards us again, and the
lights went out. We heard a groan and a fall, and less than a minute
after that the lights came on, and there was Porlock lying dead on the
floor with a dagger in his back. That’s all I know, and that’s all my
wife knows. She’s very sensitive and tender-hearted. She went down on
her knees to see if there was anything to be done, and when she found he
was dead she became hysterical.”

Lamb said, “So I understand.”

They were in the study, among its incongruous chromium plating and
scarlet velvet, registered by the Chief Inspector as ‘gim-crackery’. He
knew what an English gentleman’s study ought to look like, and it wasn’t
anything like this. He said,

“How long have you known Mr. Porlock?”

“A couple of months.”

“And Mrs. Oakley—how long has she known him?”

“She never met him until he paid a formal call on Wednesday last.”

“Are you quite sure of that?”

“Of course I am—you can ask anyone you like. I’d met him in the way of
business. She didn’t so much as know him by sight.”

“Then will you explain why she should have called him Glen.”

“She did nothing of the kind.”

“Mr. Oakley, there were eight people present besides yourself and your
wife. They all agree that Mrs. Oakley called out repeatedly, ‘Oh, Glen!
Glen’s dead—he’s dead! Oh, Glen—Glen—_Glen!_’ ”

“I should say they had made a mistake. How could she call him Glen? His
name was Gregory. We were all calling him Greg. She was in the habit of
hearing me speak of him as Greg. What she said was, ‘Greg’s dead! He’s
dead—dead dead!’ She was sobbing and crying, you understand, and I
can’t think why anyone should have thought she said Glen—it makes
nonsense.”

The Chief Inspector allowed a pause to follow this statement. When he
thought it had lasted long enough he said,

“I should like to see Miss Dorinda Brown and Mrs. Oakley’s maid. Perhaps
I might begin with the maid.”

Martin Oakley stiffened.

“The maid? She’s only been with my wife a week. She wasn’t there last
night.”

“I should like to see her, Mr. Oakley.”

Hooper came into the room in a black dress with a small old-fashioned
brooch at the neck. The faded hair might have been a wig, or the
part-wig which is called a front. It had small, close curls fitting
tightly on to the head. Under it one of those round bony foreheads, dull
pale cheeks, and a tight mouth. She came up to the table and stood there
with an air of professional respect.

“Your name is Hooper, and you are Mrs. Oakley’s personal maid?”

The tight lips opened the smallest possible way.

“Yes, sir—Louisa Hooper.”

“How long have you been with Mrs. Oakley?”

“It will be ten days. I came in on the Saturday. We came down here on
the Tuesday.”

She didn’t look at him when she spoke. She kept her eyes down. The lids
reminded Frank Abbott of those little hooded awnings which you see at
the seaside, keeping out the light, hiding the windows.

Lamb’s next question came rather quickly.

“How long had you known Mr. Porlock?”

“Mr. Porlock?”

He said sternly, “Come, come—we know you know him. We know you were in
the habit of telephoning to him. Your conversations were overheard.
What’s the good of wasting time? You were in his pay—I want to know
why?”

The lids did not rise, the lips were tight. Then quite suddenly they
produced a smile—not a nice smile.

“If a gentleman takes an interest in a lady, I don’t see that it’s any
business of the police.”

“Then you’d better do some thinking. When a gentleman’s murdered
everything to do with him is of interest to the police. Got that?
Now—why did he pay you?”

The smile persisted.

“He took an interest in Mrs. Oakley.”

“Whom he’d never seen till Wednesday last.”

The lids came up with a jerk. The eyes behind them were cold, with a
bright point of malice.

“Who says so?”

“Mr. Oakley does. If you know any different you’d better say so.”

The lids came down again.

“He came to see her on Wednesday afternoon. I suppose a gentleman can
come and call on a lady he’s taken a fancy to?”

Lamb fixed her with his bulging stare.

“Now look here, Miss Hooper, it’s no good your giving me that kind of
stuff. I’ve told you your conversations with Mr. Porlock were overheard.
You rang him up on Tuesday night and told him about Mrs. Oakley finding
a crumpled-up photograph and being very much upset over it. You asked
him if you should tell him whose photograph it was, and he said to give
the photographer’s name, which you did—Rowbecker & Son, Norwood.
Now—whose photograph was it?”

“How should I know?”

“You knew all right when you were talking to Mr. Porlock.”

She looked up again, not meeting the stare but, as it were, sliding past
it.

“Well then, it was Mr. Porlock.”

“Sure about that?”

She nodded.

“He takes a good photograph.”

“Do you know where it came from?”

“The little boy must have got at it. It was in his toy-cupboard. Nurse
was saying how spoilt he’d got whilst she was away. She said Miss Brown
picked up a photograph from the nursery floor and took it away.”

“What happened to the photograph?”

“Mrs. Oakley said it was spoilt, and she went over and dropped it in the
fire.”

“Mr. Porlock came to see her on Wednesday afternoon?”

“Yes.”

“Where did she see him?”

“Upstairs in her sitting-room.”

“And how much of their conversation did you overhear?”

“I don’t listen at doors.”

“Is there a door you could have listened at—a door through to her
bedroom?”

“I don’t listen at doors.”

“I’m asking you if there’s a door through from her bedroom. I can ask
Mrs. Oakley, you know.”

“There’s a door.”

“And you don’t listen at doors? Look here, Miss Hooper, I’m making no
threats, and I’m making no promises—I’m just pointing out one or two
facts. This is a murder case. It’s a serious thing to obstruct the
police in their inquiries. If you listened at that door and got any
information that would help the police, it’s your duty to tell them what
it is. If you have any idea of trying to dispose of that information for
your own profit, it would be a very serious offence—it would be
blackmail. Blackmail is a very serious offence. You know best what your
past record is—whether it will bear looking into. I don’t want to have
to look into it. Now then—how much of that conversation between Mrs.
Oakley and Mr. Porlock did you hear?”

She stood there weighing her chances. Mr. Oakley would pay her to hold
her tongue. Would he? Gregory Porlock was dead. Mrs. Oakley would pay
her. Yes, and go and cry on Mr. Oakley’s shoulder next minute and tell
him all about it. Mr. Oakley was the sort that might turn nasty. She
couldn’t afford to have the police come ferreting round. Chances were
all very well when you were young and larky. She’d got past taking them.
Safety first—that’s what you came to. It wasn’t safe to get on the
wrong side of the police. Better tell him what he wanted to know, and
see what pickings she could get from Mrs. Oakley—quick, before it all
came out. She’d be easy managed the way she was, crying herself silly
one minute, and wanting her face done up so that Mr. Oakley wouldn’t
notice anything the next.

Lamb let her have her time.

“Well?” he said at last.

She gave a businesslike little nod.

“All right, sir.”

“Good! You’d better have a chair.”

She took one with composure, settled herself, folded her hands in her
lap, lifted those cold eyes, and said,

“The door wasn’t quite shut. I didn’t do it, Mrs. Oakley did. She knew
Mr. Porlock was coming, because he telephoned—I took the message. But
she didn’t have any idea who he was—she didn’t know who she was going
to see.”

“Sure about that?”

“I don’t say things unless I’m sure.”

“Go on.”

“I thought I’d like to hear what they said, because all he’d told me was
I was to go there as maid and tell him anything he wanted to know. He
didn’t tell me why, and I don’t like working in the dark, so I thought
I’d listen.”

“Yes?”

“Well, the first I heard was him calling her by her Christian name.
‘Well, Linnet’, he said, ‘I thought it would be you, but I had to make
sure.’ Then he said to pull herself together. And she said, ‘I thought
you were dead,’ and she called him Glen.”

“Go on.”

“Well, I can’t remember it all, but she was crying and saying why did he
let her think he was dead. And he said, ‘I suppose you told Martin you
were a widow?’ and she said she thought she was.”

“Do you mean——”

She nodded.

“It was as plain as plain—you couldn’t miss it. They’d been married,
and he’d gone off and left her, and nine months after she’d married Mr.
Oakley. Mr. Porlock, he kept talking about bigamy, and saying she’d
broken the law and he hadn’t, and in the end he got her so she’d do
anything he wanted. And what he wanted was for her to put Mr. Oakley’s
dispatch-case out on the study window-sill. Mr. Oakley was expected down
by tea-time. She was to put the case outside the window when he went to
dress for dinner and leave the window unlatched, so that everything
could be put back and no one any the wiser. And in the end that’s what
she agreed to.”

“Did she do it?”

“I couldn’t say, but if you want my opinion, she’d be too frightened not
to. She’s easy frightened, and he’d got the whip hand—talking about
putting her in the dock for bigamy, and Mr. Oakley putting her out in
the street. Well, in my opinion she wouldn’t have dared not do what he
told her.”

“Now look here—did she tell Mr. Oakley?”

“She wouldn’t do that—not if she’d any sense.”

“Why do you put it that way?”

“Because that’s the way Mr. Porlock put it—said he knew she couldn’t
hold her tongue, but if she went crying to Mr. Oakley about it she’d
find herself in the dock for bigamy.”

“So you don’t think she told him?”

“No, I don’t.”

“They didn’t have anything like the scene there’d have been if he’d
found out she wasn’t really married to him?”

“No—nothing like that.” She hesitated. “Not unless it was just before
they started for the dinner-party. He came in when she was dressing, and
I left them there. She might have said something then, or in the car.”

Lamb grunted.

“But you don’t know whether she did?”

“No, I had to go downstairs.”

When he had sent her away with instructions to say that the Chief
Inspector would like to see Miss Brown he turned to Frank Abbott and
said in an expressionless voice,

“That gives Mr. Martin Oakley a pretty big motive.”

“If she told him.”

“We’ll know more about that when we’ve seen her.”




                                  XXV


Miss Masterman was writing a letter. It began, “Dear Mr. Trower——” and
it ended, “Yours sincerely, Agnes Masterman.” It was written in a firm,
legible hand.

When she had signed her name she folded the sheet, put it in an
envelope, and addressed it to Messrs. Trower and Wakefield, Solicitors.
Then she put on her hat and the shabby fur coat and walked down the
drive.

She came back in about twenty minutes. Mr. Masterman was knocking about
the balls in the billiard-room. When he saw his sister come in, still in
her outdoor things, he frowned and said,

“Where have you been?”

She came right up to the table before she answered him. Watching her
come, he felt a growing uneasiness. When she said, “To post a letter”,
the uneasiness became an absolute oppression. He wanted to ask her,
“What letter?” but he held the words back. It wasn’t any concern of his,
but she wrote so few letters—none at all since old Mabel Ledbury died.
Why should she write to anyone now?

They stood there, not more than a yard apart, with that uneasiness of
his between them. He didn’t like the way she was looking at him. There
was something hard about it, as if she had made up her mind and didn’t
give a damn. He put down his cue and said,

“Hadn’t you better take your things off? It’s hot in here.”

She didn’t take any notice of that, just looked at him and said in quite
an ordinary voice,

“I’ve written to Mr. Trower.”

“You’ve—what?”

“I’ve written to Mr. Trower to say that we’ve found another will.”

“Agnes—are you mad?”

“Oh, no. I told you I couldn’t go on. I said it was hidden in her
biscuit-box. There won’t be any trouble about it. I told you I couldn’t
go on.”

He said in a stunned voice, “You’re mad.”

Agnes Masterman shook her head.

“Oh, no,” she said. “I thought I’d better tell you what I’d done. Now
I’m going to take my things off.”

Afterwards he was glad that Leonard Carroll chose this moment to drift
into the room, obviously bored and wanting a game. Agnes walked out with
the same detached air which she had worn throughout their brief
encounter, and he had the satisfaction of beating young Carroll’s head
off. Much better than having a row with Agnes. No use having a row if
the letter was posted. They’d have to go through with it, but he would
keep her to her offer about the fifty thousand. He’d be no worse off if
he had it, and he’d be safe. If he had known how Agnes was going to
carry on he would never have risked it at all. Women hadn’t the nerve
for a bold stroke, and that was a fact.

Whilst the game of billiards was going on Justin went up to the Mill
House.

“Put your hat on and come out,” he said.

Dorinda went away and came back again. They walked down the road towards
the village in the late dusk of a damp, misty evening. Little curls of
smoke came up out of the chimneys of the village houses to join the mist
and thicken it. Here and there a lighted chink showed where a curtain
had been drawn crookedly. There was a faint smell of rotted
leaves—especially cabbage leaves—manure, and wood-smoke.

Just short of the first house a lane went off between high hedgerows and
overarching trees. Until they had turned into it neither of them had
spoken. There was that feeling of there being too much to say, and an
odd sense of being too much out in the open to say it. Here in the lane
they were shut in—alone.

Justin spoke first.

“How are you getting on?”

She didn’t answer the question, but said quickly,

“The police came——”

“Did they see Mrs. Oakley?”

“No—Mr. Oakley wouldn’t let them. He said she wasn’t well enough.
They’re coming back tomorrow. They saw the maid, and they saw me.”

“You’d better tell me about it.”

“They were very nice. I mean they didn’t make me feel nervous or
anything. The Chief Inspector asked all the questions, and the other one
wrote down what I said. And—oh, Justin, the very first thing he asked
me was how long had I known Mr. Porlock.”

“What did you say?”

She had turned and was looking at him through the dusk. It was really
almost dark here between the hedges and under the trees. He had sent her
to put on a hat, but she had come down in her tweed coat bareheaded. The
colour of the tweed was absorbed into all the other shades of brown and
russet and auburn which belonged to drifted leaves, brown earth, and
leafless boughs. Her hair had vanished too, melting into the shadow
overhead. There remained visible just her face, robbed of its colour,
almost of its features, like the faint first sketch of a face painted on
a soft, dim background. The sunk lane gave an under-water quality to its
own darkness. She seemed at once remote and near. He could touch her if
he put out his hand, but at this moment it came to him to wonder whether
he would reach her if he did.

The pause before she answered was momentary.

“I said I didn’t know him at all when we went there last night. Justin,
it doesn’t seem as if it could be only last night—does it?” She caught
her breath. “I’m sorry—it just came over me. Then I said when we came
into the drawing-room I recognized him.”

“Oh, you told them that?”

She said in a voice which was suddenly very young,

“I thought I must. And I thought if I was going to, then I had better do
it at once.”

“That’s all right. Go on.”

“Well, they asked a lot of questions. I told them his name was Glen
Porteous when I knew him, and that he was Aunt Mary’s husband. And they
asked when she died, and I said four years ago. So then they wanted to
know whether there had been a divorce, and I said yes, she divorced him
about seven years ago after he went away the last time, and that I
hadn’t seen him since. They wanted to know whether I was sure that
Gregory Porlock was Glen Porteous, and I said I was, and that he knew I
had recognized him. He did, you know. You can always tell by the way
anyone looks at you, and that was the way he looked at me. Well, after
that they asked about the photograph I picked up off the nursery floor.
I don’t know who told them about it. I said it was the twin of the one
Aunt Mary had and I recognized it at once. And then they went back to
that horrid business at the De Luxe Stores. And do you know what I
think, Justin? I think the Wicked Uncle cooked that up to get me out of
my job with the Oakleys. You see, he couldn’t count on my not
recognizing him, and if he was going about being Gregory Porlock he
wouldn’t want a bit of his past turning up and saying, ‘Oh, no—that’s
Glen Porteous, and my Aunt Mary had to divorce him because he was an out
and out bad lot’. I mean, would he?”

“Probably not.”

“They seemed to know about Miss Silver. The young one got a sort of
twinkly look when I told them how she talked to the manager at that
horrid Stores. He said something that sounded like ‘She would!’ and the
Chief Inspector went rather stiff and said that Miss Silver was very
much respected at Scotland Yard. Oh, Justin, I do wish she was here!”

“What makes you say that?”

She caught her breath.

“It’s the Oakleys. Justin, I feel frightened about them. You know how
she called out when she saw that he was dead. She called him Glen. She
must have known him before he was Gregory Porlock. She wasn’t supposed
to know him at all. There’s something frightening there. She does
nothing but cry, and Mr. Oakley looks as if it was a funeral all the
time. There’s something they’re both dreadfully afraid about. She’s
afraid to tell him what it is, and he’s afraid to ask her. It’s grim.”

He said, “I don’t like your being there.”

“Oh, it isn’t that. I can’t help feeling sorry for them—even if——”

“What did you mean by that, Dorinda?”

She said almost inaudibly, “It frightens me.”

The thought which frightened her hung between them in the dark. A
desperate hand striking a desperate blow. Perhaps a woman’s
hand—perhaps a man’s——

She said with a little gasp,

“He was the sort of person who gets himself murdered.”




                                  XXVI


“Will you see Miss Moira, my lady?”

Lady Pemberley had breakfasted in bed. She was now reading the paper.
She said,

“Miss Moira? She’s very early. Yes, of course. Take the tray, and ask
her to come up.”

The paper she had been reading lay tilted to the light. A black headline
showed—“Murder in a Country House. Guests Questioned.” When the door
opened and Moira Lane came in it was the second thing she saw. The first
was Sibylla Pemberley’s face, pale and rather austere under the thick
iron-grey hair which she wore drawn back in a manner reminiscent of the
eighteenth century. Everything in the room was very good and very
plain—no fripperies, no bright colours; a dark oil painting of the late
Lord Pemberley over the mantelpiece; a jar of white camellia blooms on
the shelf below; a purple bedspread which Moira irreverently dubbed the
catafalque; a lace cap with purple ribbons; a fine Shetland shawl
covering a night-dress of tucked nun’s veiling. With all these Moira was
quite familiar. They made up the picture she expected. Her first glance
was for the look on Lady Pemberley’s face, which told her nothing, and
her second for the newspaper, which told her a good deal. To start with,
it wasn’t the sort of paper Cousin Sibylla read. Headlines and pictures
weren’t what you would call in her line. That meant that Dawson had
brought it up specially, and if she had, it meant not only that the
murder was in it, but that Miss Moira Lane was mentioned.

“Amongst those present was Miss Moira Lane.” Almost a daily occurrence
in some paper or another. You got to the point where you took it for
granted. “Attractive Miss Moira Lane”—“Lord Blank and Miss Moira Lane
at Epsom”—“The Duke of Dash, Lady Asterisk, and Miss Moira Lane on the
moors”—“Miss Moira Lane and Mr. Justin Leigh ...” Not so good when it
was a murder story—“Miss Moira Lane at the Inquest on Gregory Porlock.”

She came up to the bed, touched a thin cheek with her cold glowing one,
and straightened up again.

“Good-morning, Cousin Sibylla.”

“You’re very early, Moira.”

“I had the chance of a lift. Justin Leigh brought me up. He’s fetching
papers from his office. We’ll have to get back by one or so. I suppose
it’s all in the papers?”

Delicate dark eyebrows lifted. There was no other likeness between the
young woman and the old one, but those fine arched brows belonged to
both. In Lady Pemberley they gave an effect of severity. The eyes
beneath them were grey, not blue like Moira’s. Grey eyes can be most
tender, and most severe. In Lady Pemberley’s rather ascetic face they
tended to be severe. She said,

“It is very unfortunate—very unpleasant.”

Moira nodded. She sat down on the edge of the bed.

“I’m going to tell you what happened.”

The story did not go down at all well. The atmosphere became charged
with all the things Lady Pemberley had said in the past. She didn’t say
them now, but there they were, quite as insistent as if she had. If you
kept to your own set you did at least know by what rules they played the
game. If you went outside it you were out of your own line of country
and anything might happen. A man could leave his own set and amuse
himself elsewhere, but it was folly for a woman to attempt it. These
themes, with endless variations, had been so often sounded in Moira’s
ears that it needed no more than a single note to recall the whole. She
went through to the end.

Lady Pemberley repeated her former remark.

“Very unfortunate—very unpleasant.”

“Epitaph for Gregory Porlock,” said Moira with a tang in her voice.

The eyebrows rose again.

“My dear——”

Moira was looking at her—a straight, dark look.

“Do you know, I meant that.”

“_My dear_——”

Moira gave an abrupt nod. Her glowing colour had gone. She looked pale
and hard in her grey tweeds.

“He was a devil.”

“_Moira_——”

“He was a blackmailer.” She stood up straight by the bed. “He was
blackmailing me. I’ve come here to tell you why.”

There was a brief silence. Lady Pemberley had become paler too. She
said,

“You had better sit down.”

Moira shook her head.

“I’d rather stand. Cousin Sibylla, you won’t believe me—I suppose
nobody would—but I’m not telling you about it because Gregory Porlock
has been murdered. I was coming anyhow. I made up my mind that I
would—after I got down there on Saturday—after he tried to blackmail
me. I was coming up to tell you. You won’t believe me of course.”

“I haven’t said so. Go on, please.”

The dark blue eyes went on looking at her.

“A little while ago I was in a bad hole—money. I went down for a
week-end with some people who played a bit too high for me. I had the
most damnable luck. It put me in a hole.”

“Yes?”

Moira set her teeth.

“I came to see you. You remember—it was the first week in November.”

“Why didn’t you tell me?”

“I was going to. Everything went wrong. The Lamonts were here. You were
vexed.”

“I remember.”

“Mrs. Lamont had made you vexed. She’s always had a down on me.”

“She is one of my oldest friends.”

“She hates me like poison—she always has.”

“You should not exaggerate, Moira.”

“Let’s say she doesn’t love me.”

“I don’t think you have given her much reason to do so have you? Your
manner towards her is scarcely——”

“Oh, I expect I was as rude as the devil! Don’t you see, I wanted them
to go, but they stayed, and stayed, and stayed. And then——” She broke
off.

“And then, Moira?”

“You sent me to tell Dawson you wanted your jewel-case. You were talking
about Molly Lamont’s wedding, and you said you would like her to have a
brooch you had worn at your own wedding. You wanted her to have it
because Cousin Robert gave it to you and he was her godfather. I brought
the case down, and you showed her the brooch, and then they went away.
You went on showing me things.”

“Yes, Moira.”

“There was a diamond and ruby bracelet. You began to say something about
leaving it to me. Cousin Sophy Arnott was shown in, and you said, ‘Oh,
take these things back to Dawson, Moira.’ And I said, ‘Well, I’ll say
good-bye’, because I knew it wasn’t any good—Cousin Sophy’s a sticker.”

She came to a standstill. It was not only difficult, it was impossible.
But there were times when the impossible had to be done. This was one of
them. Everything in her was stiff with effort. She went on.

“I took the things upstairs. Dawson wasn’t there. I looked at the
bracelet again. You said you were going to leave it to me. I was
angry—you know I’ve got a foul temper. I don’t think I’d have done it
if I hadn’t been angry.”

Lady Pemberley’s face was almost as white as the lace of her cap. She
said,

“Why should you have been angry?”

“Mrs. Lamont staying on like that. I knew she’d been saying things. She
hates me. I thought you kept her on purpose because I wanted to speak to
you.”

“But when she went you did not speak——”

“I was working up for it—and then Cousin Sophy had to come in—I felt
as if everything was against me. I took the bracelet.”

There was silence for some time before Lady Pemberley said,

“What did you do with it?”

It was out now. There couldn’t be anything worse. She drew in her
breath.

“I meant to pawn it. I had to have the money at once. I meant to pawn it
and tell you what I’d done. And then you got ill—I couldn’t.”

“You pawned it?”

Moira shook her head.

“I tried to. I got the wind up. The man asked questions—I should have
had to leave my name and address and pay interest. I funked it. I went
into Crossley’s and sold it over the counter. They didn’t ask any
questions. It seems they knew me, though I didn’t think of that at the
time. I couldn’t get at you—you were very ill.”

She heard Lady Pemberley say,

“And you thought that if I died, the bracelet would be yours and nobody
would know?”

It was true. She hadn’t any answer to make. She made none.

After a while Lady Pemberley said,

“How does Mr. Porlock come into it?”

“He saw the bracelet. He recognized it. He said it was one of a pair,
and that Napoleon gave them to Josephine. He knew they belonged to you.
He bought the bracelet and tried to blackmail me. He wanted me to do
jackal for him—scavenge for scandals, so that he could carry on his
blackmailing business. I told him there was nothing doing. That was on
Saturday evening. I made up my mind then to come up to town on Monday
morning and tell you. Then after dinner somebody stabbed him.”

“Do you know who did it?”

“No.” She laughed suddenly. “I should have liked to do it myself! But
you needn’t be afraid—I didn’t.”

It is possible that Lady Pemberley had been afraid—it is possible that
she now experienced relief. It was not in her character to admit to
either. She put out a thin, ringless hand and rang the bell on her
bedside table.

Dawson came in, elderly, sensible, a little prim. Lady Pemberley spoke
to her at once.

“Oh, Dawson—my keys, and the large jewel-case. Miss Moira has one of
the ruby and diamond bracelets, and she might just as well have the
other. It is a pity to separate them. Get it out and let me have it.”

Moira said nothing at all. It had not often happened to her to find
herself without words. It happened now. She stood like a stone whilst
Dawson set the jewel-case down on the dressing-table—whilst she
unlocked it, lifted out trays, and came over to the bed to put the other
bracelet into Lady Pemberley’s waiting hand.

Dawson was a little cross because Miss Moira didn’t speak. She thought
she might have said something pretty and given her ladyship a kiss,
instead of standing there for all the world like Lot’s wife. She was
locking up the jewel-case again, when Lady Pemberley spoke,

“Just remind me to alter the list of my jewellery, and to let Mr. Ramsay
know about taking the bracelets out of my will. It will be much
pleasanter to think of Miss Moira wearing them now. Thank you, Dawson,
that will be all.”

When the door had shut and they were alone again Moira lifted her eyes.
She had the stolen bracelet in her hand. She took a step forward and
laid it down on the purple coverlet.

“I can’t take them, Cousin Sibylla.”

Lady Pemberley said gently,

“But I want you to have them.”

Something in Moira gave way. A kind of dizzy warmth swept over her. She
sat on the edge of the bed and felt the tears run scalding down.




                                 XXVII


When Justin Leigh walked into the hall of the Grange after putting his
car away it was a quarter to one. They had made very good time on the
way down. If he found Moira Lane unusually silent, he preferred it that
way. He had plenty to think about.

He had hardly shut the front door behind him when to his surprise
Dorinda came out of the study. She clutched him and pulled him back into
the room.

“I want to talk to you—I thought you were never coming. It’s quite
dreadful. The police have only just gone, and Mr. Winter is washing his
hands.”

Justin shut the study door.

“Darling, you’re gibbering. Who or what is Winter?”

Dorinda gazed at him with widened eyes.

“He’s Mr. Porlock’s solicitor. The Scotland Yard policeman got him
down—he arrived about eleven o’clock——”

He interrupted her.

“I wasn’t really asking for a biography.”

“Justin, it’s too dreadful. They rang up and said would I come over,
because he’d brought down Mr. Porlock’s will. Only of course it isn’t
Mr. Porlock—it’s Uncle Glen, and he’s left everything to me.”

Justin whistled. Then he said,

“Not really!”

Dorinda nodded.

“Frightful—isn’t it?”

Justin looked at her curiously.

“What makes you say that?”

She had turned quite pale.

“Justin, I can’t take it. He usedn’t to have any money. I’m sure he made
it some wicked way.”

“Blackmail, my dear—just a little simple, innocent blackmail.”

“Oh, how——” She hesitated for a word, and came out with a childish
“_beastly!_” “I’m glad I said at once I didn’t want it.”

“You said that?”

“Yes, I did—to the policemen, and to Mr. Winter. I said I couldn’t
imagine why he’d thought of leaving it to me. And Mr. Winter said—he’s
a little grey man, very respectable, and industrious like an ant, only
of course ants aren’t grey, but you know what I mean—he twiddled his
pince-nez, and he said his client had informed him that he had no
relatives, but that he would like to benefit a niece of his late
wife’s—said he had lost touch with her, but he remembered her as a
pleasant little girl. I suppose I ought to feel grateful, but when I
think how he did his best to get me put in prison for shoplifting—well,
I can’t. He did, you know. The big policeman said so.”

Justin was looking serious.

“What are you going to do?”

She said, “I don’t know. I had to wait and see you. Mr. Winter says it
will make everything a lot easier if he and I prove the will—we’re
executors. If I don’t, the money will just go to the Crown, and there
doesn’t seem to be any point about that. He says it will be better to
prove it, and then, if he’s taken money from people, I can give it back.
That bit isn’t what he said—it’s what I thought of myself. And then if
there was anything over I could give it to something—for children
perhaps. So I thought it would be better to let him get on with the
will.”

“Had he much to leave? What does it amount to?”

“He isn’t sure. He knows there’s about five thousand pounds—he doesn’t
know whether there’s anything more or not. Justin, they want me to come
here.”

“Why?”

“They say it would be easier. You see, I’m one of the executors. In a
way, it’s my house. There’s no one here to give any orders. Mr. Winter
would like me to be here because, he says, we are responsible for the
house and furniture—Uncle Glen had it on a year’s lease. And the police
say it would make it easier for them.”

Justin said quickly,

“These people in the house—they’re a queer crowd, and one of them’s a
murderer. I don’t want you here.”

“I don’t particularly want to come, but of course I see their point.”

“What did you say?”

“I said I wouldn’t come here unless I could have Miss Silver.”

“Miss Silver?”

“I told you last night I wished she was here. If you were here, and she
was here, I wouldn’t mind being here too.”

“What about Mrs. Oakley?”

“That’s the extraordinary thing. The police came up and saw her after
breakfast. She made me stay in the room. She’s dreadfully unhappy and
dreadfully frightened. I can’t tell you about it, but if I was here I
might be able to help a little. I mean, there might be things amongst
Uncle Glen’s papers—that’s what she’s afraid of. And you see, if I’m an
executor I should have the right to go through them with Mr. Winter and,
I suppose, the police. And of course I would do my best for her, poor
thing. She hasn’t any brains, but she does love her husband and Marty,
and she’s sick with fright at the idea of losing them.”

Justin looked at her straight and said,

“Did she kill Porlock?”

Dorinda’s eyes became quite round.

“Oh—she wouldn’t!”

He said, “I don’t know about that.”




                                 XXVIII


Miss Maud Silver arrived at tea-time in the black cloth coat, the
elderly fur tippet, and the black felt hat with its purple starfish in
front and its niggle of purple and black ruching behind. Having partaken
of what she described as a most refreshing cup of tea, she was conducted
to her room, where she removed her outer garments and had a conversation
with Dorinda.

“It’s very good of you to come.”

Miss Silver smiled.

“It is certainly more suitable that I should be here with you than that
you should be here alone.... My room is next to yours? That is nice,
very nice indeed. And now, Miss Brown, tell me just what happened on
Saturday night.”

When Dorinda had finished Miss Silver coughed and said, “Very clear,
very succinct.” She looked at the watch she wore pinned on the left-hand
side of her bodice. “And now I think I will go down. Sergeant Abbott
said he would be here by five o’clock, and it is just on the hour.”

Sergeant Abbott was punctual. He rang the front door bell as they came
down the stairs, greeted Miss Silver a good deal more like a nephew than
a policeman, and carried her off to the study, leaving Dorinda conscious
for the first time that he was not only a very personable young man but
quite human.

Inside the study he was less like a policeman than ever. He put an
affectionate arm round Miss Silver as he guided her to a comfortable
chair, after which he took an informal seat on the arm of another.

“It’s a good thing you rang me up,” he said. “The Chief was hopping mad
at first, but I’ve got him soothed. The fact is, there are just about
half a dozen people up to their necks in this case—and when I say up to
their necks I mean up to their necks. And any blighted one of them could
have knifed Gregory Porlock—and had every reason to.”

Miss Silver said, “Dear me!” She had brought down a flowery chintz
knitting-bag, the gift of her niece Ethel. She opened it now and took
out a half-made infant’s vest in the pale pink wool which she had bought
on the occasion of her visit to the De Luxe Stores. The four needles
clicked. The vest revolved without detracting in any way from the
attention with which she was regarding Frank.

He nodded.

“As you say—‘Dear me!’ it is. One might almost call it the theme-song.
I take it you know more or less what happened on Saturday night?”

“Miss Brown has given me a commendably clear account.”

“Would you like to read the statements first? They won’t take you very
long. The Chief let me bring them, after blowing off the customary
steam.”

Miss Silver laid down her knitting and perused the type-written sheets
in a silence which he did not attempt to interrupt. When she looked up
from the last word he had another sheaf to offer her.

“These are my notes of the various interviews. There’s quite a lot of
information in them.”

She read these too.

“It all fits very well into the framework given me by Miss Brown.”

“Yes, she’s got a head on her shoulders, and in spite of being the late
unlamented’s sole legatee she is one of the few people who isn’t a
suspect. Now for the ones who are. I’ve tabulated them for you, and
you’ll see how nice and simple it all is. Here we go.”

He handed her some more of his neat typing and leaned over her shoulder
to read aloud, with occasional excursions in the nature of comment or
explanation.

“1. Leonard Carroll. Cabaret artist. Clever, slick, thoroughly
unreliable.”

Miss Silver coughed gently.

“I have met him.”

“In fact you have him taped! Well, he had a very compelling motive.
Porlock was blackmailing him. Their conversation was overheard by
Pearson—you know about him. He was here to try and get something on
Porlock because Porlock was blackmailing a client of his firm. The Chief
knows him, and says he’s all right. He was doing all the listening at
doors he could, and as he said himself, a butler really has excellent
opportunities. Well, Pearson heard Porlock talking to Carroll. He told
him he had evidence that he had given information to the enemy when he
was out at the front with a concert-party in ‘forty-five. Carroll went
right off the deep end—very much rattled, very abusive. You’ve had
that—it’s in my notes. An hour or two later Porlock is knifed. Now if
you look at this plan of the hall you can see where everyone was when
Justin Leigh turned on the lights. It’s his plan, and nobody disputes
it. Gregory Porlock’s body was lying with the feet a couple of yards
from the newel-post at the bottom of the stairs. He had gone over there
from the group about the hearth, and just before the lights went out he
had turned round and was coming back. That is to say, at the time he was
stabbed he was facing the hearth and had his back to the staircase and
the drawing-room door. If you look at the plan you will see that Carroll
was on the stairs, third step from the top, and Tote was in the
drawing-room doorway. Now, taking Carroll as the murderer, the theory is
that on his way up to wash after impersonating the devil in his charade
he left a spot of luminous paint on Porlock’s back as he passed, and
subsequently turned out the hall lights from the top of the stairs. He
then slid down the banisters, stabbed Porlock right in the middle of the
bright spot, and got back upstairs a couple of steps at a time. It could
have been done. There were no fingerprints on the dagger. He may have
worn a glove, or he may have taken a moment to wipe it clean.”

Miss Silver gave her slight cough.

“What about the switch?”

“Wiped clean. And that’s one of the most damning bits of evidence
against Carroll. A switch like that ought to have been a perfect smother
of everybody’s fingerprints. It was as clean as a whistle. Why should
anyone have wiped it? Well, there’s only one answer to that, and only
one person who had a motive for doing it—the person who turned out the
lights. If it was Carroll—and I don’t see that anyone else was in a
position to reach that switch—then Carroll is the murderer. So much for
him. Now we come to Tote. Porlock was blackmailing him over activities
on the black market. One of our leading operators. He was by all
accounts very angry. Now, as you will have gathered, Tote wasn’t one of
the party who went out to play the charade. He stayed behind in the
drawing-room with Porlock, Miss Masterman, Justin Leigh, and Dorinda
Brown. What we don’t know is whether he went on staying behind after the
others came out to do audience in the dark hall. He says he did. Nobody
else says anything at all. Gregory Porlock was last out of the room. He
was the only person who would know for certain whether Tote followed
him. He could have followed him. He could have marked him with the
luminous paint. Everyone in the party knew the pot was standing handy in
the cloakroom. And he could have crossed the hall without being seen and
lurked behind the service door until the charade was over and everyone
was moving about. Then he would only have needed to open the door a very
little way in order to put out the lights. Of course there’s no proof
that he did anything of the sort—that switch has an absolute
criss-cross of fingerprints. And when Leigh turned on the lights from
over by the outer door, Tote was in the open drawing-room doorway,
apparently about to emerge into the hall. Look at the plan.”

Miss Silver coughed and said,

“Very interesting.”

Frank Abbott went on.

“But Tote could have done it. At the service door he was in a position
to see the luminous mark on Porlock’s back. That is to say, he was
slightly behind him, the door being at the back of the hall in
prolongation of the line of the stair. Like Carroll he could have worn a
glove, or he could have wiped the dagger. After that he had only to
reach the drawing-room door, open it, and turn round so as to look as if
he was coming out. He could have done it on his head.”

“My dear Frank!” Miss Silver’s tone reproved the slang.

He threw her a kiss.

“We’re getting along nicely—two murderers in about three minutes. Here
comes a third. Shakespearian, isn’t it? First, Second, and Third
Murderers. Enter the rather saturnine Mr. Masterman, a gloomy cove who
looks the part to a T, which murderers generally don’t. Porlock was
probably blackmailing him too. Our chief eavesdropper, Pearson, only got
away with an intriguing fragment about a missing will, but I should say
there was something in it. We’ve been busy on the telephone, and it
transpires that Masterman and his sister came in for a packet about
three months ago from an old cousin who boarded with them. Nothing
extraordinary about that, but the death was sudden, and there was
apparently some local talk, reinforced by the fact that, whereas
Masterman has been spending in a big way, the sister has gone about
looking like death and wearing out shabby old clothes. They were, I
gather, tolerably hard up until they came in for fifty thousand apiece
under the old cousin’s will. Connecting this with what Pearson
overheard, it looks as if Cousin Mabel might have made a second will and
been tidied out of the way—or perhaps only the will. Now, to consider
Masterman as Third Murderer. I don’t think there’s much doubt that
Porlock was blackmailing him. He was in the charade, with ample
opportunity for picking up a spot of luminous paint—probably on a
handkerchief. He had every opportunity of marking Porlock, easy access
to the switch by the hearth, and no need to wipe off his prints, since
he was known to have turned on the lights there at the close of the
charade. Say he put them out again as soon as he saw Porlock turn back
from the foot of the stairs. He had only to cross the hall until he was
behind him, strike him down, and get over to the other side of the
hearth. All quite easy—and, as you are about to observe, unsupported by
a single shred of evidence.”

Miss Silver coughed, and said thoughtfully,

“That is not what I was about to say. But pray go on.”

He gave her a sharp glance. It met with no response. He did as he was
told.

“Now for Miss Lane. She was undoubtedly being blackmailed, and she is a
very fine, upstanding, handsome young woman who wouldn’t take at all
kindly to it. Pearson only heard something enigmatic about a bracelet.
If she was being blackmailed about that she pulled a fast one on the
late Gregory—see description of her bounding into the drawing-room and
displaying a very handsome bracelet and telling everyone how marvellous
Greg had been to get it back for her after she had lost it. Well, he
didn’t contradict her, but we’ve come across the bill for the bracelet.
He paid a pretty price for it. It wasn’t true, what Pearson heard him
tell her, that the bracelet was fully described in the bill—it wasn’t.
But we got on to the jeweller, and he said it was sold to him in
November by Miss Moira Lane. Gives you something to think about, doesn’t
it? But on the whole, I don’t know about Moira. I don’t see how she
could have turned out the lights without upsetting Masterman’s
fingerprints, for one thing.”

Miss Silver coughed.

“A woman could raise or depress a switch without touching more than a
very small portion of the surface, and if it were done with the
fingernail, there would be no print.”

Frank sat up with a jerk.

“You’ve got it! Anyone could have done it with a fingernail! What a dolt
I am! I never thought about it. I’ve been trying to see how anyone
except Masterman could have handled that switch, and there’s the answer,
right under my nose!” He spread out a hand and frowned at five well kept
nails, then suddenly relaxed. “It was under the Chief’s nose too—but
perhaps we won’t rub that in. Well, Moira Lane could have done it, and
so—and a great deal more likely—could Martin Oakley.”

Miss Silver fixed him with an intelligent eye.

“The statements you have given me to read do not include one from Mrs.
Oakley.”

“No, I kept that back. We saw Martin Oakley and her maid yesterday, but
we didn’t see her until this morning.”

“Her maid? Had she anything to say?”

There was a sparkle of malice in his eyes.

“Only that Mrs. Oakley committed bigamy when she married Oakley—the
first husband being Glen Porteous alias Gregory Porlock.”

“Dear me!”

Frank produced another of his type-written sheets.

“She listened to a conversation between her mistress and Porlock on
Wednesday afternoon. You’d better read my notes.”

When she had done so she looked up gravely and said,

“So he was blackmailing her too.”

“Undoubtedly. She doesn’t admit it—she doesn’t admit anything. She just
cries and says, ‘Please don’t tell Martin.’ I wish you could have been
there, because you would probably have known whether she was putting on
an act. She’s one of those little fluffy women—brain apparently left
out. I say apparently, because the Chief says he’s met that sort before,
and you can’t always tell. He swears they have an instinct for putting
on a scene. I expect you would have been able to tell whether it was
genuine or not. And it’s important, because everything turns on whether
she told Martin Oakley that Glen Porteous had turned up and was
blackmailing her. If she did, he had all the motive any jury could want.
If she didn’t, he hadn’t any motive at all. Porlock was his friend and
they were doing business together. He simply hadn’t got a motive—if
Mrs. Oakley held her tongue. She says she did. Martin Oakley says she
did, but then of course he would. I may say that he put up a most
convincing show—dumbfounded astonishment, resentment, anger, and, at
the end something as near a breakdown as you’d get in a man of his type.
If he was putting it on he’s an uncommon good actor. As far as the
physical side of it goes, he could have turned off the lights, and he
could have stabbed Porlock, just as any one of the group round the
hearth could have done. And that brings us to Mrs. Oakley.”

“Yes?”

Frank nodded.

“She certainly had a motive, and she had the same opportunity as
everyone else. She was right beside the body when the lights went on.
Everyone says she looked dazed. She went down on her knees beside him
and began to scream out his name, calling him Glen and saying, ‘They’ve
killed him!’ Whether she had the brains to plan the murder—and it must
have been carefully planned—is another matter. You wouldn’t say she
had. The Chief isn’t sure. I think he’s rather impressed by the strength
of the motive. He says it’s surprising what a woman will do if she’s
faced with the loss of her husband and her child.”

Miss Silver had picked up her knitting. The needles clicked. She said,

“Women do not readily use a knife—not in this country—not unless it is
a weapon snatched up in the heat of a quarrel. This was a premeditated
blow, the dagger carefully selected. I will not say that no woman would
be capable of such a deed, but I do say that only a very unusual woman
would choose such a way of extricating herself from an unfortunate
situation. The woman you and Miss Brown have described would be far more
likely to weep upon her husband’s shoulder and leave the matter in his
hands. Of course I have not seen Mrs. Oakley, and the Chief Inspector
has. I have a great respect for his opinion and can agree with his
conclusions, but human nature can be very unexpected.”

Frank Abbott laughed.

“He loves it when you agree with him. It doesn’t happen very often, does
it? Well, that’s the field. Pearson wasn’t on the spot, and, as he took
pains to explain, devotion to a client’s interests would hardly take him
as far as murder. As for the others, Miss Masterman is a possible, and
so, I suppose, is Mrs. Tote, but the Chief doesn’t think either of them
likely. Justin Leigh had no motive, and Dorinda Brown—well, she’s sole
legatee, but it’s practically certain that she couldn’t possibly have
known the terms of the will. So there we are—Carroll, Tote, Masterman,
Oakley and Mrs. Oakley, Moira Lane——”

There was a brief silence. The infant’s vest revolved. The colour really
was extremely pretty. Miss Silver appeared to be concentrating her
attention upon the clicking needles. Presently, whilst continuing to
knit, she raised her eyes and said briskly,

“Was there a fire in the hall?”

“Yes, I believe so.”

“Then how much light did it give? As I passed just now I observed that
there was a good wood fire. Such a fire would throw out a considerable
amount of light. It would affect the question of whether Mr. Tote could
have made his way across the hall without being observed and——”

Frank Abbott interrupted.

“Yes, I know—you think of everything, don’t you? I ought to have told
you that the fire had been dowsed.”

“By whom?”

“By Masterman, under Carroll’s orders. Carroll couldn’t do with the
firelight for his charade. He wanted the hall to be dark, with the
single lamp on the mantelpiece arranged to be as much like a spotlight
as possible. They put a cone of brown paper on it and tilted it so that
the light fell in a pool just where it caught his people one by one as
they came down off the bottom step and turned at the newel. Leigh says
it was very effective. They came down the stairs and passed through the
light and out of it into the dark back of the hall. Masterman was in
charge of the lighting. Carroll told him to dowse the fire. He was also
first in the procession, and when he had done his part he worked round
the edge of the hall and came back to the hearth, ready to turn on the
lights when the show was over. I say that Tote could have crossed the
hall without being noticed, because nobody noticed Masterman work his
way back from the service door to the hearth. Of course they were all
watching the charade then, but I say Tote could have done it. Everyone
would have been moving, and no one would have been thinking about him.”

Miss Silver continued to knit. She said,

“Quite so. There is now a very important point which I wish to raise.
Mr. Porlock’s back was marked with luminous paint. How large was this
patch?”

“About three inches by four. It was an irregular patch, not a circle.
There is no doubt at all about its purpose.”

“No,” said Miss Silver. “Very shocking indeed. But the luminous paint
must have been conveyed in some manner which would prevent its spilling
and marking not only the victim but the murderer. You yourself suggested
a handkerchief. I am inclined to agree. Has any such handkerchief been
found?”

“No.”

“If the fire was dowsed, the handkerchief could not have been burned.
Did anyone leave the hall before the local Inspector arrived?”

“No. Leigh kept everyone there. He’s an able chap—he wouldn’t let
anyone leave the hall. But I’m afraid that when Hughes arrived his ideas
of a search were a bit perfunctory. He put the women in a room by
themselves whilst he sent for a female searcher, and he had the men
searched for bloodstains and paint-marks. There were no bloodstains,
either on the men or on the women—there wasn’t any external bleeding.
Carroll had smears of luminous paint, and so had Moira Lane and
Masterman. It just proves nothing at all. Carroll was smothered with the
stuff in his part as the devil, and the charade ended with his embracing
Miss Lane. Carroll threw down his luminous mask upon the hall table, and
Miss Lane threw her things there too. She was wearing a red velvet dress
under her robe, and there was a mark on her left shoulder—rather a wet
one. Masterman had a smear on his right cuff. He could have got it
stabbing Gregory Porlock, but apparently he didn’t. Moira Lane says he
pointed out the mark on her shoulder. She says he brushed up against
her, and then exclaimed and said, ‘You’re all over paint. I’ve got some
of it on my cuff. Hadn’t you better wipe it off?’ That was before Hughes
arrived.”

“My dear Frank!”

“Yes—I know. It’s just what he might have done if he had noticed a
smear which would have to be accounted for. On the other hand, he did
brush up against her, and she had got a large wet patch on her shoulder.
It wouldn’t be any good putting that smear on his cuff to a jury—now,
would it?”

“I suppose not—unless there was other evidence in support. Was there
anyone else who was marked with the paint?”

“No, there wasn’t. I think Hughes was quite thorough about that. What
hadn’t occurred to him was the question as to how the paint had been
carried. I think he was all out for Carroll as the murderer, and he took
it for granted that the luminous mark on Porlock’s back had been made by
a paint-smeared hand. Carroll’s hands were all over paint, and he had
gone upstairs to wash them. Nice simple line of explanation—perfectly
satisfactory to Hughes, so he never looked below what you might call the
surface of the men’s handkerchiefs. I don’t think the paint could have
been hidden if it had been on one of those flimsy squares of muslin that
women drop about all over the place—it would have come through.”

Miss Silver coughed gently,

“My dear boy, not muslin—cambric, or linen.”

An almost colourless eyebrow jerked.

“Call them anything you like—paint would show through. But a man’s
handkerchief could be carefully folded up to hide a paint-stain. Hughes
just looked blank when I asked him if he’d had all the handkerchiefs
spread out. He hadn’t. You expect a man to have a handkerchief—you take
it for granted. At least you don’t, but Hughes did. Which gives the
murderer the best part of twenty-four hours to get rid of the evidence.
By the time I’d thought about a handkerchief and put Hughes on to going
through the house with a toothcomb there naturally wasn’t anything left
for him to find.”

Miss Silver put away her knitting and got up.

“I should like to go into the hall, but before we do so, will you tell
me what results have been obtained in the way of fingerprints?”

“I think I told you about the four sets of switches. The one at the top
of the stairs had been wiped clean. The one by the service door was just
a mess. The one by the hearth had Masterman’s prints, and the one by the
hall door Justin Leigh’s—both quite innocently accounted for. The
dagger had been wiped clean—there were no prints there——” He stopped
beneath a searching gaze.

“Were no other prints found?”

The eyebrow jerked again.

“What other prints were there to take? Most of these people were staying
in the house. The others had been dining, moving about in the hall.
Their prints would be all over the place, and they wouldn’t prove a
thing.”

Miss Silver coughed, picked up Justin Leigh’s plan, and led the way into
the hall.

It was empty. The electric candles shed a soft light upon the stone
flags and the two long Persian runners which crossed them. But Miss
Silver was not looking at the floor. She walked over to the hearth and
stood there, her eyes lifted to the trophy of arms above the stone
mantelshelf. Hanging there on the broad chimney-breast, it had the air
of some military decoration pinned to a rough grey coat, for the
chimney-breast like the ledge was of stone, breaking the panelled wall.
There were old flintlocks, four cumbersome pistols, and a ring of
daggers. The bottom dagger was missing. Miss Silver stood looking at the
place where it had been.

After a little while she turned round and looked in the direction of the
stairs. Then she turned her head, glanced towards the switches on the
left-hand side of the hearth, and back again at the staircase. At the
sound of approaching voices she went back into the study. When she had
seated herself and taken up her knitting again she enquired,

“How tall are you, Frank?”

He looked surprised.

“Five-foot-eleven.”

“Mr. Masterman would be a little taller?”

He said, “Yes. Oakley and Masterman are both taller—about six foot. I
should give Justin Leigh another inch. Moira Lane must be all of
five-foot-nine—Dorinda Brown not quite so tall. Mrs. Oakley is about
your height. Tote not more than five-foot-seven.”

She said, “I was extremely pleased to observe that there was dust upon
the mantelpiece—quite a considerable amount. It seemed almost too much
to hope for, but the hall does not really look as if it had been
dusted.”

Frank Abbott laughed.

“I don’t suppose it has. Pearson had the sense to leave everything until
we came, and I told him to go on leaving it until I said. Well, I’m
afraid I quite forgot to say.”

Miss Silver smiled.

“A truly fortunate circumstance.”

He was sitting astride one of the upright chairs with his arms folded on
the back.

“Now, what are you getting at?”

She was knitting rapidly.

“I hope that it may be possible to recover fingerprints which may prove
of great importance. I should like you to ring up and ask to have
someone sent out at once. Will you do so?”

He looked at her sharply.

“Blind?”

She smiled. Miss Silver’s smile had an extraordinary charm. It had
before now captured hearts and converted the sceptic. Frank Abbott’s
heart had been captured long ago. A young man not much given to
enthusiasms, he undoubtedly had one for his “revered preceptress”. He
had also a very complete confidence in her judgment. When, therefore,
she said primly, “I do not think there is any time to be lost,” he got
up, went over to the table, and picked up the telephone receiver.

When the ensuing short conversation had been closed by a definitive
click he came back to his place and said,

“All right, ma’am. Do I get anything explained to me, or do I just wait
for the explosion?”

This time she did not smile. She looked across the busy needles and the
pale pink wool and said,

“I shall be very happy to explain. But before I do so perhaps you will
go into the hall and measure the distance from the ground to where the
handle of the missing dagger would have been.”

“Oh—so that’s it? All right.”

He went out and came back again.

“Six foot or thereabouts. I take it fractions don’t matter.”

“No. I believe you see my point. The stone ledge which crosses the
chimney breast and serves as a mantelshelf is, I should say, twelve to
fourteen inches lower. It is perhaps fourteen inches deep. It has
occurred to me that scarcely anyone would reach across such a ledge to
remove an object hanging just above it without putting a hand upon the
ledge. Of course, as you are about to say, anyone staying in the house
might have rested a hand upon that shelf without having any connection
with the murder. But if the prints of a suspect were found, their
position and direction might prove valuable corroborative evidence.”

He nodded.

“Have you got anything else up your sleeve?”

The smile came out again.

“I think so. All the suspects are known to have been present in the hall
at the time that Gregory Porlock was stabbed, with the exception of Mr.
Tote, who may have been in the drawing-room or waiting behind the
service-door, and Mr. Carroll, who had gone upstairs to wash and was
found to be on the third step from the top of the stairs when the lights
came on after the murder. If we are accepting it as an axiom—and I
think we must—that it was the murderer who had turned out the lights,
Mr. Carroll, if it was he, could only have done so by using the switches
at the top of the stairs. And the probabilities are that Mr. Tote, if it
was he, would have used the switches at the back of the hall by the
service door. These probabilities appear to be so strong as almost to
constitute a certainty. For everybody else there was only one set of
switches which was both accessible and, owing to the shifting of the
group round the fire, not too much exposed to observation. I refer to
the switches on the left of the hearth. Now, my dear Frank, pray
consider. Leaving Mr. Carroll and Mr. Tote on one side for the moment,
let us suppose that the murderer is one of that group round the fire. He
has his plan all ready. He has put his mark on Gregory Porlock’s back so
as to make sure of finding a vital place in the dark. He turns out the
lights. Now remember that Mr. Porlock, who had gone over in the
direction of the staircase, had already turned and was coming back. That
is to say, he was facing the murderer, and the bright spot of luminous
paint on his back was therefore not visible. What would the murderer do?
I think he would cross the hall as quickly as he could with a hand
stretched out in front of him till he came up against the staircase.
This would bring him behind his victim, and at no great distance. The
luminous patch would be right in front of him as he turned, and he would
only have to step forward and strike.”

“You think we might get a print of the murderer’s hand on the panelled
side of the staircase?”

“Or on the balustrade. I am not clear as to the height reached by the
stair at a point immediately opposite the switches.”

Frank Abbott said thoughtfully,

“It’s worth trying for. But if he was wearing gloves, it’s a wash-out.”

Miss Silver gave her gentle cough.

“I think it very improbable that he would have been wearing gloves. By
the way, I assume that no glove has been found.”

“No.”

“It would almost certainly have been marked with paint. I do not believe
that the murderer wore a glove. He would have so short a time to dispose
of it. It would be much simpler and safer to wipe the hilt of the
dagger. To return to a possible print on the side of the staircase. It
would, I think, be likely to be a left-hand print, since the right hand
would either be holding the dagger or ready to take hold of it without
an instant of delay.”

The cold blue eyes held a spark of admiration. Frank Abbott said,

“Any more aces?”

“My dear Frank!”

“I should like to know. You know what the Chief is like when you pull a
fast one.”

“My _dear_ Frank!”

His eyes teased as well as admired.

“Come—as man to man, is that all?”

Miss Silver was indulgent to the young. She smiled benignly, gave her
slight cough, and said,

“For the moment.”




                                  XXIX


The evening which ensued was a curious one. If the house-party had
seemed strangely incompatible whilst still held together by the rich and
genial personality of Gregory Porlock, there were, now that he was dead,
no longer any points of contact between its various members. If the
original bond had been fear, it had been camouflaged by all that social
sense could suggest. To vary the metaphor—if the current ran cold
below, there had been a certain glitter on the surface. There was now
nothing but a collection of frightened and uncomfortable people
constrained to one another’s company and dreadfully conscious that the
shadow which lay across them was to deepen before it lifted, and that
for one of them it would most probably never lift at all.

A little, as it were, on the edge of all this gloom, Justin could
approve the manner in which Dorinda played a new and difficult part. She
was the hostess, but there should be no stressing of the fact. She
carried it quietly and simply—a young girl called to take some older
person’s place. She showed a charming consideration to Miss Masterman,
with her dark, drawn face, and to Mrs. Tote, more like a mouse than
ever—a very unhappy mouse which had been crying its eyes out.

Miss Masterman had no response to make. She was now entirely given up to
waiting for a reply to the letter which she had sent. All her
intelligence, all her emotions, her whole consciousness, waited ardently
for the moment when she would be free from the burden which she had
carried for these intolerable months. Alone amongst those present she
was not primarily concerned with Gregory Porlock and the manner of his
death. There was not really room in her mind for anything except the
release for which she waited.

Miss Silver was probably the only person who enjoyed her dinner. She
appreciated good food, and even a murder in the house could not obscure
the superlative excellence of Mrs. Rodgers’ cooking. When they adjourned
to the drawing room she produced her knitting. The pale pink infant’s
vest now approaching completion awoke a faint spark of interest in Mrs.
Tote. Before she knew where she was she was telling this comfortingly
dowdy little person all about Allie and Allie’s baby, and how she hoped
there would be another. “Not too soon, because I don’t hold with that,
but it doesn’t do to put off too long either, because if it comes to
years between like you get nowadays, where’s the company for the
children? Every one of them’s an only child, as you may say, and when
all’s said and done, what a child wants is company, and not a lot of
grown-ups keeping it on the strain. A child wants other children to
tumble about with and fight and make up with. I only had the one
myself—at least only the one that lived, but I know what children ought
to have.”

Miss Silver agreeing, they became quite cozy over a knitting-stitch.

Miss Masterman took up the paper. She did not read it, but if you hold
up a newspaper, people leave you alone, and all she wanted was to be
left alone.

Moira Lane turned from the fire, looked for a moment at Dorinda, and
said,

“Come and talk to me.” Then she laughed. “For God’s sake let’s be human!
I don’t think you did it, and I hope you don’t think I did, but if you
do you might as well say so. Let’s get into the other settee and stop
being polite and inhibited. Who do you think did do it? I don’t mind
saying, whoever the murderer was, he did an uncommonly good job. Greg
was poison. If he’s your uncle, you probably know as much about that as
I do.”

Dorinda looked into the blue dancing eyes. The dance was a defiant one.
She thought about Morgiana dancing in front of the Captain of the Forty
Thieves and plunging a dagger up to the hilt in his breast. A feeling of
horror came over her. It showed in her voice as she said,

“Not my uncle—my aunt’s husband.”

Moira’s laugh rang out.

“Who cares what he was? He was poison! And you’re just chocked up with
inhibitions. You’d be a lot more comfortable without them. What were you
thinking about just now when you looked as if you’d caught me
red-handed?”

“Morgiana and the Captain of the Forty Thieves—out of the Arabian
Nights—where she stabs him.”

Moira was lighting a cigarette. Her hand was as steady as a rock. The
flame of the match caught the paper and crept in along the brown shreds
of tobacco. She threw the match into the fire and drew at the cigarette
until the whole tip glowed red. Then, and not till then, she turned an
interested gaze upon Dorinda.

“Do you know, I believe you’re clever, because I can just see myself
doing that. She danced, didn’t she? Well, you could work yourself up
like that—couldn’t you? Of course you’d have to hate the man to start
with, but however much I hated anyone, I couldn’t stick a knife into him
in cold blood—could you? It gives me pins and needles to think of it.
But you might be able to work yourself up to it with some good whirling
music and the sort of dance that gets faster and faster and faster——”
She broke off, rather pale.

Dorinda said quickly, “You said I was clever. I’m going to tell you
you’re stupid. It’s idiotic to talk like that, and you ought to have the
sense to know it without being told.”

Moira blew out a little cloud of smoke. Her delicate eyebrows rose.

“Going to tell the police?” Her voice was lazy.

Dorinda said, “Don’t be silly!” as sharply as if they had both been
schoolgirls.

“It might interest them,” said the lazy voice.

“I shouldn’t think so.”

Moira laughed.

“Do you know, I like you.”

“Thank you!”

“You needn’t be sarcastic—I meant it. I oughtn’t to, because I suppose
you’re my hated rival. Justin’s in love with you, isn’t he?”

“Oh, _no_!”

Dorinda hadn’t blushed. She had turned rather pale. The gold-brown eyes
looked at Moira with inescapable candour.

“Oh, _no_—he _isn’t_!”

Moira seemed amused.

“Did he tell you so?”

Dorinda held her head up.

“He is my cousin, and he has been very good to me. I am very fond of
him, and I hope he is fond of me.”

Moira said, “Go on hoping!” Then she laughed. “Didn’t anyone ever tell
you that you ought to tell the truth—unless you can put up a really
convincing lie? Which you can’t. I can, but I’m not going to. I could
have done with Justin myself, but I shan’t get him. I might have done if
it hadn’t been for you.” She blew out another little cloud of smoke. “I
don’t mean to say that I’m in off the deep end, so you needn’t lock your
door in case I creep in in the middle of the night with another of those
daggers. But I could have done with Justin, and I’ve an idea that he
could have done with me if there hadn’t been any Dorinda Brown. So what
a good thing I like you, isn’t it?”

Dorinda looked troubled.

“Moira——”

“Yes?”

“We don’t know each other at all—and we’re talking like this. I think I
know why.”

“All right—why?”

Dorinda struck her hands together.

“It’s because it’s all too horrid really. We’ve got to get something
else into it—something to make us forget how horrid it is. Making it
all seem like nonsense is one way. That’s why you said that idiotic
thing about coming into my room with a dagger. And talking about Justin
is another. It makes it all——” She hesitated for a moment and came out
with, “fantastic. It’s like turning it into a play—it stops it being
real and—frightening.”

Moira looked at her. Then she said drily,

“Quite a bright child, aren’t you? In other words, we dramatize this
sort of thing in order to keep the upper hand of it. So awkward if it
took charge and started in to dramatize us!”

Coffee was served in the drawing-room. Pearson having announced that
fact to Justin Leigh, the men came wandering in. Miss Silver, to whose
prompting the announcement had been due, watched them attentively. Mr.
Carroll had drunk quite a lot at dinner. Left to himself, he would
probably have drunk a good deal more, hence the hint to Pearson as the
ladies crossed the hall. As a gentlewoman, she deplored any degree of
intemperance. As a detective, she had no objection to his drinking
enough to loosen his tongue, but no possible end would be served by his
drinking himself into a stupor in the dining-room. She had wondered to
what extent he would be amenable to social pressure, and was relieved
when he entered the drawing-room a little flushed and with that crooked
look rather more noticeable, but with no other sign that his glass had
been filled about twice as often as anyone else’s.

When Mr. Masterman and Justin Leigh came in, she reflected upon the
contrast they presented—a contrast all the more marked because the same
superficial description could have been applied to either. They were
both tall, dark men, but there it ended. Mr. Leigh carried an air of
distinction. By common consent, no one had dressed for dinner. Miss
Silver congratulated herself upon this. The black and white of a man’s
formal evening dress tends to level out those evidences of individual
taste which sometimes afford an invaluable clue to character. Mr.
Leigh’s grey suit was not only very well cut, but it appeared so
completely right as to be almost part of himself. Mr. Masterman had not
the same power of relegating his clothes to the background. They gave
Miss Silver the impression of being too new, and of their having cost
more than he had been accustomed to spend. This may have been because
Mr. Masterman himself might have been encountered without surprise in
places where his clothes would immediately have attracted
attention—such places, for instance, as behind the counter of a bank or
in any City office. There was, in fact, a sense of discrepancy.

Mr. Tote’s suit had probably cost as much as it is possible for a suit
to cost, because one of the main objects in Mr. Tote’s life at this time
was to buy where the buying was dearest, a process which he described as
“getting the best.” His figure had, unfortunately, proved very
unresponsive. It is more than possible that the tailor may have lost
heart. He would certainly have done so if he could have foreseen that
Mr. Tote would violate the sartorial decencies and insult that discreet
dark suiting with a bright green tie lavishly patterned in yellow
horseshoes.

Mr. Carroll was in brown. Not quite the right shade of brown. Miss
Silver considered that it was a little too marked to be in really good
taste. Quite a bizarre shade. And the orange tie, the orange
handkerchief—not at all suitable.

She herself was wearing her last summer’s dress dyed prune, with the
black velvet coatee which she always brought down to a country house in
the winter. Central heating there might be, but sometimes quite
unreliable. She had a gold chain about her neck, and wore a brooch of
Irish bog-oak in the form of a rose with a large pale pearl in the
middle of it.

With that nice sense of propriety which enabled him to play his butler’s
part with so much decorum, Pearson had set the coffee-tray in front of
Miss Brown, having first placed a small table there to receive it.
Dorinda, her colour deepening, took up the heavy coffee-pot and began to
look from one to the other, waiting to ask about milk and sugar, but
with the feeling that the stiff silence which had fallen was harder to
break in upon than any buzz of conversation. Mrs. Tote had stopped
talking about Allie and the baby as soon as her husband came in. She did
not talk about anything else, because none of the other things which
filled her thoughts were the kind of things you can talk about in a
drawing-room full of strangers. You can’t say, “Perhaps my husband is a
murderer”, or even, “Perhaps the police think so.” Yet the minute she
stopped talking about Allie the cold darkness of these thoughts rushed
in and quenched the fight. She sat in the dark and trembled. Perhaps she
wasn’t the only one.

Justin had his own ideas about that. He had come to Dorinda’s rescue and
solved her problem by handing round the milk and sugar in the wake of
Mr. Masterman, who took the cups. When everyone was served except Miss
Masterman, who refused coffee with a monosyllable and remained behind
her newspaper screen, he came back to put down milk-jug and sugar-basin
and take the place which the two girls had left between them on the
settee. The silence had, if anything, stiffened. Dorinda had the feeling
that if anyone were to speak something might break.

It was Miss Silver who said, “What delicious coffee!” She looked round
as if she were collecting votes. “Really delicious, is it not?”

Nobody answered her.

Mr. Masterman stood with his back to the fire, his coffee-cup upon the
mantelshelf. Mr. Tote had taken an armchair and _The Times_. Mr. Carroll
hovered, cup in hand, rather like an insect looking for a place to
settle. He was on the outskirts of the group when he broke into strident
laughter.

“Delicious coffee! Delicious company! And, hell—what a delicious
evening in front of us!”

Moira threw him a cool glance.

“Going to make a fool of yourself to brighten things up? Quite an idea!”

His small bright eyes held hers for a moment. There was so hot a spark
of malice in them that it startled her. If she had been another sort of
woman she might have been afraid. As it was, everything in her sat up
and took notice. “He’s got something. What has he got? What is he going
to do?” Her lips curled in a sarcastic smile.

Leonard Carroll’s left shoulder, which always looked a little higher
than the right, gave a quick jerk and he was off. He laughed again in
the same edgy manner.

“All right—I’m an entertainer, aren’t I? And now I’m going to entertain
you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am about to present an entirely unrehearsed
and original act entitled ‘Whodunit?’ Breathless excitement—thrills
guaranteed. A nice pat on the back from the police for the person who
spots the murderer.”

Justin Leigh made an abrupt movement. He appeared to be about to get to
his feet. Before he could do so he encountered Miss Silver’s eye,
warning, threatening, and commanding, as in Mr. Wordsworth’s
pen-portrait of the perfect woman. Its effect, which was immediate, was
to make him lean back again and hold his tongue.

Everyone, with the possible exception of Miss Masterman, was now looking
at Leonard Carroll. He had dropped his showman’s manner and proceeded in
an easy confidential tone.

“We’re all thinking about Greg, so why not talk about him? You can’t get
rid of a corpse by ignoring it—well, I mean, can you? Let’s have the
whole thing out and clear the air. There’s only one person who ought to
mind. The murderer isn’t going to like it, naturally. And naturally no
one’s going to say they don’t like it after that. And now—‘Ring up the
Curtain!’ ” He threw back his head and sang the phrase with which the
curtain rises upon _Pagliacci_, then dropped to a low narrative tone.
“Act II, Scene I. The murder has taken place, the lights have just been
switched on, the hall is full of people. Leonard Carroll is on the third
step from the top of the stairs looking down on them.” His voice went
deep into the dark places where things crawl. “He is looking down on all
the others, and he has a damned good view.”

A bright, crooked glance zig-zagged from one to the other of the group
which faced him. This group was, in point of fact, a half circle fanning
out from where Mr. Masterman leaned against the mantelpiece. Leonard
Carroll stood in the open side of the half circle and let his malicious
glance run to and fro, flicking over the hands with which Miss Masterman
held up her newspaper screen, over the congested face of Mr. Tote, who
had dropped _The Times_ across his knees, over Miss Silver and her
knitting, over Mrs. Tote with her reddened eyelids, past Mr. Masterman’s
frown, to where Justin Leigh was leaning back with an abstracted air
between a girl who had flushed and a girl who was pale.

Dorinda looked sideways and saw that Justin was angry. When he looked
like that it meant that he was very angry indeed. It meant that he was
holding himself in. The foolish, useless wish came into her mind that
the evening might be over and everyone safe in bed. And all this just a
dream to wake up from next day, and say, “How silly!” and say, “It
doesn’t matter how silly it is, as long as it isn’t true.”

Leonard Carroll’s flickering glance came home again. He repeated his
last words in a meditative tone.

“A damned good view. Leigh was so very quick, wasn’t he? He may have
been a thought too quick for someone. It’s just possible—well, isn’t
it? And Leonard Carroll on that third step from the top of the stairs
would have such a damned good view. If there was anything to see, he
could hardly have missed it—well, could he?”

Mr. Tote lifted his heavy bulk, flinging round in the padded chair to
fix small angry eyes upon Carroll’s face. It was a look which might have
given some men pause.

“What’s all this hinting? Why don’t you come and sit down and behave
yourself? If you’ve got anything to say, why don’t you say it and have
done? And if you haven’t, what’s the good of hinting that you have?”

Carroll laughed.

“Oh, you mustn’t be too hard on my poor entertainment. A little
mystery—a little conjecture—a sprinkle of what you call hints—I’m
afraid we can’t do without them. For instance, take your own case. I’m
not saying what I saw, or what I didn’t see, but—now, who was it was
telling me you threw a pretty dart? ... Oh, yes—it was your wife.”

Mr. Tote’s neck became quite alarmingly red.

“What’s that to you?”

Carroll’s lips twisted in a smile.

“To me? Oh, nothing. To Gregory Porlock perhaps a great deal. That
dagger could have been thrown—well, I mean, couldn’t it? And I’m still
not saying what I saw or didn’t see from my balcony stall.”

“Look here——” Mr. Tote’s voice choked with fury on the second word.

Miss Silver glanced brightly across her clicking needles and said,

“Dear me—how extremely interesting! Such an original entertainment! But
quite impersonal of course, is it not, Mr. Carroll?”

He returned her look with one of light contempt. It changed to sparkling
malice as he shifted it to Jeffrey Masterman.

“How very fortunate to have a balcony stall—isn’t it? So pleasantly
removed from the struggling herd in the pit. You know, that light really
did come on a bit sooner than it was meant to—just a bit sooner. Just a
bit too soon for somebody.” His glance moved on, touching Dorinda,
passing Justin, settling on Moira Lane. “Odd how you see things when the
lights come on suddenly like that. Extraordinary sharp and clear. Pitch
dark one minute, and then biff—everything hits you in the eye. Quite an
odd experience, and—yes, that’s the word—unforgettable. Quite, quite
unforgettable.” He walked over to the tray and set down his coffee-cup.
“And now, as you are all so pressing, I will entertain you upon the
piano. Our lamented Gregory having engaged me for that purpose, I
imagine that I shall have a claim upon his estate for my fee.”

There certainly was a slight drag in his step as he walked over to the
grand piano and opened it. The silence which had followed what might be
called the first part of his entertainment persisted. Nobody moved,
nobody spoke. More than one person must have been thinking furiously.

Carroll had a charming touch on the piano. A few chords came into the
silence, followed by a light malicious voice in the words and the tune
of an old nursery rhyme:

    “ ‘Who killed Cock Robin?
        I said the Sparrow,
      With my bow and arrow,
        I killed Cock Robin.’ ”




                                  XXX


Before ten o’clock the party had separated for the night. An evening of
profound discomfort was now something to look back upon with feelings of
interest, doubt, suspicion, uncertainty, fear, or derisive amusement.
Whichever of these feelings predominated in Mr. and Mrs. Tote, Mr.
Carroll, Mr. and Miss Masterman, Moira Lane, Dorinda, and Justin, there
is no doubt that Miss Silver had been very much interested. She had been
in her room for some twenty minutes, but she had not so much as
unfastened her bog-oak brooch, when a light tap sounded on her door.
Opening it, she beheld Pearson, with an air of meek mystery and a finger
at his lips.

Emerging, Miss Silver looked the enquiry she forbore to speak, and was
beckoned farther along the passage. They passed Dorinda’s room on the
right, and that occupied by Miss Masterman on the left, descended three
of those unreasonable and quite dangerous steps so frequent in old
houses, turned the corner, and came into an irregularly shaped room
where an overhead light shone down upon bookshelves, a large globe on a
mahogany stand, a battered upright piano, and what had obviously been a
schoolroom table. Hovering midway between the butler and the fellow
detective, Pearson hoped that Miss Silver didn’t mind his disturbing
her—“but I thought you ought to know.”

“Certainly, Mr. Pearson. What is it?”

“You don’t find it cold here?”

Since she had not removed that old and well tried friend her black
velvet coatee, Miss Silver was able to reply,

“Not in the least. Pray tell me what has happened.”

It must be admitted that Pearson had been feeling a little out of it.
Not that he wanted to be involved in a murder case—very far from it.
But to be, as it were, unavoidably in the midst of one, and yet not to
know what was going on was bound to put a strain on him. He had rather
leapt at the first opportunity of relieving this strain. He was now
hoping that his leap was not going to be considered precipitate. Like so
many well-meaning people, he was given to doubts when they could no
longer serve any useful purpose. Miss Silver was an unknown quantity.
Her manner was gracious, but from a certain distance, and without quite
knowing why, it daunted him. She saw his eyes shift like those of a
nervous horse.

Quite unexpectedly she smiled. It was the smile with which in her
distant governessing days it had been her wont to encourage a diffident
or backward pupil. It encouraged Pearson to the point of speech.

“Seeing Mr. Carroll go into the study and shut the door, it came into my
mind in what I might call rather a forcible manner that possibly it was
his intention to use the telephone, and if such was the case, I thought
it might be a good thing, as it were, if I was to——” He stuck, and
Miss Silver helped him out.

“To listen in on the pantry extension?”

“Yes, Miss Silver. And when I heard the number——”

“You recognized it?”

“It was the Mill House number, and he asked straight away for Mrs.
Oakley. Well, of course that was no go, because she never comes to the
telephone, not if it was ever so. But he got Mr. Oakley, and directly he
started in I could see he was going to be nasty. It’s my opinion he’d
had a good bit more to drink than he could carry, as I dare say you may
have noticed yourself when he came into the drawing-room. Not to say
drunk, he wasn’t, but pretty far on with feeling he was cock of the
walk, and not minding whether he got across anyone else or not.”

Miss Silver coughed appreciatively.

“A very graphic description, Mr. Pearson.”

“Well, I thought you must have noticed him, same as I did, the first
minute he started talking to Mr. Oakley. ‘That you, Oakley?’ he
said—very offhand, if you take my meaning. ‘Not dragged you from your
slumbers, I hope. Or perhaps you’re not sleeping so much these nights. I
shouldn’t if I was you. But that’s the advantage of single blessedness,
one hasn’t got these complications to cope with.’ Mr. Oakley said very
stiff, ‘I don’t know what you are talking about, but if you have
anything to say, perhaps you’ll say it.’ ”

Pearson broke off and looked in a deprecating manner at Miss Silver. “I
don’t know whether you happened to notice, but Mr. Carroll has got a way
of laughing. Not at all what I should call the thing—more like what you
might call a snigger, if you know what I mean.”

Miss Silver knew exactly what he meant. She gathered that Carroll had
sniggered at Mr. Oakley, and that Mr. Oakley’s reactions had been
exactly what might have been expected, whereupon Mr. Carroll had not
only repeated the offence, but had said in what Pearson could only
describe as a nasty voice, “Oh, well, I thought you might be interested.
The looker-on sees most of the game, you know. That’s what I’ve been
telling the others. Of course I may have bored them, but I don’t somehow
think that I did. No—I’m almost sure I didn’t. What a pity you and your
wife weren’t there. You’d have been deeply interested, because, you see,
I really did have a very good view of the hall when the lights came on,
and a particularly good view of your wife. But of course, ‘_Honi soit
qui mal y pense_’.”

Pearson’s pronunciation of the famous Garter motto was patriotic in the
extreme. It is safe to say that the country of its origin would have
made very little of it. Miss Silver, herself addicted to a British
pronunciation of the French tongue, understood him perfectly.

“Pray continue, Mr. Pearson.”

“Well, there wasn’t much more. Mr. Oakley said, ‘Hold your tongue!’ and
Mr. Carroll said, ‘Well, I’ve held it up to now, but that’s not to say I
shall go on holding it!’ and he slammed down the receiver.”

“Dear me!” said Miss Silver.

Pearson looked complacent.

“That’s what I thought, madam. And it seemed to me that it would be a
good thing to tell you—the Chief Inspector and Sergeant Abbott not
being available, and not wishing to have it said that I kept anything
back that might be useful to the police.”

“You did perfectly right,” said Miss Silver briskly. “How long ago did
this conversation take place?”

“A matter of maybe five minutes or so. I had the locking-up to see to.
By the time I got round to the front door Mr. Carroll was coming out of
the study and going up to his room.”

He was thanked and dismissed.

About five minutes later Sergeant Abbott was told that he was wanted on
the telephone, an instrument very inconveniently situated in the narrow
entrance-hall of the Ram, to which hostelry he had accompanied his Chief
with misgivings already abundantly justified. The Ram had four bedrooms,
and all the beds were lumpy and smelt of beer, the food exemplified
every sin of omission and commission which a cook can perpetrate, the
beer was bad, and the telephone was in the hall. He had to disentangle
the receiver from somebody else’s coat which reeked of shag.

Miss Silver’s voice came inconguously to his ear. First her slight
cough, and then a prim “Hullo!” He said,

“Frank speaking.”

The primness persisted.

“I am extremely sorry to disturb you. I hope that you had not retired?”

“I’m putting it off as long as possible. I don’t know what they’ve used
in the mattress. It’s not sharp enough for road-metal—I rather suspect
mangelwurzels. I am covered with bucolic bruises.”

Miss Silver’s cough was hortatory.

“I am exceedingly uneasy.”

She had slipped into her British French.

“What’s up?”

“That very foolish young man Mr. Carroll is giving everyone to
understand that he is in possession of some knowledge—evidence—I do
not know what to call it. He pretends——” the word in French bears a
more respectable meaning than in English—“he pretends to have seen
something of an incriminating nature at the moment when the lights came
on. I do not know if it is possible. He was certainly in occupation of a
vantage-point—he may have seen something, or he may not. What troubles
me is the possible consequence of this foolish boasting. It does not
really signify whether there is any truth behind it. What it does
signify is that the murderer may believe that there is, and that he may
act upon his belief. I am extremely uneasy.”

There was a slight pause. After which Frank said,

“What do you want me to do?”

“It would relieve my mind very much to have you in the house. I feel
sure that Miss Brown would offer no objection.”

Sergeant Abbott said gravely,

“You know, this is bribery and corruption—Vi-springs instead of
mangolds, and everything else to match. Well, I can put it up to the
Chief—I don’t suppose he’ll mind. Will you hold on?”

Miss Silver held the line and meditated upon human nature—more
particularly upon Mr. Carroll’s nature. She found it a far from pleasant
subject. Considering the motives which might have prompted him in his
folly, she dealt with such qualities as a sense of inferiority to be
compensated by aggression, jealousy of others more fortunately
placed—in which connection she recalled her favourite Lord Tennyson’s
dictum, “Envy is the fume of little minds”—and, lastly and with great
seriousness, the possibility that this cloud of words was in effect a
smoke-screen to cover his own guilt and blacken others with suspicion.

She was still occupied with these thoughts when Frank Abbott came back
upon the line.

“All right—he hasn’t any objection. Just murmured a few sweet nothings
about mountains out of mole-hills, and suggested that I was after the
fleshpots. Well, it won’t take me more than five or six minutes. I’ll be
right along.”




                                  XXXI


It was to take longer than that. Not because of the distance, since the
Grange lay on the outskirts of the village, with no more than a quarter
of a mile between its pillared gateway and the creaking sign which
displayed a gold ram, rather tarnished, on a green field a good deal the
worse for wear. Frank Abbott, walking briskly, passed the corner where
the church with its squat Saxon tower crouched behind a row of
monumental yews so black and solid that they might have been a wall,
except that they were darker than any masonry could be. A hundred yards
down the lane was the entrance to the Grange. He had a flashlight in the
pocket of his overcoat, but he preferred not to use it. He had been
country-reared, and knew how quickly the eye accommodates itself. After
a few moments of blindness the sky-line becomes evident, hedgerows can
be discerned.

The grey pillars which marked the gateway to the Grange caught some of
the diffused light from a cloud-covered moon. He passed between them,
the gate being open, and heard, a long way off up the drive, the sound
of running footsteps. He heard them, but no sooner had he done so than
they ceased. It was as quick as that. He was left with the certainty
that he had heard someone running. He shifted his suit-case to his left
hand, got hold of his torch, and proceeded up the drive. It was a long
drive, leafless trees overhead and dead flat fields on either side.
There was a sharp double bend like an S, with a pond catching the light
in one curve and a mass of what looked like old holly-bushes in the
other.

It was when he was opposite the hollies that, standing still to listen,
he heard a twig snap and saw something move. In a moment his hand swung
up with the torch. The beam picked out a man’s face—an arm thrown up to
screen it. But not quite quickly enough. Frank Abbott called out
“Oakley!” and Martin Oakley stood his ground.

“Who’s that?”

There was something in his voice—something curious, desperate.

Frank said, “Abbott”, and crossed the space between them.

“What’s up?”

Something very odd here. The man was breathing as if he had been running
for his life. It was all he could do to get enough of that hard-caught
breath to speak with, and then it was only a single word—a name.

“Carroll——”

“What about him?”

“Dead——”

“Do you mean that?”

Martin Oakley had him by the arm. There was a frightful tension about
his grip.

“He’s dead——”

“Where?”

“Up by the house.” He had his breath now. The words came pouring out. “I
didn’t do it—I swear I didn’t! I came to see him, but he was dead when
I got there. He rang up. I tell you he hinted the foulest things. What
sort of mind has a man got to do a thing like that? I don’t know if it
was blackmail he was after.”

Abbott had been holding the torch so that the beam slanted downwards. He
turned it sharply now to let the light shine upon Martin Oakley’s face.
He blinked and threw up a hand. The tumbling words checked. Frank said,

“I wouldn’t talk if I were you—unless you want to make a confession.”

“I never touched him! Take that light away!” He stepped back out of its
range, his hand still up to shield his face.

Abbott said dispassionately,

“Well, just bear in mind that anything you say is liable to be used in
evidence.”

“I tell you I never touched him!”

“All right. You’d better come along and show me where he is.”

The drive wound back to skirt a piece of woodland. Frank Abbott thought
the man who planned it had gone out of his way to make it as long as
possible. Chesterton’s “rolling English drunkard made the rolling
English road” just slid into his mind and out again. Of course that was
why he had heard Oakley when he began to run. He had been actually
nearer the house then than for most of the rest of the way. Half the
lanes in England were like that—you went away from the place you were
going to, and then came back to it again.

They were coming back to it now. The drive came out on a gravel
sweep—“That’s where I heard him run. He must have been scared crazy to
run on the gravel.” He said aloud, “Which way?” And Martin Oakley said,
“Round here to the left.”

There was a belt of shrubbery, not very thick—light leafless tracery of
lilac and syringa, with a dense blackness here and there of holly and
yew, a path threading it to come out upon a small paved court at the
side of the house. Huddled on the paving stones, Leonard Carroll lying
crookedly with the back of his head smashed in.

Martin Oakley said, “He’s dead. I didn’t touch him.”

“Somebody did,” said Frank Abbott coolly.

He stepped forward, felt the dead man’s wrist, and found it warm. He
stepped back again. Then he sent the beam of the torch travelling here
and there. The flags lay damp and furred with moss. Where they met the
wall of the house there was a withered growth of fern, the old fronds
brown and broken, the new ones curled hard upon themselves like fossils,
sheltering against the January frosts. There was no sign of a weapon.
The beam slid up the walls and showed rows of casement windows closed
and curtained. On the ground floor all the windows shut. No light
anywhere to answer the wandering beam.

Abbott said sharply, “Who sleeps this side?”

“I’ve no idea.”

“Then how did you come here?”

“I came to see him.”

“But why here? What brought you here?”

Oakley fetched one of those hard breaths.

“My God, Abbott—you can’t put it on me! I tell you I was coming to see
him.”

“What brought you here—round to the side of the house?”

“I came up to the front door. It was only just after ten when he
telephoned. I made up my mind to see him, to find out what he meant. I
came up to the front door. I thought I heard voices away over here on
the left. The front of the house was all dark. I stepped back to listen.
I thought I heard my own name. I came this way. My feet made a noise on
the gravel. I suppose that’s why I didn’t hear any more. I had a torch.
I did stop to listen once. I thought I heard someone. I called out,
‘Carroll, is that you?’ There wasn’t any answer. I went on, and found
him lying here the way he is now. I didn’t touch him—I swear I didn’t!”

“You didn’t think of giving the alarm?”

“I only thought about getting away. I’m afraid I lost my head a bit. I’d
come over to see him, and there he was—dead. My one idea was to get
away. I started to run, but when I got on to the gravel I realized what
a row I was making and stopped. I tried not to make any more noise. Then
I bumped into you. That’s the absolute truth.”

Frank Abbott wondered. He said,

“We’d better go up to the house.”




                                 XXXII


The telephone had been busy. Martin Oakley had repeated his story to
Chief Inspector Lamb, haled from the borderland of slumber to preside
over another investigation and a new murder. Flashlight photographs were
being taken of the moss-grown courtyard, and of Leonard Carroll lying
there—positively his last appearance on any stage.

Lamb sat beneath the overhead light, his coarse, curly black hair a
little rumpled. It was still thick and abundant except just on the
crown, and showed only a few grey threads at the temples. Under this
strong dark thatch his ruddy, weather-tanned face had no more expression
than a piece of wood. The brown eyes with their slight tendency to bulge
remained fixed upon Mr. Oakley’s face, a habit very disconcerting to
even the most innocent witness. Martin Oakley could by no means flatter
himself that there was any disposition to regard him in this light. His
mind, at first possessed by a frantic sense of incredulity, had now to
struggle against the feeling that he was being rushed towards a
precipice at a speed which precluded intelligent thought. He had
expressed his willingness to make a statement, and was now regretting
it. He had been cautioned, but could not resist the temptation to
explain his actions.

Lamb’s voice struck robustly on his ear.

“Pearson’s account of your telephone conversation with Mr. Carroll is
substantially correct?”

“I think so.”

“Would you like to look at it again?”

“No—it’s all right—that’s what he said.”

“Well now, how long was it before you made up your mind to come and see
him?”

“Oh, almost at once.”

“Who rang off—you or Carroll?”

“He did. He banged down the receiver. I only hung up my end for long
enough to get the exchange again.”

This was something new. Frank Abbott looked up from his notes, Miss
Silver from her knitting, which had for the moment required a somewhat
closer attention than she usually gave it.

Lamb’s “What did you want the exchange for?” rang sharply.

“I wanted to get on to Carroll to tell him I was coming over.”

“Did you get him?”

“Yes.”

“He knew you were coming over?”

“Yes.”

“What did you say to him?”

“I said, ‘Look here, you can’t leave it like that. If you think you saw
anything you’ll have to tell me what it was. I’m coming over.’ ”

“What did he say?”

“He laughed, and I hung up.” The urge to explain drove him. “That’s why
I went round to the side of the house—I thought he was calling me—I
thought I heard my name. I came up to the front door. He was expecting
me—I thought perhaps he’d be there to let me in. But when I heard my
name——”

Miss Silver gave the slight cough with which she was wont to demand
attention.

“Mr. Oakley, are you sure you heard your name?”

He turned a ravaged face on her.

“I’m not sure about anything. I thought I heard it. That’s what took me
round to the side of the house. Don’t you see I must have had some
reason for going there?”

The Chief Inspector said without any expression at all,

“We don’t know what reason Mr. Carroll had for going there. But he did
go there. The person who murdered him would have that motive for
following or accompanying him.”

There was a pause during which, and not for the first time, Mr. Oakley
became convinced that he would have done better to hold his tongue. He
was dismissed to the company of the other guests assembled in the
drawing-room under the solemn gaze of a large local constable. If this
young man had had any thoughts to spare from his job he might have
reflected that the company presented some strange contrasts, but beyond
concluding that it was a rum start he was conscious of little else than
that this was a murder case, and that one of these people was probably a
murderer. That being so, it did not matter to him that Mr. Tote was
wearing blue serge trousers and a tweed overcoat; that Mrs. Tote had got
back into the tight black cloth dress which she had worn for dinner, a
garment rather ostentatiously smart in the hand but reduced by her to a
sort of limp dowdiness; or that the other elderly lady had come down in
a thick, old-fashioned grey dressing-gown, in spite of which she sat
there shivering and looking as if she would never be warm again. Of the
two young ladies, Miss Brown was in a tweed skirt and jumper, and Miss
Lane in a very fancy dressing-gown, poppy-red and as flimsy as they
come. Mr. Masterman was in a dressing-gown too, a very handsome garment
and quite new.

Well, there they all were, and there they sat, not one of them with a
word to throw to anyone else. And time went on.

In the study Lamb said,

“He was struck on the head with something that broke his skull. There’s
no sign of the weapon. It’s got to be somewhere. There’s no sign of it
in the house. I don’t say it couldn’t have been cleaned and put back
wherever it came from, because it could. There’s fire-irons, flat irons,
golf-clubs, and all manner of things, but getting things clean and
putting them back takes time, and there was precious little time. The
man could have been no more than just dead when Frank got here. Take it
any way you like, that telephone conversation was over by a quarter past
ten, because that’s when Pearson finished locking up and saw Carroll go
upstairs. At five-and-twenty past Miss Silver is ringing the Ram. Frank
gets going by the half hour, and bumps into Oakley six or seven minutes
later. Now if Oakley left the Mill House after his second telephone call
he wouldn’t get here before half past—not walking in the dark—I don’t
see how he could. If he killed Carroll he had about six minutes to do it
in and get back down the drive to where Frank met him. I don’t say it
couldn’t be done, because of course it could, but he’d got to meet
Carroll, who was quite probably looking out for him, induce him to go
round to the side of the house—why?—quarrel with him to the point of
murder, hit him over the head, and make off down the drive. If it was
Mr. Oakley, he may have brought the weapon with him, or he may have
picked up something on his way. A big stone would have done it, or a
brickbat, in which case he must have thrown it away as he ran, and we
shall find it when we can make a thorough search by daylight. He won’t,
of course, have been able to do anything about cleaning it up, so unless
there’s something very heavy in the way of rain we shall be able to
identify it all right. What puzzles me is why either Carroll or the
murderer should have been where the body was found.”

Miss Silver coughed in a tentative manner.

“Mr. Carroll’s bedroom windows look out that way.”

Lamb grunted.

“Yes, but they were shut and the curtains drawn.”

Her needles clicked above the pale pink vest.

“If someone had desired to attract Mr. Carroll’s attention, a handful of
gravel might have been thrown up at one of the closed windows. Mr.
Carroll would then have looked out. That he was persuaded to a meeting
with his murderer is certain. There is nothing improbable in the
supposition that he may have closed the window again and drawn the
curtains.”

Frank Abbott broke in with “How did Oakley know which was Carroll’s
window? He’d never been to the house until he dined here on Saturday
night, and he hadn’t been here since. That is to say, he’d never been
here by daylight. Yet we’re asked to believe that he made a bee line for
Carroll’s window and got it with the first shot. I can’t swallow it
myself.”

His Chief had a frown for this.

“A bit free with your opinions, aren’t you, my lad? I’ll ask for them
when I want them. I don’t say there isn’t a point there, but I’m quite
able to see it myself. And here’s an answer. Who says Oakley didn’t know
the house? Who says he’d only been here once? Who says he didn’t fix it
up with Carroll on the telephone to come round under his window?” He hit
his knee with the flat of his hand. “Oakley—Oakley—Oakley every time!”

Frank Abbott had an impenitent frown.

“I just can’t see why, sir.”

“What do you mean?”

“I can’t see why Oakley should have chosen such a place for a private
conversation. At that hour everyone would be upstairs. Five of the
upstair windows look down on to that court, two in each of the small
wings, and one in the middle of the side wall of the house, all double
casements. The two on the left belong to Carroll’s room, the two on the
right to the bedroom shared by Mr. and Mrs. Tote. The one in the end
wall lights the passage. Now, would Oakley, who had every reason to
desire privacy, choose a place like this for the sort of conversation he
was going to have with Carroll? To my thinking it’s all wrong. How could
he know that the Totes wouldn’t have their windows open? If they had,
they could have listened to everything that was said. Oakley was
obviously in a fever about his wife—he’d have wanted to talk privately
between four walls——”

This time Lamb hit the table.

“What makes you think he wanted to talk? If he’d got his mind made up
for the murder he wouldn’t come into the house—he’d get Carroll to come
out!”

“And take him round under the Totes’ windows? It doesn’t make sense.”

“Look here,” said Lamb—“suppose it was this way. He throws his gravel
up at the window—I’ll have that looked for—or makes some other signal,
and Carroll comes down. Well, suppose he gets out of one of those
groundfloor windows—no, that won’t do, because they were all fastened
on the inside, and Oakley couldn’t have fastened them.”

“Suppose it wasn’t Oakley, Chief.”

“Well?”

“Suppose it was someone in the house. He could have got back by the open
window and shut it after him, couldn’t he?”

Lamb’s colour had deepened.

“And what would he be doing, meeting Carroll out there? And why should
Carroll go outside to meet anyone who was living in the house? They
could pick any room they liked to talk in, couldn’t they? Everyone had
gone to bed. Now you look here—facts are what we’ve got to stick to.
Carroll left the house and went to that court. It’s no good asking why
he did it, or saying it’s not the sort of thing he would have done—he
did it. The same applies to Oakley. It’s no good saying, ‘Why should he
choose a place like that to meet Carroll?’ He went there, and he left
Carroll lying dead. There’s no evidence to show whether he found him
alive. He says no. That’ll be for a jury to decide—unless any of these
people we’ve got boxed up in the drawing-room has got something useful
to say. I’m going to start with Mrs. Tote.”

During the first part of this conversation Miss Silver had appeared very
much abstracted. Those rapid needles of hers slowed down and came to a
standstill, her hands resting upon the pale pink wool. Towards the end
she was giving her attention to what was being said, but with the air of
one who has something to say and is waiting for the first opportunity of
saying it. She now coughed in a very definite manner and said,

“Just a moment, Chief Inspector——”

It was almost as if he had forgotten she was there. Or perhaps the
surprise in his look was intended to remind her that her presence was so
very far from being official that the less said about it the better. He
would not have used the word sufferance, but it may have been in his
mind. It is certain that there was a graceful feminine deference in
voice and manner as she said,

“I wonder if you would be so very good as to allow me to put a question
to Mr. Pearson in your presence. It may prove to be of no importance at
all, in which case I shall have to apologize for taking up your time. Or
it may prove to be very important indeed.”

She had all his attention now. It had a quality of frowning displeasure.

“I’m seeing Mrs. Tote next—if you _don’t_ mind.”

Frank Abbott pressed his lips together. The Chief being sarcastic was
not the Chief at his best. The simile of the hippopotamus presented
itself to an irreverent mind. Miss Silver, on the contrary, evoked
admiration. She appeared to have withdrawn to so considerable a distance
that one might almost imagine her to have retreated into the Victorian
age. From this distance she smiled and addressed the Chief Inspector.

“Then you will perhaps permit me to be your messenger. I will inform
Mrs. Tote that you are ready to see her.”

When the door had closed behind her Lamb rustled the papers on the
blotting-pad. Frank’s eyes travelled to the fluff of pale pink wool
poised amongst its needles upon the arm of a just vacated chair. He had
an idea that Maudie had turned the tables, and that it was his respected
Chief who was feeling snubbed. He looked at the infant’s vest, the ball
of pink wool, and the knitting-needles, and was comfortably assured that
Maudie meant to come back. He allowed himself a very faint smile, and
had his head bitten off for an idle, insubordinate young pup.

“And I tell you what, my lad, if you don’t watch your step you’ll be
getting into trouble one of these days—sniggering and sneering when you
think I don’t see you! Answering back too, and in French as likely as
not! And perhaps just as well!”

Frank bowed to the storm in his most respectful manner. It would blow
itself out.




                                 XXXIII


Miss Silver did her errand. The hall was empty as she came through. If
there had been anyone there, she might have been observed to go over to
the hearth and, standing there, give some moments of close attention to
what remained of the fire. The logs of which it had been composed were
sunk together upon a deep bed of ash. They were not wholly consumed, but
so charred and eaten away as to be mere frail shells, almost as light
and insubstantial as the ash upon which they lay. They still looked like
logs, but at a touch they would crumble and fall apart—with one
exception. Tossed in upon the back of the burned-out fire was just such
a log as might have served for the sign of one of those old inns which
take their name from the Crooked Billet—a roughly L-shaped faggot,
heavy and gnarled. It lay tilted against a pile of banked-up ash.

Miss Silver bent forward and looked at it closely. The heat had died out
of the fire, but there was still a glow from the ash. She put out a hand
and drew it back again, after which she shook her head slightly, pursed
her lips, and proceeded to the drawing-room to summon Mrs. Tote.

They came back to the study together, and found the Chief Inspector
restored. He addressed Mrs. Tote in as genial a manner as he thought
proper.

“Come in and sit down. I’m sorry to keep you up so late, but I am sure
you see the necessity. I suppose you have no objection to Miss Silver
being present while I ask you a few questions? She is representing Miss
Brown.”

Mrs. Tote said, “Oh, no.”

She folded her hands in her lap, fixed her red-rimmed eyes upon him, and
thought with anguished longing of the days when a policeman used to be a
pleasant sight. If only anything didn’t come out about Albert—if only
she could be sure that there wasn’t anything to come out. Getting rich
quick in ways you oughtn’t to was bad enough, but there might be worse
than that. Murder would be worse. When the word came into her mind it
made her feel as if she was shrinking up smaller and smaller and
smaller, until presently she wouldn’t be there at all—and then she
wouldn’t see Allie again——

Lamb’s voice sounded like a great gong.

“Now, Mrs. Tote—about tonight. What time did you go upstairs?”

“Ten minutes to ten.”

“Rather early?”

“We’d all had enough of it.”

Something about the way she said this gave him quite a good idea of what
the evening had been like. He took her through it, getting her angle on
what had already been very accurately described by Miss Maud Silver. She
agreed that Mr. Carroll had had a good deal to drink—“Not drunk, of
course, but he’d had more than was good for him. He’d never have said
the things he said, nor behaved the way he did if he hadn’t—trying to
make everyone think he knew something—well, it isn’t the way anyone
would behave if they’d any sense in them. Downright foolish, I thought
it was, and likely to lead to trouble.”

“What do you mean by that?”

She was frightened. She oughtn’t to have said it. It was only what she
thought. You can’t just say what you think in a murder case—it isn’t
safe. She spoke quickly.

“No one likes to be hinted at. That’s what he was doing—hinting. I was
afraid one of the gentlemen would take it up and there would be words.”

Perhaps she oughtn’t to have said that either. She threw a nervous
glance at Miss Silver. There was something reassuring about the pink
wool and the steady click of the needles.

Lamb recalled her attention.

“Well, you went upstairs at ten minutes to ten. Did you go to bed at
once?”

“No.”

“What did you do?”

“We talked a bit.”

“About Mr. Carroll—about the scene downstairs?”

“Well, there was something said.”

Lamb laughed.

“Well, I suppose there would be! And I suppose your husband wasn’t best
pleased?”

“Nobody would be,” said Mrs. Tote.

“I don’t suppose they would. I’m not blaming him. And I suppose you were
trying to soothe him down?”

“Well, I was.”

“And then?”

“He went off to his dressing-room.”

“What time was that?”

“Twenty past ten.”

“Look at your watch?”

“Yes. I wanted to see if I’d write a line to my daughter. My husband
takes his time undressing.”

“Did you write to your daughter?”

“No—I thought I wouldn’t. I was feeling upset—I didn’t want to upset
her. I thought I would undress.”

Lamb leaned forward.

“Now, Mrs. Tote—your room has two windows looking on to the courtyard
where Mr. Carroll’s body was found. Were those windows shut or open?”

She said, “Shut,” looked round at Miss Silver, looked back, opened her
mouth as if she was going to say something, and then closed it again.

“Yes, Mrs. Tote?”

She sat there, twisting her hands in her lap, pressing her lips
together.

“Come, Mrs. Tote—something about those windows, isn’t there? Did you
open one of them—did you look out?”

Her fingers went on twisting. You couldn’t exactly say she nodded, but
there was some small reluctant movement of the head. Lamb looked at her
with a gravity which was impressive in its way.

“Mrs. Tote, if you heard anything or saw anything tonight, you know as
well as I do that you’ve got a duty. It isn’t pleasant giving evidence
which may lead to a man being hanged, but murder’s murder, and if you
know anything, it’s your duty to speak.”

Her red-rimmed eyes were sad but acquiescent.

“I opened the window.”

“Yes. Why?”

“I heard something.”

“What?”

“Something rattling—as if there was someone throwing stones up against
a window.”

“Your window?”

She shook her head.

“Oh, no—not mine. So I thought I’d look out.”

“Yes?”

“I put out my light and opened the window. I couldn’t see anything at
first, but I could hear someone moving down there in the court. And then
all at once Mr. Carroll opened his window just over the way and stood
there looking out with the lighted room behind him.”

“See him?”

“Oh, yes—quite plainly. He leaned out and said, ‘Who’s there?’ and
someone moved below and said, ‘Come along down—I want to speak to you.’
”

“Yes—go on.”

“Mr. Carroll said, ‘Is that you, Oakley?’ and the man in the court said,
‘It might be worth your while to keep a still tongue. Suppose you come
down and talk it over.’ ”

“What did Carroll say to that?”

“He laughed. It was all very quiet, you know. I’ve got very quick
hearing. It was just so I could hear it and no more. He laughed, and he
said, ‘I’ll come down and let you in by one of those groundfloor
windows’, and he shut his window and pulled the curtains over it.”

“What did you do?”

“I shut my window and went back into the room and put the light on. I
didn’t think it was any of my business, and I didn’t want them to know
I’d been listening.”

“Did you hear anything after that?”

“No——”

“Nothing that might have been a blow, or a fall?”

“I was moving about, you see—pouring out water and having a wash. You
don’t hear things when you’re washing——” There was something
hesitating about her manner.

“But Carroll said, ‘Is that you, Oakley?’ you’re sure about that?”

She had a shrinking look, but she said quite firmly,

“Yes, I’m sure about that. He said the name quite loud.”

“And you heard nothing more—nothing more at all after you shut your
window?”

She seemed distressed.

“I don’t know—it isn’t fair to say if you’re not sure.”

“Then you did hear something?”

Her fingers twisted.

“Not to say hear. I was washing. I thought there was something—like
someone calling.”

“What did you think when you heard it?”

“I thought it was Mr. Carroll calling out to Mr. Oakley. Just the
name—that’s what I thought it was—the way he said it before, only
louder. It must have been louder, or I wouldn’t have thought I heard
it—but the water was running—I couldn’t swear to anything.”

He let her go.

When the door had closed behind her he threw himself back in his chair.

“Well, that puts a noose round Oakley’s neck all right!”

Miss Silver coughed delicately,

“Mrs. Tote will not swear that the person she saw in the court was Mr.
Oakley.”

She sustained the full impact of a formidable frown.

“She heard Carroll address him as Oakley—she’ll swear to that.”

“That is not quite the same thing. Mr. Carroll may have been mistaken.
In fact the final point you so skilfully elicited from Mrs. Tote
confirms Mr. Oakley’s story. He explains his presence in the court by
saying that he thought someone was calling him and hastened in the
direction from which he believed the sound to come.”

Lamb gave a short annoyed laugh.

“And isn’t that just what he _had_ to say? Carroll has shouted his
name—anyone may have heard him. He’s got to put some kind of a gloss on
it, so he uses it to account for his going round to that side of the
house.”

With his frowning gaze upon Miss Silver, he was struck by the birdlike
quality of her regard, the head a little on one side, the eyes very
bright. He had seen her look like that before, and it meant something.
In fact, the bird with its eye on a highly promising worm.

“If I might just put that question to Mr. Pearson, Chief Inspector——”

“It won’t keep?”

“I believe not.”

He jerked round in his chair.

“Ring, Frank!”

Pearson came in all agog. His nerves had received a severe shock, but he
was being a good deal buoyed up by the fact that it was entirely due to
his zeal that the police had arrived in time to arrest the murderer upon
the very scene of his crime. That the circumstances of this case would
provide him with the most interesting reminiscences, he was already
aware. But this solace could not entirely prevent a nostalgic yearning
for a future in which two murders would have become merely the subject
of a tale. As he was subsequently to put it to his wife, “It’s all very
well when it’s a has-been as you might say, but very upsetting to the
nerves when it’s going on and you don’t know who’s going to be the next
corpse.” Since murders do not commonly take place in the presence of two
police officers, to say nothing of one of them being a Chief Inspector,
he found the study a very comfortable place, and would have been quite
willing to stay there all night.

Miss Silver’s words were therefore rather a disappointment.

“I only want to ask you one question, Mr. Pearson.”

He assumed the butler.

“Yes, madam?”

“When you came through the hall after locking up, did you put any wood
on the fire?”

If anyone had been watching Frank Abbott he would have been observed to
start.

“Oh, no, madam—I shouldn’t do that.”

“So I supposed. Did you notice the condition of the fire?”

“It is part of my duty to do so, as you might say. I wouldn’t go
upstairs and leave a big fire, or anything that might fall out.”

“And the fire was low?”

“Three or four bits lying flat and quite charred through.”

“And you have put no wood on since?”

“Oh, no, madam.”

“Or anyone else?”

“No one has had the opportunity—not since the alarm was given.”

Miss Silver turned a look of extreme gravity upon the Chief Inspector.

“When I came downstairs after the murder I noticed a heavy crooked log
at the back of the fire. It was not there when we all retired just
before ten o’clock. When you began to speak about the weapon used in
tonight’s murder, the fire as I had seen it when I went upstairs and as
I saw it when I came down again came very strongly to my thought. At
first it only seemed that there was some incongruity, but whilst you
were talking to Sergeant Abbott I became aware that this extra piece of
wood might very well be the missing weapon. I can only hope that the
smouldering ash has not been hot enough to destroy possible evidences.”

Before she had finished speaking Frank Abbott was at the door.




                                 XXXIV


Ten minutes later Lamb said, “Well, Miss Silver, we are very much
obliged to you. There’s no doubt we’ve got the weapon. Fortunately
Oakley must have been in too much of a hurry to do more than pitch that
log in on the back of the fire without waiting to see where it landed.
If it hadn’t rolled off what was left of the fire it would probably have
caught. As it is, there’s no mistake about what it was used for.”

“Oakley?” Miss Silver coughed in rather a definite manner. “Mr. Oakley,
Chief Inspector?”

He stared. Frank Abbott gave a slight start.

Miss Silver was knitting rapidly. She said,

“If that log was the weapon, Mr. Oakley was not the murderer. It is not
possible.”

She got a grunt and a curt “Your reasons?”

“When Mr. Pearson came to tell me of the telephone conversation he had
just overheard he mentioned that he had been shutting up the house.
Every window on the ground floor was shut and fastened, every door
locked and bolted—your men can confirm this. Even apart from the
question of how Mr. Oakley could have left the house completely shut up
after disposing of the weapon as you suggest, we are faced with another
problem. Mr. Carroll did leave the house. He left it after it had been
shut up for the night, since Pearson saw him going upstairs when he
himself had finished locking up. He must have come down again. He must
have opened some door or window in order to leave the house. Yet no door
or window was found to be open or unlatched. Someone inside the house
must have shut Mr. Carroll out. Is it not natural to suppose that it was
the murderer? Mr. Oakley could not have done it.”

There was a pause. Lamb’s surface irritation was all gone. His mind,
slower than Miss Silver’s but eminently competent and impartial, bent
itself to weighing the arguments she had used. He did not allow himself
to be hurried. He knew his own pace and kept to it. In the end he said,

“That’s right—it wasn’t Oakley—he couldn’t have done it.” He spoke as
to an equal, quite without rancour, and continued in the same tone. “Any
idea who did do it?”

She said gravely, “Someone who knew that Mr. Oakley was coming over.”

He whistled.

“How do you make that out?”

“I think it follows. I feel sure that the murderer knew of the telephone
conversation between Mr. Oakley and Mr. Carroll. I think it quite
apparent.”

Lamb’s eyes bulged.

“You’re not going to tell me you think it’s Pearson! I can’t swallow
that.”

Miss Silver smiled.

“I shall not ask you to do so. We know that Pearson was listening to the
first of the two conversations, the one which was terminated by Mr.
Carroll. He did not, however, hear the second, when Mr. Oakley rang up
to say that he was coming over. I considered it practically certain that
there would be a second extension, to Mr. Porlock’s bedroom, and I have
ascertained that this is the case. Now consider for a moment. Mr.
Carroll had been playing upon the nerves and upon the fears of the whole
company. How tightly strained must the murderer’s nerves have been—how
intensely he must have been wondering whether Mr. Carroll really had any
hold over him, and how he meant to use it. The party begins to separate
for the night. He sees Mr. Carroll enter the study and shut the door. He
may even hear him calling the exchange. Do you not think that he would
wonder whether Mr. Carroll was about to impart his information to the
police? If he could slip into Mr. Porlock’s room he could listen in on
the extension and find out. I suggest that this instrument should be
examined for fingerprints without delay. If they correspond—and I think
they will correspond—with the prints taken early this evening from the
mantelpiece in the hall and from the panelled side of the staircase,
there will be a good deal of support for my theory.”

“Whose prints do you expect to find?”

Miss Silver shook her head.

“Pray allow me to continue. The murderer hears Mr. Oakley say that he is
coming over. I think it possible, in fact probable, that he only reached
the extension in time to hear this second conversation. He would have
had to get upstairs and watch for an opportunity of penetrating into Mr.
Porlock’s room.”

Lamb gave another of his grunts, usually a sign of interest.

“Well, what did he do next? I suppose you can give us an eyewitness
account!”

Miss Silver continued to knit.

“I fear not. I can only tell you what I believe may have happened. He
would, of course, immediately realize that Mr. Oakley might be used as a
scapegoat. The circumstances of Mr. Porlock’s murder make it quite clear
that the murderer is quick-witted and resourceful. He would, I think,
see his chance of disposing of Mr. Carroll with very little risk to
himself. He would calculate how long it would take Mr. Oakley to get
here, and he would have to allow for his coming by car. The distance
between the two houses being a good deal less than a mile, the
difference between driving and walking would not be very great, since
the garage at the Mill House is at some little distance. I should
suppose that he would wait for not more than five minutes before
descending to the billiard-room, probably by the back stair.”

“The billiard-room?”

“I think so. Part of it lies under Mr. Carroll’s room, and it therefore
has windows giving upon the court where the body was found. These
windows, like the ones above, are all casements, and they are not very
far from the ground. Having climbed out, he would have to go as far as
the edge of the gravel sweep and provide himself with a handful of
pebbles. He throws these up at Mr. Carroll’s window. As the window below
was probably open at the time, it is possible that traces of gravel may
be found on the billiard-room floor.”

Lamb jerked round on his subordinate.

“Go and have a look! Get Hughes, and tell him to try the telephone
extension in Porlock’s room for prints—door-handles inside and
out—window-fastenings in the billiard-room. Tell him to look slippy.
He’d better start with the telephone. Let me see—where’s Jones? Put him
in the billiard-room till it’s been gone over. And tell Jackson no one’s
to leave the drawing-room till I come.”

Sergeant Abbott departed with regret. He would have preferred to stay
and hear whether Miss Silver had anything more to say. This being the
case, he did his errands in remarkably good time and returned with an
air of vicarious triumph to report two or three pieces of small gravel
just inside the billiard-room window.

Lamb grunted.

“Well, Miss Silver, it seems you’ve hit the nail on the head. Perhaps
you will tell us now whose prints you think we’re going to find.”

Her needles clicked, the pink ball revolved. The triumph had been all
Sergeant Abbott’s. She spoke gravely.

“I have been a very short time in this house. I have not, therefore, had
my usual opportunities of making contacts or coming to conclusions. But,
even on a very short acquaintance, there are things which cannot be
overlooked. At any time before nine o’clock——”

Lamb picked her up sharply.

“Nine o’clock?”

She inclined her head.

“Coffee was brought into the drawing-room just before nine o’clock. The
gentlemen joined us very shortly afterwards. Up till then, if I had been
asked which of the guests in the house was the one most likely to have
murdered Mr. Porlock, I should have been very much inclined to indicate
Mr. Carroll. He made a very disagreeable impression on me. I thought him
crooked and unscrupulous, and when it came to a question of motive he
seemed to have a stronger one than anyone else. Proof that he had been
concerned in treasonable correspondence with the enemy would certainly
have meant a serious term of imprisonment, if not the death penalty.
Even if the charge were not fully substantiated, he would be ruined
professionally.”

Lamb was leaning forward, heavily intent.

“And what happened after nine o’clock? He wasn’t murdered for another
hour and a half.”

“My suspicions became directed elsewhere. When Mr. Carroll began what he
was pleased to call his entertainment I naturally kept a very close
watch upon everyone. Let me remind you of my position. I was in the sofa
corner next to the fire and therefore very well placed for observation.
On my right, sharing the sofa, was Mrs. Tote. In prolongation of the end
of it, and rather out of the circle, was Miss Masterman. Mr. Carroll
stood in the space between her and the armchair occupied by Mr. Tote.
Miss Lane, Mr. Justin Leigh, and Dorinda Brown were on the sofa opposite
mine. Miss Brown had the coffee-table in front of her. Mr. Masterman was
standing up before the fire——”

“Yes, yes—we’ve had all that!”

Miss Silver continued to knit.

“As you will see, I was most advantageously placed. It is true that I
should have had to crane my head rather uncomfortably in order to watch
Mr. Masterman’s face, but as it was not necessary for me to do so, this
did not signify. Almost at once my attention became fixed upon Miss
Masterman.”

Frank Abbott moved so sharply as to suggest protest. The Chief Inspector
stiffened, his whole mass seeming to become more solid.

Miss Silver went on placidly.

“I had been a very short time in the house, when I realized that it
contained two very unhappy women. Both Mrs. Tote and Miss Masterman were
carrying a heavy load of anxiety and grief. In Mrs. Tote’s case, I
discovered that she was unhappy about her husband’s sudden rise to
wealth and her separation from her much loved only child. She spoke
quite frankly on these subjects, but I discerned a deep uneasiness as to
the methods by which so large a fortune had been made. I thought that
she was not quite sure whether there had been a step farther—into
crime. I did not myself consider Mr. Tote very seriously. I think he
probably went upstairs after his interview with Mr. Porlock and talked
violently to his wife about what he would like to do to him. She made a
half-admission to this effect. I did not think that the man who had
planned to murder Mr. Porlock would have been so foolish as to threaten
him, or to advertise his bad temper as Mr. Tote did on that Saturday
evening. I therefore set the Totes on one side. Miss Masterman was
unhappy in quite a different way. When I first saw her she seemed to be
living within herself—there seemed to be no contact with the outer
world. She looked strained and ill, and I received the impression that
she was waiting for something. After I had seen and talked with Sergeant
Abbott I thought her frame of mind consistent with the supposition that
she and her brother had inherited money to which she felt they had no
claim. She seemed quite sunk into herself, quite abstracted, as if even
a murder could not disturb what had became a habit of thought. When we
came into the drawing-room after dinner she drew away from the circle
about the fire and took up a newspaper, which screened her face. I do
not think she was reading. I watched her, and she never turned a page.
But when Mr. Carroll began his so-called entertainment she was, I think,
startled out of her apathy. He had a very vivid and dramatic
manner—everyone was watching him. I watched Miss Masterman. She did not
lay the newspaper down, but she lowered it a little. She did not look at
Mr. Carroll. Her right hand tightened on the paper so hard that it tore.
She did not notice that I was looking at her. Her attention was wholly
fixed upon something else. I followed the direction of her eyes and saw
that she was looking at her brother. He had set his coffee-cup down upon
the mantelpiece—I was in time to see him do so. As I have already
remarked, I could not see his face without making an effort, but it was
quite easy to see his hand setting down the coffee-cup—quite easy and,
I thought, quite sufficient. Mr. Carroll had been addressing a series of
highly provocative remarks to Mr. Tote. I did not take them very
seriously. He was, in my opinion, merely baiting the person most likely
to respond. After I had intervened with some light remark Mr. Carroll
turned his attention to Mr. Masterman. He said much less to him than he
had done to Mr. Tote, and there was much less apparent reaction, yet it
was at this moment that Miss Masterman’s attention and my own became
engaged. Currents flowing beneath the surface are sometimes very
strongly felt. Miss Masterman felt something which roused her. I was
myself aware of a sudden extreme tension. It might have been difficult
to trace this tension to its source if it had not been for one thing, a
slight but curious physical reaction. The hand with which Mr. Masterman
put down his coffee-cup was perfectly steady. It was his left hand. The
cup was put down without the slightest jar. The right hand, which was
hanging by his side, was steady too. But both thumbs twitched
uncontrollably. It was one of those involuntary movements of which a
person may be hardly aware. I am quite sure that Mr. Masterman was not
aware of the twitching until he looked down and saw it. He showed great
presence of mind, sliding one hand down into his pocket, and putting the
other behind him as if spreading it to the fire. It was all very
smoothly and naturally done, but instead of allaying my suspicions it
heightened them. I found myself believing that Miss Masterman had seen
what I had seen, and that she placed the same construction on it. In
these circumstances, I thought it probable that she would seek an
interview with her brother. I do not know if you remember that her room
is opposite mine. The gallery which runs round three sides of the hall
gives access to two distinct bedroom wings. Miss Brown, Miss Masterman,
and I have rooms in the right wing on this side of the house. The room
used by Mr. Porlock is in the left wing, on the same side as the
drawing-room and billiard-room, as are also the rooms occupied by the
Totes, Mr. Carroll, and Mr. Masterman. I did not undress. I waited with
my door a little ajar to see whether Miss Masterman would leave her room
and go round the gallery to the other wing. She did so almost
immediately. By going to the end of the passage I could see that she
went as far as Mr. Masterman’s door. She knocked on it and waited.”

Lamb said, “The two passages are directly opposite one another. You were
looking right across the hall into the passage which runs over the
drawing-room. I suppose it was lighted?”

“There was a light at the end, opposite Mr. Carroll’s room. I could see
the whole of the passage. Miss Masterman knocked again, then she turned
the handle and went in. She left the door open behind her. I went to the
end of my own passage and turned out the light so that I could continue
to watch without being seen. I had hardly done this before Miss
Masterman came out again, still leaving the door open. She stood there
in a very undecided manner, and I formed the opinion that Mr. Masterman
was not in his room. After a little while she went back into the room,
coming to the door every now and then and looking out. It was obvious
that she intended to wait for her brother’s return. There did not then
seem to be any reason for me to continue my watch. I went back to my
room, and a few minutes later Pearson came to report Mr. Carroll’s
telephone conversation with Mr. Oakley. I did not see Miss Masterman
again till after the alarm had been given, when she came out of her room
in her dressing-gown.”

“You think she may have seen something?”

Miss Silver coughed.

“I think she must have done so. Consider, Chief Inspector. She was there
in her brother’s room, watching for him and very much on the alert. The
door of the room was open. If anyone came out of Mr. Porlock’s room, she
could scarcely avoid knowing who it was. A back stair comes up between
Mr. Masterman’s room and that occupied by Mr. Carroll. If Mr. Masterman
went down that stair, she must have seen him go. If Mr. Carroll used it,
she probably saw him too. She was, in my opinion, almost at
breaking-point after a long period of strain. She was desperately
anxious to see her brother—perhaps desperately hoping that he would be
able to reassure her. In these circumstances, do you think that anything
would escape her?”

Lamb grunted.

“What’s she doing now?”

“When I went in to fetch Mrs. Tote she was sitting shivering by the
fire. The room is very hot and she is warmly dressed, but she cannot
stop shivering. If you question her, I think she will break down. The
man is her brother, but he has murdered two men who stood in his way.
When you come to enquire into the death of the old cousin from whom he
inherited, it may be found that there is a third murder on his
conscience. Miss Masterman’s trouble lies deep and is of long standing.
She may have suspected what she did not dare to let herself believe.
Now, I think, she knows, and if she knows she must speak, for everyone’s
sake—even for her own. If Mr. Masterman suspected her knowledge, I
believe that she would be in great danger. The man is a killer. He is
crafty and skilful. No one who threatens his safety is safe. I believe
that you will find his fingerprints on the telephone extension and on
the billiard-room window below. I believe that they will correspond with
those taken in the hall from the mantelpiece and staircase.”

Frank Abbott said, “She was right about those, sir. Hughes told me just
now—they’re Masterman’s.”

Lamb turned a stolid gaze in his direction.

“And they don’t prove a thing,” he said.




                                  XXXV


The Chief Inspector shifted his gaze to Miss Silver, who continued to
knit. After a moment he repeated his last remark.

“They don’t prove a thing, and you know it. Anyone staying in the house
could have left those prints without having anything more to do with the
murder than you—or me. Think of trying them on a jury—” he gave a
short bark of laughter—“Well, I see myself! I’ll go a step further. Say
we find his prints on the extension in Porlock’s room—what does it
prove? That he went in there and put through a call. Most likely
everyone in the house telephoned some time today or yesterday. Masterman
will say he used the nearest instrument. Say we find his prints on the
billiard-room window—by all accounts he’s spent most of his time in
that room since he came—he’ll say he opened the window to get a breath
of air.”

Frank Abbott said, “It accumulates—doesn’t it, Chief? Even a jury might
begin to think that there was rather too much Masterman.”

The gaze came back to him and became a repressive stare.

“If you’re going to count on a jury thinking, you’ll be heading for
trouble. I’ve told you before, and I suppose I shall have to tell you
again, that what a jury wants is facts—plain solid facts, with plain
solid witnesses to swear to them. Juries don’t want to think, because
they know just as well as you and me that they’re liable to think wrong.
They don’t want to wake up in the night and wonder whether they were
right or wrong when they voted guilty in a murder case—it’s the sort of
thing that gets a man down. Juries want facts, so they can go home and
say, ‘Well, he did it all right—there’s no doubt about that’.” He
pushed back his chair. “Now what I’m going to do is this. There’s
evidence enough against Oakley to justify taking him down to the station
and charging him——”

“But, Chief, you said he couldn’t have done it.”

Lamb got to his feet.

“Never you mind what I said—I’m saying different now.”

Afterwards Frank Abbott was to wonder how much difference there had
really been. Lamb could be deep when he liked. Frank came to the
conclusion that he might, in retrospect, regard his Chief and Maudie as
two minds with but a single thought.

Meanwhile the Chief Inspector was staring at Miss Silver, who responded
with a faint, intelligent smile.

“It is considered a woman’s prerogative to change her mind, but I have
never been able to see why a gentleman should not have the same
privilege.”

She was putting away her knitting as she spoke, in the flowered chintz
bag which had been a birthday gift from her niece Ethel. Ignoring Frank
Abbott’s raised eyebrow, she followed the Chief Inspector from the room
and across the hall.

In the drawing-room there was one of those silences. It must have been a
quarter of an hour since anyone had spoken. Mr. Tote was in the armchair
which he had occupied after dinner. He had a newspaper across his knees,
but it was a long time since he had looked at it. Moira and Dorinda were
on the sofa to the right of the fire, with Justin half sitting, half
leaning, on the end next to Dorinda. On the opposite sofa Miss Masterman
was in the place formerly occupied by Miss Silver, her thick duffle
dressing-gown clutched about her. She held it to her in a strained
clasp, as if to steady herself against a strong recurrent shudder.

In the other corner Mrs. Tote leaned back with her eyes shut. There was
no colour in her face except in the reddened eyelids. She kept thinking
of Mrs. Oakley screaming out about Glen. It wouldn’t be hard to break
her. If the police arrested Mr. Oakley and he was tried and hanged,
she’d break all to bits—“And I’d have to stand up and swear to what I
heard.” It was worse than the worst bad dream she had ever had. She kept
her eyes tight shut so as not to look at Martin Oakley, who walked
continually to and fro in the room like a creature in a cage.

Mr. Masterman was in the chair where his sister had sat after dinner
shielding her face and thinking her thoughts. He sat easily and smoked
one cigarette after another but without haste.

Moira Lane was smoking too. A little pile of cigarette stubs lay in the
ash-tray balanced beside her on the padded sofa arm. Her colour was
bright and high. Dorinda was very pale. She leaned into the corner, and
was glad when Justin dropped his hand to her shoulder and left it there.
It was warm, and it felt strong.

Police Constable Jackson, on a stiff upright chair by the door, was
thinking about his sweet peas. He had sown them in the autumn in a sunk
trench and they were all of four inches high, very hearty and promising.
He was going to train each plant up a single string, and he aimed at
taking a prize at the flower-show in July. Five on a stem you got them
that way—great strong stalks as thick as whipcord and twelve to
fourteen inches long—whacking great flowers too. His imagination toyed
with a gargantuan growth.

It was when he was wondering what the record number of flowers to a stem
might be that the door opened and Chief Inspector Lamb came in followed
by the little lady who had fetched Mrs. Tote, and by Sergeant Abbott who
you could pick out anywhere for a Londoner and la-di-da at that. Pretty
well see your face in his hair, you could, and a pretty penny it must
run him in for hair-oil—posh stuff too.... His thoughts broke off. He
got to his feet automatically as the Chief Inspector came in.

Everyone had started to attention. Mrs. Tote had opened her eyes. Mr.
Oakley had just reached the far end of the room and turned. He stood
where he was like a stock. Everyone waited.

Lamb walked straight across the room and tapped Martin Oakley on the
shoulder.

“I must ask you to accompany me to the station. I have a witness to the
fact that subsequent to your telephone conversation with Mr. Carroll, in
the course of which you said you were coming over to see him, someone
came into the courtyard and threw gravel up at Carroll’s bedroom window.
He opened it and called out, ‘Is that you, Oakley?’ The reply was, ‘It
might be worth your while to keep a still tongue. Suppose you come down
and talk it over.’ You can make a statement if you like, but I’m warning
you that anything you say will be taken down and may be used in
evidence.”

Martin Oakley stared at him. In the past three days he had become a
haggard caricature of his former self. He stared, and said, “Are you
arresting me? My God—you can’t! I didn’t do it! It will kill my wife!”

With everyone else in the room Miss Masterman had turned and was looking
at the two men, leaning with her right arm upon the back of the sofa,
clutching at the neck of her dressing-gown with her other hand. At the
word _arrest_ Miss Silver saw her start. When Martin Oakley said, ‘It
will kill my wife!’ she said something under her breath and stood up,
jerking herself to her feet all in one piece like a figure made of wood.

Miss Silver thought that the murmured words were “Oh, _no_—I can’t!” If
this was so, she repeated them—before Lamb had time to speak, and this
time in so loud and harsh a voice as to divert everyone’s attention to
herself.

“Oh, no! Oh no! I can’t!”

She had taken a step forward, the arm which had lain along the back of
the sofa outstretched as if she were feeling her way in the dark.

Jeffrey Masterman said, “She’s ill!”

He got to his feet, but before he could take a forward step there was
someone in his way—Frank Abbott, with a hand on his arm and a quiet,
drawled “Do you think so?”

Miss Masterman walked past them. She looked once at her brother and
said,

“It’s no good.”

If he made a movement, the hand on his arm checked it. He said,

“She’s always been a bit unbalanced, you know. I’ve been afraid of this
for years. You’d better let me get her up to her room quietly.”

No one took any notice. It came home to him then that he was separated
from the people round him—not as yet by bolts and bars, by prison
walls, or by the sentence of the law, but by the intangible barriers
which have separated the murderer from his kind ever since the mark was
set on Cain. Nobody listened to him or regarded his words. Only Jackson,
catching Sergeant Abbott’s eye, moved up on his other side.

Miss Masterman came to a standstill midway between the fireplace and the
window. In that harsh, strained voice she spoke to Lamb.

“You mustn’t arrest him! He didn’t do it!”

He seemed very solid and safe, standing there. Law and order. Thou shalt
not kill. All the barriers that have been built up through slow ages to
keep out the unnamable things of the jungle. If you let them in, too
many people pay the price. She heard him say, “Do you want to make a
statement, Miss Masterman?” Her breath lifted in a long sigh. She said,

“Yes——”




                                 XXXVI


Agnes Masterman’s statement:

“I am making this statement because there is nothing else I can do. Mr.
Porlock and Mr. Carroll were bad men. Perhaps they deserved to die—I
don’t know. My old cousin never did anyone any harm. You can’t kill
people just because they are bad, or because they are in your way. You
can’t let innocent people suffer. I can’t let Mr. Oakley be arrested,
because I know that he is innocent. There are things you can do, and
things you can’t. I can’t let him be arrested.

We went upstairs at about ten minutes to ten. I didn’t know what to do.
I had to talk to my brother, but I was afraid—I was very much afraid. I
had been thinking about the money—my old cousin’s money. She didn’t
mean us to have it—at least she didn’t mean Jeffrey to have it—and she
made another will, but he kept it back. I ought to have gone to the
lawyer at once, and all the time I couldn’t be sure whether he had
frightened her—or something worse. She was old and frail, and very
easily frightened. I couldn’t get it out of my head. I don’t know how
Mr. Porlock got to know anything about it, but he did. He made us come
down here because he wanted to get money out of Jeffrey. When he was
stabbed like that I was afraid, but I didn’t think it was Jeffrey. I
thought it was Mr. Carroll. I think most of us did. But Jeffrey said he
thought it was Mr. Tote. He really did make me feel that he hadn’t
anything to do with it himself. And he gave in about the money and said
he would produce the will. He told me she had left fifty thousand to me,
and I said he could have it. I thought I would make sure that he didn’t
change his mind, so I wrote to the lawyer and said we had found a later
will, and I walked down to the village and posted the letter on Sunday
evening. After that I didn’t feel I minded about anything else. I was
just waiting for the answer.

Then tonight something happened. It was like waking up, only instead of
waking out of a nightmare it was like waking into one. It happened when
Mr. Carroll was talking. I think he was bad and cruel. He was trying to
make us believe that he knew who had murdered Mr. Porlock. He kept
hinting that he had seen something when the lights came on. I don’t know
whether he really did or not. I looked across at Jeffrey, and I saw his
thumbs twitching. That was when I woke up. He had done it all his life
when he was very much afraid. My father was very severe with him. I’ve
seen his thumbs jerk like that when he went in to be caned. I saw them
jerk and twitch when my old cousin died. He doesn’t know it’s happening.
When I looked across and saw it this evening I knew what it meant. I
couldn’t help knowing. I had to talk to him and tell him that I knew,
but I was very much afraid.

As we came through the hall, Mr. Carroll said, ‘I’ve got a call to put
through’. He went into the study. Jeffrey looked dreadful. He left me
and went upstairs. The others had gone already. I went to my room, but I
felt I had to speak to him. I came out again and went round the gallery
and down the other passage to his room, but he wasn’t there. I thought
perhaps he had gone to the bathroom, and I waited. I left the door half
open. Presently I heard a door open and I looked out. It was the door of
Mr. Porlock’s room, and Jeffrey was coming out of it. I didn’t want him
to see me watching him, so I drew back. He didn’t see me. He went past
his own room and down the back stairs. I waited a little, and then I
went down too. I thought perhaps it would be better if we had our talk
downstairs where no one could hear us and wonder why we were talking.
When I got down the billiard-room door was open and there was a cold
draught blowing. It was all dark, but I felt my way in, and the window
on the left was open. I stood there for quite a little time. I thought
something bad was happening, but I didn’t know what it was. I was afraid
to go on, and I was afraid to go back. Then all at once I heard
footsteps outside in the court, and a pattering sound. One or two
pebbles came in through the window. Then I heard Mr. Carroll open his
window upstairs. He called out, ‘Is that you, Oakley?’ and I wondered
what Mr. Oakley was doing there. I went behind a curtain and looked out.
I could just see someone in the middle of the court. He said, ‘It might
be worth your while to keep a still tongue. Suppose you come down and
talk it over.’

As soon as he spoke I knew that it was Jeffrey. He was talking in a sort
of whispering way, but you can’t mistake your own brother’s voice. I
stood behind the curtain. Mr. Carroll came down, feeling his way like I
had done. He climbed out of the window and went to where Jeffrey was.
Jeffrey said very quick, ‘What’s that behind you?’ Mr. Carroll turned
round, and Jeffrey hit him. I couldn’t see what he had in his hand. He
hit him, and Mr. Carroll fell down. He called out Mr. Oakley’s name and
he fell down. After that he didn’t make a sound and he didn’t move.
Jeffrey came running to the window and got in. He shut it, and he drew
the curtain over it, all in the dark. I thought he would touch me, and
then he would kill me too, but he just pulled the curtain and went out
of the door and along the passage to the hall. I don’t know why he went
there, because he came back almost at once. I heard him go up the back
stairs. I didn’t move for a long time. I think I fainted, because when I
began to think again I was half sitting, half kneeling on the
window-seat and there was someone out in the court with a torch in his
hand. I went along the passage to the hall and upstairs to my room. I
took off my dress and put on my dressing-gown because it was warm—but I
can’t get warm.”




                                 XXXVII


The inquest was over. Verdict, wilful murder by Jeffrey Masterman.
Dispersal of the guests at the Grange. Miss Masterman to a nursing-home.
The Totes to the expensive and uncomfortable house in which she always
felt a stranger. Moira Lane to the three-roomed flat which she shared
with a friend. Miss Silver would stay to keep Dorinda company until
after the funeral, when she too would return to town.

It was Dorinda’s destination which was in doubt. She could return to the
Heather Club and look for another job. But on the other hand why should
she? Two murders and a legacy which she had no intention of keeping
didn’t really interfere with the fact that she was Mrs. Oakley’s
secretary. She put the point to Moira Lane, and Moira blew a smoke-ring
and said,

“Too right.” Then she laughed and said, “Ask Justin!”

Dorinda asked him. At least that is not quite the way to put it. She
just said of course there wasn’t any reason why she shouldn’t go back to
the Oakleys, and he said, “What a mind!” and walked out of the room. He
didn’t slam the door, because Pearson was coming in with the tea-tray,
but Dorinda got the impression that if it hadn’t been for that, he might
have banged it quite hard.

After tea she walked up to the Mill House and was ushered by Doris into
the pink boudoir, where the Oakleys had been having tea. Doris took the
tray. Martin Oakley shook hands and edged out of the room. She was left
with Linnet, in one of her rose-coloured negligées, reclining on the
sofa propped up with pink and blue cushions. Dorinda thought she
resembled a Dresden china figure, a little the worse for wear but
obviously cheering up. The stamp of tragedy, so ill-suited to her type,
was gone. The shadow under the forget-me-not blue eyes no longer
suggested a bruise. Some slight natural colour was evident beneath a
delicate artificial tint. She was affectionate to the point of warmth.
She held Dorinda’s hand for quite a long time whilst she gazed at her
with swimming eyes and said how dreadful it had all been.

Dorinda agreed, and came straight to the point.

“I could come back any day now——”

It was at this moment that her hand was released. A lace-bordered
handkerchief came into play. Between dabs Mrs. Oakley murmured that it
was all so difficult.

“You don’t want me to come?”

There were more dabs.

“Oh, it isn’t that——”

“Won’t you tell me what it is?”

It took quite a long time. Dorinda was reminded of trying to catch a
bird with a damaged wing—just as you thought you had got it, it flapped
off and you had to start all over again. But in the end out it came.
There was a lot of “Martin thinks”, and “Painful associations”, and a
very fluttery bit about “the dead past”. But, in much plainer and more
brutal English than Linnet Oakley would permit herself, what it amounted
to was that Dorinda knew too much. There were little sobs, and little
gasps, and little dabs, but it all came down to that.

“Of course, we shall get married again at once, and nobody need ever
know. The Scotland Yard Inspector promised us that, unless it was
necessary for the case against the murderer. And it couldn’t be, could
it? So as Martin says, it’s just to go through the ceremony again, and
then we can forget all about it. I’m sure you’ll understand that. You
see, it’s been so dreadful, because I did think perhaps Martin had done
it—not Mr. Carroll, you know, but Glen. And Martin thought perhaps I
had, which was very, very stupid of him, because I shouldn’t have had
the strength, besides not being so dreadfully wicked. And you know,
there was a time when I was very, very fond of Glen—I really was—and I
couldn’t ever have done anything to hurt him. I can’t say that to
Martin, because he has a very, very jealous temperament—that was why I
was so frightened.”

She gave a last dab and reached for her powder compact.

“I mustn’t cry—it makes me look such a fright. And I really ought to be
thankful—the way it’s turned out, I mean it’s not being Martin. Because
if it had been——” The hand with the powder-puff drooped. The blue eyes
swam with tears again. A sobbing breath caught in her throat. “If you’ve
been in love with anyone and been married to him you can’t feel just the
same as if he was anyone else. And I _was_ in love with Glen—anyone
could have been. There was something about him, you know, though he
wasn’t even kind to me after all the money had gone. And he went away
and didn’t care whether I starved or not—and I very nearly did. But
there was something about him——”

Dorinda remembered Aunt Mary dying grimly and saying with a bitter tang
in her voice, “What’s the good of asking why? I was a fool—but there
was something about him.” There couldn’t be two more different women
anywhere in the world, but they had this one thing in common—neither of
them had known how to say no to the man who was Glen Porteous and
Gregory Porlock. She said in a calm, soothing voice,

“I wouldn’t go on thinking about it—and you’re making your eyes red.
You haven’t really told me whether you want me to come back to you. I
don’t think you do, but it’s better to get it quite clear, isn’t it?”

Mrs. Oakley dabbed with the powder-puff and said,

“Oh, _yes_.”

“You see, I must know, because of getting another job.”

Linnet stared.

“But Glen left you all his money.”

“There isn’t very much, and anyhow I _can’t_ keep it. All I want to know
is whether you want me—and I think you don’t.”

It seemed that she was right.

“Not because we don’t like you and all that, because we do. But you see,
_you know_, and we should always know that you knew, and I don’t think
we could bear it. So if you don’t _mind_——”

Dorinda came back to the Grange and informed Mr. Justin Leigh that she
was out of a job.

“I shall go back to the Heather Club and look about me. I’ve got a
month’s salary in hand, and as I shan’t have done a stroke of work for
it, it’s not too bad. In a way it’s a relief that the Oakleys don’t want
me back, because I think it would be nice to go where no one had ever
heard of Uncle Glen. It’s stupid of me, but I’ve rather got that
feeling.”

Mr. Leigh, extended full length in the easiest of the study chairs,
neither raised his head nor fully opened his eyes. He might have been
asleep, only Dorinda felt perfectly sure that he was not. After a short
lapse of time he murmured enquiringly,

“Declaration of Independence?”

She said with dignity,

“Miss Silver and I can go up to town after breakfast tomorrow.”

“Yes, I should have breakfast first. Never travel on an empty stomach.”

“I wasn’t going to. Now I’m going upstairs to pack.”

He opened his eyes enough to let her see that they were smiling.

“You don’t need six or seven hours to pack. Come and talk to me.”

“I don’t think I want to.”

“Think again. Think of all the things you’ll think about afterwards and
wish you’d said them to me. If you can’t think of them for yourself,
I’ll be noble and oblige.” The smile had spread to his lips. “Come
along, darling, and relax.” He reached out and pulled up another chair
until it touched his own. “I’ll say this for the late Gregory, he knew
how to pick a house with good chairs. And what have we been doing for
days, and days, and days? Sitting on the edge of them as taut as
bowstrings talking to policemen! No way to treat decent furniture. Come
along and tell me all about the new job.”

Dorinda weakened. She had a horrid conviction that she would always
weaken if Justin looked at her like that. But of course there wouldn’t
be a great many more opportunities, because they would both be going
back to work, and they wouldn’t be seeing nearly so much of each other.

She came and sat down in the chair, and the very first moment after she
had done it she knew just what a mistake it was. It is a great, great
deal easier to be proud and independent when you are standing up. Soft
well-sprung chairs are hideously undermining. Instead of being buoyed-up
with feeling how right it was to be self-supporting and independent, she
could only feel how dreadfully dull and flat it was going to be. And as
if that wasn’t enough, her mind filled with pictures and images which
she had been firmly resolved to banish. There was the moment in the hall
on Saturday night when Justin had put his arm round her and of course it
meant nothing at all because they were cousins and someone had just been
murdered. And there was the moment which really filled her with shame
when she had pressed her face into his coat and clung to him with all
her might. That was when the police were arresting Jeffrey Masterman and
he had broken away and taken a running jump at the end window. The
horrid sound of the struggle—men’s feet stamping and sliding on the
polished floor, the clamour of voices, the clatter of breaking glass,
came back like the sound-track of a film. Justin had pulled away from
her and gone to help. It made her feel hot all over to think that he had
had to push her away. That was why she mustn’t let go of herself now.

His hand came over the arm of the chair and touched her cheek.

“You’re not relaxing a bit—you’re all stiff and keyed-up. What’s the
matter?”

Dorinda said soberly, “I think I’m tired.”

She heard him laugh softly.

“I think you are. And of course that’s a magnificent reason for sitting
up as stiff as a board.”

“I get like that when I’m tired. Justin, please let me go!”

“In a minute. Move a bit so that I can get my arm round you.... That’s
better. Now listen! I’m thinking of getting married.”

She couldn’t help starting, but after that one uncontrollable movement
something poured into her—some flood of feeling which carried her right
away from all the things which had been troubling her. They didn’t seem
to matter any more—they were drowned and swept away. She didn’t know
what the feeling was. If it was pain, it wasn’t hurting yet. What it was
doing was to make her feel that nothing else mattered.

She turned so that she could look at him.

“Is it Moira Lane?”

“Would you like it to be?”

“If it made you happy——”

“It wouldn’t. Anyhow she wouldn’t have me as a gift.”

“How do you know?”

“I don’t think she’d care about taking someone else’s property.”

He spoke unconscious of incongruity, and, incongruous or not, it was the
truth. Moira had stolen a bracelet, but she wouldn’t take another girl’s
lover. Queer patchy sort of thing human nature.

Dorinda said, “Someone else?” And then, “Who is it, Justin?”

She was looking straight at him. His arm had slipped from her shoulders.
He took her hands and said,

“Don’t you think it would be a good thing? I’ve seen a flat that would
do. I’ve got furniture. Will it amuse you to help me choose carpets and
curtains? All my mother’s things are in store, but I expect they will
have perished. I’ll get a day off and we’ll go down and see if there are
any survivors.”

“Who are you going to marry?”

“I haven’t asked her yet, darling.”

“Why?”

“Just the feeling that I didn’t want to get it mixed up with policemen
and inquests and funerals.”

Dorinda said, “The funerals are over.”

“That’s what I was thinking. Are you going to marry me?”

“Do you want me to?”

“Oh, Dorinda!”

She saw that his eyes were wet. It did something to her. He was still
holding her hands. All of a sudden he jumped up, pulling her with him,
and put his arms round her. It wasn’t until he let go of her hands that
she knew how tight he had been holding them. They felt quite stiff and
numb. She set them against the rough stuff of his coat and held him off.
But she didn’t feel that the stuff was rough. She knew it was, but she
couldn’t feel anything because her hands were numb. She held him off,
and said what she had to say.

“I’m not the right person for you—I’ve always known that. I don’t know
enough about how things ought to be done. You ought to marry someone
like Moira. I thought you were going to marry her—I’ve thought so for a
long time.”

“Think again, my sweet. Think about saying yes. Did I tell you I loved
you? I do, you know. It’s been coming on for months. I thought you’d
understand when I gave you my mother’s brooch.”

Her eyes widened.

“I thought you were fond of me——”

He gave an odd shaky laugh.

“I’ve gone in off the deep end. Are you coming in too? _Dorinda_——”

She took her hands away and put up her face like a child.

“If you want me to.”




                                XXXVIII


After dinner that evening a party of four sat comfortably round the
study fire. Frank Abbott made the fourth. The Chief Inspector having
departed leaving him to tidy up, he had most thankfully accepted an
invitation to stay at the Grange. Tomorrow they would all have gone
their separate ways. Tonight they sat peacefully round the fire and
talked like friends. The sense of strain had gone from the house. Old
houses have seen many deaths, many births, many courtships, much joy and
sorrow, much good and evil. In more than three hundred years this house
had known them all. Gregory Porlock and Leonard Carroll had joined
themselves to the past. They were no more to the house now than Richard
Pomeroy who had stabbed a serving-man in 1650 and been hanged for it
under the Lord Protector, or than Isabel Scaife who married James
Pomeroy some fifty years later and threw herself out of a window of the
very room occupied by Mr. Carroll. For what reason was never clearly
known. She fell on the stones of the courtyard and was taken up dead.
Men looked askance at James Pomeroy, but he lived out his life, and it
was his son who was known as good Sir James and endowed a foundation to
provide twelve old men and twelve old women of the parish with a decent
lodging and wearing apparel, together with food sufficient for their
needs “for as long as they shall live, with decent Buriall afterwards”.

There were other stories, other minglings of good and bad—men who
thought little of their own lives, risking them in battle, throwing them
away to bring a wounded comrade safe; men who sinned and men who
suffered; men who did well and men who did ill; men who died riotously
abroad, or piously abed. The house had outlived them all. Gregory
Porlock and Leonard Carroll were neither here nor there. The house could
live them down.

The fire burned bright. The room was comfortable and warm. Miss Silver
had finished the vest she had been knitting and had begun another. An
inch of ribbing ruffled on the needles in a pale pink frill. She looked
at Justin and Dorinda with a benignant smile. Nothing pleased her better
than to see young people happy.

She turned her glance on Frank, and met one from him which was cool and
a little cynical.

“Well, revered preceptress, are you going to perpend?”

“My dear Frank! What do you want me to say?”

The cynical look changed to a smile.

“Anything you like.”

She smiled too, but only for a moment. She was grave again as she said,

“I shall not ask you to be indiscreet, but I assume that since Mr.
Masterman was brought up before the magistrates this morning on the
charge of having murdered Leonard Carroll, there does not seem to be
enough evidence to charge him with Gregory Porlock’s death, although it
must be clear to everyone that he committed both these crimes.”

Frank nodded.

“Those handprints you put us on to and the trace of luminous paint on
the edge of his dinner-jacket sleeve are the only things you can begin
to call evidence in the Porlock case, and counsel would make short work
of them. He could have put his hand on the mantelpiece for a dozen
innocent reasons. He could have touched the staircase panelling during
the charade. They all came down the stairs, turned at the newel, and
went through the spotlight towards the back of the hall. That
left-handed print on the panelling occurs just where he would have been
leaving the spotlight and passing into the dark again. Quite a natural
action to put out a hand and touch the wall.”

Miss Silver coughed.

“But in that case the hand would have been pointing towards the back of
the hall. The print was, I understand, very nearly upright, but with
some inclination in the other direction—in fact just as one would
expect to find it if, as I suggested, Mr. Masterman had been crossing
from the hearth in the dark with a hand out in front of him to let him
know when he reached the staircase. I expected a left-hand print,
because the right hand would be held ready to use the dagger.”

Frank nodded.

“Oh, that’s how it happened. But we couldn’t go into court with it. A
clever barrister would tear it to shreds. No, we’ve got him for
Carroll—I think that’s a cert. His prints on the telephone extension in
Porlock’s room and on the billiard-room door and window, _and_ Miss
Masterman’s statement——”

Dorinda said quickly, “I’m so dreadfully, dreadfully sorry for her.”

Miss Silver looked at her kindly.

“She had been through a terrible time. I think there is no doubt that
she has suspected her brother of causing their old cousin’s death. Not
necessarily by poison or actual violence. She was, I understand, in no
state to be frightened or shocked. I think Miss Masterman fears that she
was frightened and died of it. That is a terrible thing for her to have
had on her mind, quite apart from the suppression of the will, which did
not actually benefit her since she received the same amount under the
will which has now been produced. I cannot help wondering how long Miss
Masterman herself would have survived if her brother’s guilt had not
come to light. Suppose Mr. Oakley had been arrested. Suppose her to have
held her tongue—I do not think it possible that she could have
concealed her remorse and distress from her brother. And he must have
become aware of the danger he would be in should she break down, as she
did in fact break down. He had just killed two men—do you think he
would have hesitated to kill again? I think we should have had a very
convincing suicide. I feel sure that Miss Masterman saved her own life
when her conscience would not allow her to stand by and see an innocent
man arrested.”

Justin raised his eyebrows.

“I wonder whether she thinks it was worth saving.”

Miss Silver’s needles clicked with vigour.

“I must disagree with you there, Mr. Leigh. Life is always worth saving.
Miss Masterman is a conscientious woman. She has good religious
principles. She will have a large fortune. She can be encouraged to look
forward to the good she can do. There will be painful times for her to
go through, but I shall try to keep in touch with her. I believe that
she will come through and take up her life again as a trust for others.
I shall do my best to encourage her. You know, as Lord Tennyson says:

    ‘No life that breathes with human breath
    Has ever truly longed for death.’ ”

Justin restrained himself.

“An echo from the great Victorian Utopia, where the more articulate
portion of the population made believe that all was for the best in the
best of all possible worlds.”

Miss Silver coughed in a reproving manner.

“It was an age which produced great men and women. Pray do not forget
those who toiled tirelessly for the better social conditions which we
are beginning to see realized. But to return to Lord Tennyson’s
aphorism. I do not believe that faith and hope can be separated from
life, and where these linger, however faintly, they can be revived. A
real longing for death could only follow upon their complete
extinction.”

Frank’s bright, cool glance held a spark of unaffected admiration.
Maudie, so practical, so resolute, so intelligent, so inflexible in her
morality, so kindly, and so prim—in all these aspects she delighted
him. He blew her an impudent, affectionate kiss and said,

“You don’t know what a lot of uplift I get from being on a case with
you. My moral tone fairly shoots to the top of the thermometer. But go
on telling us. There’s quite a lot I want to know, and most of it will
never come out in court.” He turned to Justin. “Strictly off the record,
I don’t mind telling you something of a highly confidential nature.” He
dropped his voice to a whisper and said, “She knows everything.”

“My dear Frank!”

He nodded emphatically.

“Don’t take any notice of her. She was brought up modest—a Victorian
failing. You can take it from me that as far as she is concerned the
human race is glass-fronted. She looks right through the shop-window
into the back premises and detects the skeleton in the cupboard. So next
time you think of committing a crime you’d better give her a wide berth.
You have been warned. It is only the fact that I have a perfectly
blameless conscience that enables me to meet her eye.”

Miss Silver pulled at her pale pink ball.

“My dear Frank, I really do wish you would stop talking nonsense. Pray,
what is it that you wish me to tell you?”

“Well, I should very much like to know whether Carroll was bluffing—all
that talk of his about what he might have seen when the lights came on.
There’s no doubt that he was very advantageously placed. From the top of
those stairs—well, three steps from the top, which comes to very much
the same thing—he would be looking right down on all those people round
the hearth. If there was anything to see, he’d have seen it all right.
But was there anything? If there was, what was it?”

Miss Silver coughed in a gentle, thoughtful manner.

“I think that there was something. I have given some consideration to
what it may have been. There is no possibility that Mr. Carroll could
have seen the blow struck, or the removal of fingerprints from the
handle of the dagger. After hearing Mr. Porlock call out and fall, Mr.
Leigh had to push Miss Dorinda back against the wall and then feel his
way along it to the front door and turn on the lights. The murderer had
ample time to wipe the handle of the dagger and move from the vicinity
of the corpse. I think there is only one thing which Mr. Carroll could
have seen. In stabbing Mr. Porlock, the sleeve of Mr. Masterman’s
dinner-jacket came in contact with the luminous paint with which he had
marked his victim. He would not notice it until he had gained the
position where he intended to be found when the lights came on. But once
there, he might very naturally glance down at his hand and arm and see
in the darkness a faint glow from the smear of paint. To try and remove
the smear would be instinctive. If the lights went on whilst he was
rubbing the edge of his sleeve, this is what Mr. Carroll may have seen,
and I think he was too clever not to draw his own deductions. You will
remember that Mr. Masterman subsequently took the opportunity of
brushing against Miss Lane, who had some of the paint on her shoulder,
and that he then drew everyone’s attention to the fact that he had
stained his cuff. Now this stain was right on the edge of the cloth
sleeve and nowhere else. It would be very difficult to acquire a stain
of this sort just by brushing against a lady—so difficult that I cannot
believe it happened. Whereas it would, I think, be extremely difficult
for a man to stab some one up to the hilt in the middle of a luminous
patch without getting some of the paint on the edge of a shirt-cuff or
coat sleeve. I have asked everyone whether there was anything noticeable
about Mr. Masterman’s dinner-jacket. Four of them, including Mr. Leigh,
remarked that the sleeves were too long, practically hiding the
shirt-cuff. This would account for the smear being on the cloth.”

Justin Leigh said, “That’s very interesting, Miss Silver. But if Carroll
thought Masterman was the murderer, why didn’t he blackmail him instead
of going for Oakley?”

Miss Silver shook her head. There was some suggestion that a pupil was
not being quite as bright as she expected.

“Did Mr. Carroll strike you as a courageous person? He did not make at
all that impression upon me.”

Justin gave a half laugh.

“Oh, no.”

“I do not think that he would have approached anyone whom he knew to be
a murderer directly. He would certainly not have gone to meet Mr.
Masterman in that deserted courtyard. But Mr. Oakley was a different
matter. Like everyone else, Mr. Carroll had seen Mrs. Oakley on her
knees beside the dead man and heard her call him Glen. He could hardly
fail to guess at Mr. Oakley’s state of mind, or to suspect that he might
be terribly afraid of his wife having some part in the crime. He was
prepared to play upon these fears. He rang up, dropped his malicious
hint, and rang off again. When Mr. Oakley rang him up and said he was
coming over, Mr. Carroll must have felt confident of success. That his
purpose was blackmail is certain from the words overheard by Mrs. Tote
when Masterman, pretending to be Oakley, said, ‘It might be worth your
while to keep a still tongue. Come down and talk it over.’ Mr. Carroll
laughed and came. That was his moment of triumph. But the triumphing of
the wicked is short.”

Justin said, “Yes, you’re right—it would have been like that. Very
satisfying. It all fits in. Well, we’re all off tomorrow, but I hope it
isn’t goodbye. You’ll come and see us when we’re married?”

She smiled graciously.

“It will be a pleasure to which I shall look forward. It is always
delightful to look forward. As Lord Tennyson says,

    ‘How dull it is to pause, to make an end,
    To rust unburnished, not to shine in use!’ ”

There was a slightly awed silence. Dorinda produced rather a shy smile,
but Frank Abbott rose to the occasion. There was laughter in his voice,
but it was the laughter of real affection. He leaned over and kissed
Miss Silver’s hand, knitting-needles and all.

“Don’t worry,” he said. “Pure gold doesn’t rust.”

                                