“I always get what I want,” said Lucas Dale. He stood with his back to
the fire, a tall, well setup man in his easy forties, and smiled at his
guests.

In the chair beside the fire Mrs. Mickleham, the Vicar’s wife, was
balancing rather unhandily the glass of sherry which she had not liked
to refuse but did not really want to drink. She had the air of a hen
confronted by a worm of some unknown species. She was not exactly a
teetotaller, but she did not drink wine. Her expression became that of a
hen with grave moral scruples.

Next to her, but farther from the fire, a square, dumpy woman with
boot-button eyes and short grizzled hair. She wore the roughest of rough
tweeds, shoes with square heels and soles half an inch thick, and ribbed
hand-knitted stockings, all in a fierce shade of ginger. She was the
wife of the thickset man with a thatch of white hair who was on the far
side of the fire talking to the cheerful, rosy-faced Vicar. They were
Sir John and Lady Vere, and they owned between them as much of the
neighbourhood as did not belong by recent purchase to Lucas Dale.

Their daughter, Lydia Hammond, was sitting a little way off talking to
Susan Lenox. They made a pretty contrast—Lydia small, dark, vivaciously
pretty, with birdlike movements and rich carnation flush; and Susan with
her fair, pearly skin where the colour came and went so readily, her
dark blue eyes, and the hair like corn which is so ripe that it has
begun to turn brown. There was gold in it still when she moved and the
light caught the wave.

Lucas Dale was watching the gold. This was where Susan should be—here
in the home where she had grown up, and not in the little house down the
hill where she waited for a lover without a penny and nursed a fretful
ailing aunt. This was Susan’s place, in her drawing-room at King’s
Bourne, entertaining her guests, hostess to his host. But he would put
better clothes on her than those shabby old blue tweeds, and give her a
better ring, by heck, than the trumpery sapphire she had from Bill
Carrick.

Lucas Dale did not have to formulate these thoughts. They were always
present in his mind. When he looked at Susan as he was looking now, they
merely became more insistent, and his desire for her more clamorous.

He looked away.

Cathleen O’Hara was coming from the door which led by a short length of
passage to the library, a little, plain-faced thing with a shy charm for
those who loved her. She was Lucas Dale’s social secretary, and first
cousin to Susan Lenox. Like Susan she had grown up in this house. She
worked in it now, but she lived with her mother and Susan in the Little
House down the hill. She came up the room now with a key-ring dangling
from the little finger of her right hand, and between her two hands a
shallow drawer or tray of some dark wood. The tray was lined with black
velvet, and, disposed upon that flattering background, there were
pearls, and pearls, and pearls.

Cathy walked very carefully indeed. People always made her feel rather
nervous, and it would be quite dreadful if she were to knock against
anyone or drop the tray. It was a great responsibility to have the
handling of such valuable things. It frightened her to think how much
they must be worth. She hadn’t really liked having to take Mr. Dale’s
keys and get the pearls out of his safe, but she hadn’t liked to say so.
As she came into the room she heard him say in that very strong voice of
his, “I always get what I want.” Well, he had wanted money, and he had
wanted King’s Bourne, and he had wanted these pearls. If he wanted
anything he would get it. . . . Something looked out of her thoughts and
frightened her so much that she did very nearly drop the tray. But not
quite. She brought it carefully to Lucas Dale, and gave a small breath
of relief as he lifted it from her hands.

“And the keys, Mr. Dale——” She held them out.

Lucas Dale smiled. He was a big, dark man, very well shaved, very well
groomed. He wore a loose brown shooting-coat, not too new. He had well
kept hands, but the nails were square and ugly, and the three middle
fingers all of the same length. When he smiled he showed strong white
teeth. He said in the kind voice which didn’t frighten her,

“Keep them, Cathy. I shall want you to put the tray away when we’ve
finished.”

He set it down on a small walnut table. Lady Vere and Mrs. Mickleham
both leaned forward, the one intent, the other fluttering. It was Mrs.
Mickleham who said,

“Oh, Mr. Dale, what lovely pearls!”

Lucas Dale was looking at Susan. She hadn’t moved, or turned her head,
or stopped her talk. A rough, pleasurable anger possessed him. It was
that way, was it? “All right then, we’ll see.” He lifted his voice and
called across the room.

“Mrs. Hammond—don’t you like pearls? Come along and look at mine.”

He felt a dark amusement at the alacrity with which Lydia responded. She
jumped up, pulling Susan with her.

“Don’t give them all away till I come!” she cried, and came running.

Susan Lenox followed slowly.

Dale was holding up a lovely milky string of perfectly matched pearls,
and the Vicar was saying,

“Really, you know, they must be very valuable. I suppose you are well
covered by insurance? I shouldn’t care to have such valuable things in
the house myself.”

Lucas Dale laughed.

“I keep a loaded revolver, and take care that everyone knows it. Anyway
what’s the good of having a thing if you’re going to keep it shut up in
a bank? It might just as well be stolen and have done with it. As a
matter of fact it would be stolen. I should be letting my own fear of a
possible burglary rob me of my everyday enjoyment. Not that I look at
these pretty things every day by any means. In fact I don’t know when I
had them out last, or when I shall have them out again. Perhaps not for
months. But I like to feel I’ve got them under my hand.”

“Pearls ought to be worn,” said Lydia Hammond. She put out her hands
with a quick, darting movement, took them, and looped them about her
neck. They hung down over her honey-coloured jumper in two rows. Her
colour glowed and her dark eyes sparkled. “Oh, I must see how I look!”
she cried, and ran down the room to the tall Venice glass between the
two end windows.

Sir John watched her go indulgently, but Lady Vere stiffened a little.
“Lydia is so impulsive, and I’m sure neither her father nor I——” The
thought just stirred, and was gone again.

Lydia gazed ecstatically at her own reflection. This room and the pearls
suited each other. She could see the whole of it in the glass. The old
ivory panelling, with electric candles in gilt sconces lighting it. The
Adam mantelpiece. The dark polished floor with its beautiful Persian
rugs. The long windows, curtained in a deep lovely shade of blue. The
little group about the fire. “Mummy’s getting stouter—she ought to
slim. . . . Cathy is exactly like a mouse. I can’t think how she ever
plucked up enough spirit to take a secretarial course, but _what_ a good
thing she did. . . . Susan and Lucas Dale——Well, Bill Carrick or no
Bill Carrick, they make a very good-looking couple. And this is Susan’s
room. If he had furnished it for her—perhaps he did. . . . And she
ought to be wearing the pearls—perhaps she will. She’d be quite
breath-taking. Oh, bother Bill Carrick!”

Lydia’s reflection stopped pleasing her. She came running back and
pulled off the pearls as she came.

“Too much temptation, Mr. Dale. You’d better take them. But it does seem
a shame that they shouldn’t be worn.”

“Oh, I hope my wife will wear them some day,” said Lucas Dale.

Lydia had a way of saying the first thing that came into her head. She
did it now.

“Oh, _what_ a pity I’m married!”

Lady Vere said, “Lydia!” and Mrs. Mickleham said, “Lydia—_dear_!” Sir
John Vere chuckled, and Lucas Dale threw back his head and laughed.

Lydia laughed too.

“It isn’t fair to come dangling pearls like that at a poor sailor’s
wife. Freddy’s an angel, and he’d give me the world if he’d got it, but
he hasn’t and he never will have, so it’s Woolworths for me and for ever
and ever, amen.”

Mrs. Mickleham broke in eagerly.

“And they’re really wonderful, are they not?” (Dear Lydia, how
heedless—how very heedless! I don’t wonder Lady Vere looks vexed. And
what Mr. Dale can be _thinking_!) She felt extremely fluttered, but she
pressed on. “Do you know, with all these wonderful imitations, I am not
sure, Mr. Dale, that I would not rather be spared the anxiety of owning
valuable pearls.”

Sir John burst out laughing.

“I don’t believe it, Mrs. Mickleham. The woman isn’t born who can resist
pearls—and did you ever hear of Jenny Baxter who refused the man before
he axed her?”

Mrs. Mickleham looked down the long nose which so strongly resembled a
hen’s beak. Sir John might come of a very old family, but there were
times when she considered that he forgot himself. That remark was in
decidedly bad taste—like Lydia’s. But Lydia was only heedless. Everyone
knew that she was devoted to Freddy Hammond, but it was a pity to say
things like that, especially when he had to be away so much at sea.

Sir John stopped laughing and addressed his host.

“Seriously, Dale, I wonder you’re not afraid of having those things in
the house. They’re a temptation, that’s what they are—and that’s the
Vicar’s department. Hi, Vicar, you’ll have to preach him a sermon about
it next Sunday.” He only half dropped his voice before adding—“make a
nice change.”

All this time Cathleen O’Hara had stood silently by the table which held
the tray. Lydia pounced on her now.

“Come along, Cathy, let’s be tempted together. What’s your fancy? Me for
the black pearls. Oh, Mr. Dale—how divine!”

“I shall count them before you go, Mrs. Hammond, so take care.”

He still held the long string in his hand. He turned away with it now to
Susan Lenox, who was standing behind Cathy.

“Will you put them on for a minute? I’d like to see what they look like.
Mrs. Hammond is too dark for them really—pearls are for fair women. I’d
like very much to see them on you, if you would be so good.” Words and
voice were formal.

Susan had no excuse for refusing. She had a feeling that the whole scene
had been contrived for just this very end—to make her try on the
pearls. And Lydia had made it impossible for her to refuse. A glow of
anger stained her cheeks and brightened there as the thought went
through her mind, “He’ll think I’m blushing—they’ll all think so.” But
her voice was cool and detached as she said,

“Oh, certainly, if you want me to. But I’m one of the people whom Sir
John won’t believe in—I don’t really care for pearls.” She held them up
against her for a moment without fastening the clasp.

She became aware that they were all watching her—Mrs. Mickleham
nervously, Lady Vere with her shallow stare, Sir John prodigiously
amused, the Vicar kindly and unaware, Lydia’s eyes dancing with
mischief, Cathy with something scared about her, and Lucas Dale with the
smouldering look which made her come near to hating him. They could all
see how pale she turned.

She dropped her hands from her neck and gave him back the pearls.

“And I must say goodnight, Mr. Dale. Aunt Milly will be wanting me.”

Lydia jumped up from where she had been kneeling by the tray.

“I’ll walk down the hill with you, darling, and the parents can pick me
up when they go. Daddy hasn’t nearly finished drinking sherry yet, and
it’s so much cheaper for him not to drink his own these stony-broke
days. Goodbye, Mr. Dale. I simply daren’t stay near those pearls any
longer, but I call you to witness they’re all there, even the loose ones
which would be so frightfully easy to pinch. Here, you’d better count
them. If you go and lose them, I’m not going to have you say it’s me.
Freddy wouldn’t like it—his family are all fearfully respectable. Come
on—count them!”

Mrs. Mickleham said, “Lydia—_dear_!” Lucas Dale said, “It’s all right,
Mrs. Hammond, they’re all there. You can leave the room without a stain
on your character. And now, Cathy, I think you might put them away
again. They don’t come out more than once in a blue moon anyhow.”




                               CHAPTER II


The proper way to reach the Little House was down half a mile of drive
and along the road into Netherbourne village, but it was less than a
quarter of a mile as the crow flies, and no more even without wings, if
you went straight down past the three terraces and the tennis courts,
through the vegetable garden, to the orchard which ran right down to
Mrs. O’Hara’s fence.

Mrs. O’Hara had been Millicent Bourne—one of the beautiful Bourne
twins. She and her sister Laura were the talk of their first season. And
then the war came. Millicent married a penniless Irishman who was killed
in 1917, leaving her with a delicate baby and no income. Laura married
John Lenox. He was killed in 1916, and Laura died the following year.
Millicent O’Hara came back to her brother at King’s Bourne. Everyone
said that she would marry again, but she did not. She kept house very
inefficiently for James, who was twenty years older than his young
sister, and by degrees she lost her looks and her health and became a
rather tiresome invalid. James Bourne was a confirmed bachelor. He was
very glad to have poor Milly there, and to have her little girl and poor
Laura’s little girl. He became, in fact, extremely fond of the children,
but being a most amiable, indolent and inconsequent-minded man, it never
occurred to him to make any provision for them. When he died there was
really nothing left. The estate had paid death-duties twice during the
war, and everything that could be mortgaged was mortgaged. For the last
couple of years things had been kept going with borrowed money. Lucas
Dale stepped in and bought the place lock, stock and barrel. He was
English, though he had made his great fortune in America, and he meant
to settle in England and marry an English wife. He meant to marry Susan
Lenox.

Mrs. O’Hara moved into the Little House with Susan and Cathy. She
supposed they would get along somehow. There was about two hundred and
fifty pounds a year. They couldn’t afford a servant. One of the girls
could look after her and the house, and the other could be earning
something. Susan would have been the one to go out and earn, but it was
no use wasting a training on her if she was going to marry Bill Carrick,
so it was Cathy who went to stay with old Cousin Emma in London and took
a three months secretarial course, the enterprise being financed by the
sale of Mrs. O’Hara’s Brussels flounce. She wept over the sacrifice at
the time, and would probably never stop talking about it, because of
course Cathy ought to have the lace for her wedding dress, but on the
other hand they really couldn’t live on two hundred and fifty a year,
and how fortunate that Cathy should step straight into such an
unexceptionable post. Mrs. O’Hara quite brightened when she talked it
over with Mrs. Mickleham—“He treats her perfectly, like the nicest
uncle. And she comes back to all her meals.”

“But I thought—surely the Vicar was told—that Mr. Dale had a secretary
already. He has been superintending all the alterations. A Mr.
Phipson—yes, that’s it—Mr. Montague Phipson. Quite a pleasant little
man.”

“Oh, yes, but he’s the business secretary. Mr. Dale has a great many
business interests. He doesn’t want Cathy for that sort of thing. She is
to do the flowers and—well, all the sort of things she and Susan used
to do for my brother—only of course there will be far more entertaining
now. He came to see me about it and was quite charming.”

This was three months ago. Tonight Susan and Lydia took the garden way
to the Little House. They came out on to the first of the terraces and
saw the whole slope of the hill under a waning moon and a dappled sky,
and the lights in the village far below.

Susan stood for a moment and looked. She felt Lydia’s hand on her arm.

“I don’t know how you can bear it. It isn’t his—it’s yours. It will
always be yours.”

“But I don’t want it, Lydia—I never did. I’ve seen too much of trying
to keep up a big place on a small income—” her soft laugh broke in—“or
no income at all.”

“I didn’t mean that,” said Lydia—“I didn’t mean that at all. What about
having the income to match the place? Wouldn’t you like that?”

Susan laughed again.

“Bill wouldn’t. He wants to build everything we live in. He says what’s
the good of being an architect if you don’t. So we shall start in a
three-roomed cottage and work up.”

Lydia’s eyes sparkled in the moonlight. She said crisply,

“And _when_ do you start?”

They had been standing still, but Susan moved now. It was not until they
reached the next terrace that she answered Lydia’s question.

“It is so dreadfully hard for an architect to get a start. They mustn’t
advertise, and it’s uphill work getting known. The Maynards were awfully
pleased with the house he did for them. He proposed to me on the
strength of that. But he’s only had small jobs since then. People say
they’re going to build, and then building costs go up, or something like
that, and they don’t do it. If we had any capital, it would be
different, because then he could build to sell or let without waiting
for orders, and get known that way.”

“It sounds like waiting a long time,” said Lydia. She paused and added,
with the effect of flinging a dart, “_Are you going to wait?_”

Susan stopped at the top of the steps to the last terrace. The moonlight
stole all her colour, but it wasn’t the moonlight which made her look so
stern.

“What do you mean? Of course I’m going to wait.”

“Are you?” said Lydia. “Are you? _Are you, Susan?_ I wouldn’t if I were
you. Do you remember how Lolly Smith got engaged to a boy who had just
gone into the army, and he went out to India, and they went on being
engaged for years and years and years till she’d completely gone down
the drain, and then he married a girl of eighteen whom he’d known for a
month?”

“Lydia!”

“Well, suppose you both go on waiting. What a look-out! You’ll begin to
lose your looks, and either he’ll get plodding and dull and won’t care,
or else he’ll get worked up and nervy and feel that he’s spoiling your
life. You can take your pick of which you’d rather have on your hands,
but you can bet your life, whichever it is, it’ll be hell for you.”

“Lydia!”

“Oh, you don’t think so now. Look at me. I was crazy to marry Freddy—we
were crazy about each other. And what’s the good of it? I’m sitting at
home with the parents, and he’s in China. I can’t go out, and he can’t
come home. What’s the good of it?”

Susan laughed.

“You’d do it again tomorrow.”

Lydia stamped her foot.

“Because I’m a fool! And now you’re angry with me—Susan——”

Susan put out a hand and touched her.

“I’m not really. But you mustn’t say things about Bill.”

They went down the steps together and across the last terrace. As they
began to skirt the tennis courts, Lydia said in something just above a
whisper,

“It was seeing you at King’s Bourne again, and—and—the pearls. I
_wanted_ you to have them.”

Susan was so secure that she could let a laugh come into her voice.

“It’s no good, Lyddy.”

“You _might_——” Lydia was breathless with her own daring.

“No.”

“What’s the good of saying no? He’s in love with you—he’d give you
anything in the world. He only had those pearls out because he wanted to
see them on you.” She broke into sudden laughter. “And I ran off with
them! You bet he hated me quite a lot for that. But you can’t say he
hasn’t got good manners. I piled it on on purpose just to see how he’d
react, and he bore up nobly. Oh, Susan, _think_ of lifting about half an
eyelash and having King’s Bourne, and a millionaire, and those divine
pearls all put down at your feet just waiting for you to pick them up.”

“I should find them too heavy. And I’d much rather not think about it,
if you don’t mind. And, Lyddy, if you don’t want to make me angry,
you’ll stop. Up to now I’ve laughed, but I’m not going to go on
laughing.”

“Well, I wouldn’t like to make you really angry, darling. You know, the
only time I did you nearly scared me dead. I believe if you were really
roused you might do something rather frightful.”

They passed the tennis courts and took the orchard path.

“You do talk a lot of nonsense, Lyddy,” said Susan.




                              CHAPTER III


Lydia came in and prattled to Mrs. O’Hara about Freddy, about the
climate of China and how dreadful the war was, about Lucas Dale and the
drawing-room curtains at King’s Bourne, and about the pearls.

“Rows and rows and rows of them—pink ones, and black ones, and white
ones—enough to undermine any woman. Wouldn’t it be too marvellous if he
put them into a lucky bag and let us all have a dip?”

“I had quite a nice little string when I was a girl,” said Mrs. O’Hara
in her plaintive voice.

She lay propped up with cushions on the comfortable deep sofa which she
had brought from her own room at King’s Bourne. When Lucas Dale bought
the whole place as it stood he had begged Mrs. O’Hara to take with her
to the Little House whatever she needed in the way of furniture. She had
protested gracefully and then interpreted her needs with the utmost
liberality. The room was full, and overfull. The sofa was too large for
it. There were too many chairs, too many knick-knacks, and far too much
china. It was obvious that the furnishings of a much larger room or
rooms had been crammed into the small space. The walls were crowded too.
A dark portrait over the mantelpiece was jostled by sketches which
grandmamma had brought from Venice. A reproduction in red of Titian’s
Assumption hung side by side with The Soul’s Awakening in sepia. On
another wall an enlargement of her own wedding group was surrounded by
some really lovely Chinese paintings of butterflies, birds and flowers.

Mrs. O’Hara herself resembled a faded watercolour. Her hair had not
turned grey. It had become dull like her skin, her lips, her eyes. She
was not at all unhappy, because she loved Cathy and Susan, and derived a
great deal of pleasure from the precarious condition of her health. Her
drops, her tonics, her pills, her little bottle of tablets, the
sympathetic visits of Dr. Matthews who had been an early admirer—all
these stood between her and the actual drabness of her life. She played
with them as a girl plays with her dolls. She had seen herself as the
admired young girl, the lovely bride, the pathetic widow. Now she was
the brave invalid, pale, fragile, interesting. And of course if you are
an invalid you do escape life’s duller duties—taking the dog for a walk
when you would rather sit by the fire, visiting
the—sometimes—ungrateful poor, and going to church in the rain.

“Quite a nice little string,” said Mrs. O’Hara. “And Susan’s mother had
one too. They were a coming-out present from our father. Laura sold hers
for the Red Cross—after her husband was killed, you know—but I kept
mine until the other day, and it only fetched twenty pounds, though I am
sure it cost a great deal more than that. Does Freddy _like_ being in
China, my dear? And I hope you have good news of Roger. Are they
together? Because that would be so nice. I do think it is so delightful
that you should have married someone who was such a friend of your
brother’s. But of course that is how you came to meet Freddy—isn’t it?
I remember your bringing them both up to King’s Bourne, and I thought
then what friends they were. Of course, you know, my dear, I always have
thought your brother Roger one of the handsomest young men I ever met.
And you were all such friends, you, and Roger, and Susan, and Cathy—oh,
yes—thank you, my dear—I am always dropping my handkerchief, I can’t
think why.”

The conversation went on. Susan went away.

Roger Vere certainly was very good-looking. He had a way with him too, a
sailor’s way, and when he came home on leave he added considerably to
the gaiety of the countryside by making love to every girl he met. He
had made rather special love to Susan a year ago when she and Cathy were
bridesmaids at Lydia’s wedding and he was Freddy Hammond’s best man.
Bill had been jealous. Susan caught her breath as she remembered just
how jealous Bill had been. It had really been a thankful day when Roger
took his irresponsible charm to the China Station. Hong Kong might have
him and welcome as far as Susan Lenox was concerned.

She began to prepare the evening meal, and presently a loud hooting
announced the fact that Sir John Vere had finished his sherry and was in
a hurry to get home. Susan pushed her soup to the side of the range and
went out to the gate with Lydia. It opened straight upon the village
street, with the front door almost in reach. Lydia kissed her with a
little extra warmth. The door banged. The car moved off.

Susan stood a moment to see the tail-light disappear. The sound of the
engine died away. She could hear the water flowing on the other side of
the street—the little deep stream which gave the village its name. Each
house had its own culvert. Under all these tiny bridges the water flowed
ceaselessly, sometimes flooding out into the roadway after heavy rain,
never failing through the longest drought. Susan’s room looked this way.
She loved the voice of the stream, she loved to wake and hear it in the
night. She lingered and listened to it now.

She had turned to go in, when she heard another sound, a man’s footsteps
coming nearer. She stood with the gate in her hand. Bill—but it
couldn’t be Bill—he would have let her know. And then the dark shape
loomed. Warmth and happiness flooded up in her. She let go of the gate
and was in his arms.

“Bill!”

“Susan!”

They stood holding one another close. She put up her face and they
kissed. It did not matter how long or how short a time it was since they
had met, there was always this rush of happiness, this deep contentment
when they were together again.

Susan spoke first.

“Oh, Bill—why didn’t you ring up? We’ve got a dreadfully female meal.”

“I knew you lived on buns when I wasn’t here.”

“It isn’t buns—it’s eggs.”

“I’m strong on eggs. And as a matter of fact I did ring up, but they
couldn’t get any reply.”

“That’s Aunt Milly. It’s too naughty—she just won’t get up off her
sofa. And it’s no good saying anything, because she’s got it firmly
embedded in her mind that the telephone means bad news. I did hound her
into answering it when we moved down here, and the very first time she
did, it was Uncle James’ lawyer to say those mining shares of hers were
a total loss. I found her having palpitations, and after that she simply
wouldn’t go near the thing again. Oh, Bill, how did you come?”

“Car. Ted Walters has taken her on. He’ll pick me up in the morning.”

“Come along in and help me cook the eggs. Cathy’ll be back any time
now.”

“Wait a minute. Susan, I’ve had a nibble. I had to come and tell you
about it.”

“Oh, Bill!”

“It’s the most wonderful chance if it comes off. But you won’t count on
it—will you? I mean, it’s no good counting on it—not with people who
come and talk about building houses anyway. They’re all over you one
minute, and everything you say goes, and the next thing you know they’re
as flat as yesterday’s beer and you wouldn’t think they knew what an
architect was for. All the same, listen, Susan. You know the Maynards
really are pleased with their house. Well, Mrs. Maynard’s got a second
cousin, who’s got a third cousin umpty-ump times removed, who is married
to Gilbert Garnish——”

Susan said in a faint, flabbergasted voice,

“Darling, _who_ is Gilbert Garnish?”

“You don’t read the papers. Gilbert is a pillar of our Empire
trade—things in tins, things in bottles. ‘Mr. Smith will never leave
home again now that Mrs. Smith has learned that Garnish’s Grand Goods
are what keep husbands at home. Do you want to keep your husband at
home? Give him Garnish’s Turkey in a Tablet on his toast! Give him
Garnish’s Grand Jams! Give him Garnish’s Glorious Jellies! Give
him——’”

“Oh, Bill, stop!”

“Well, have you got Garnish?”

“Yes, yes—what about him?”

Bill picked her up and hugged her.

“Well, I hope I’ve got him too.”

“Oh, Bill—how marvellous!”

“We mustn’t count on it, but he did seem awfully keen. He took about
three hours telling me what he wanted—and when you’re a Garnish time is
money. The trouble is he wants something as much like Balmoral as
possible. Not quite so big, of course, and the last thing in plumbing,
but the date-stamp on his mind is definitely of the Balmoral period.” He
began to sing at the top of his voice, “My heart’s in the Highlands, my
heart is not here.”

“Bill! The whole village will think you’re drunk!”

“I am. I’ve been bottling it up all the way down, and it’s gone to my
head with a rush.” A powerful hug took all the breath out of her body.
“Susan—oh, Susan, if it comes off, we can get married at once! He’s
going to let me know on Monday, and I oughtn’t to have told you, but I
just couldn’t keep it in. And it doesn’t take more than three days to
get a licence, so if it comes off—Susan, if it comes off—we’ll get
married on Thursday!”

Susan had the strangest feeling of unreality. Bill’s arms had been round
her like this in so many a dream, his coat rough against her
cheek—rough and a little wet. It hadn’t been raining. She must have
cried to make his shoulder wet like this.

She said in a straining voice, “Don’t count on it so much, my
darling—_don’t_,” and knew that the words went past him.

“Susan—you will—if it comes off. You will, darling, you will!”

A shiver went over her. It was a dream like all those other dreams. She
would wake up. It wasn’t real. But even in a dream kisses are sweet and
love is dear. She put up her lips to Bill and clung to him.

Everything seemed much more real again when they were heating up the
soup and scrambling the eggs together. Bill let the soup boil over
whilst he went poaching amongst Susan’s tins looking for candied peel.
In the light he could be seen as a hefty, upstanding young man with dark
hair and rather nondescript grey eyes, rather square features, rather a
jutting chin, rather the look of a man who likes having his own way but
will take it with a due regard for other people just so long and just so
far as the bounds set by a hot temper and a cool sense of justice. The
temper was hot enough. Susan had seen it directed against other people,
never yet against herself. She had seen him fight a carter twice his
weight when he was fifteen because the man was lashing a horse that was
unfit for work. She had seen him throw a tramp who had frightened Cathy
into the middle of the village pond a couple of years later. The temper
was there all right, but at twenty-seven he had it under control.

He was sitting on the dresser eating his stolen peel, when Cathy slipped
in like a little mouse, with her brown dress, her mousy brown hair, and
her soft brown eyes.

“Mummy says are you nearly ready, because——”

“She’s going to swoon,” said Bill.

He got down from the dresser with a large piece of green peel in his
hand and gave her a sticky kiss.

Susan laughed.

“I shall have to lock everything up when we’re married, or he’ll ruin
us. We’re just coming, Cathy. He let the soup boil over.”

They went in processionally, each girl with a soup-plate, and Bill in
front with two.

Rather to Susan’s dismay, Bill poured out the whole story of Mr. Garnish
to the assembled family.

“But, Bill, we mustn’t count on it——”

“Who’s counting?”

“You are.”

“I’m not. I’m living in the present. If Gilbert comes off, well, it’s
all right—it’s all stupendously right. And if Gilbert doesn’t come off,
a good time will have been had by all over his castle in the air.” He
threw back his head and laughed. “I know a chap who says we’re going to
be able to photograph thoughts—dreams—things like that. I bet
Gilbert’s castle in the air would come out something like the result of
putting Balmoral and the Regent Palace Hotel and one of those big
hydropathics into a cocked hat and shaking them up. And Susan and I are
going to be married on Thursday, Aunt Milly. No relations, by request,
but you and Cathy can come if you’re good. Have some more. Susan
scrambles a very good egg—that’s why I’m marrying her. Lots of vitamins
in scrambled eggs, if you want to get up your strength for the wedding.”

Mrs. O’Hara passed up her plate. She had an excellent appetite.

“My dear boy, how you do run on,” she said in an indulgent voice.

When the meal was over and cleared away there came out of a cardboard
cylinder the plans, brought up to date, of the house which they would
build if Gilbert came off. Bill had produced the first sketch within
twenty-four hours of their engagement two years ago. It had to be as
cheap as possible. But it wasn’t going to be just like everybody else’s
house. It was going to be different—it was going to be theirs. Only
three rooms to start with—kitchen and good-sized living-room downstairs
and bedroom above. The latest sketch, encouraged by Gilbert, had rather
let itself go. The squeezed-in bathroom had become comparatively
palatial, and the most exciting things had happened to the garden. They
sat with their heads together and babbled about cherry trees and
lavender hedges.

It was all very comfortable and comforting, but in the middle Susan
looked up and saw Cathy looking at them. She had been reading, but her
hands had dropped and her book had fallen. She sat on a square brocaded
stool with her back to the fire watching Susan and Bill. Her eyes were
frightened. Susan looked back quickly at the plans of her little house.
But it didn’t look real any more. It was just pencil marks on a sheet of
drawing-paper.




                               CHAPTER IV


Bill went off in the morning. Somewhere round about twelve o’clock, when
Susan was just going to make a cake, the telephone bell rang. Well, at
least it hadn’t waited until she had got her hands in the flour. She
picked up the receiver and heard Cathy say, “Is that you?”

Susan laughed a little.

“Who else could it possibly be?”

“I know—but you see——” Cathy sounded a little breathless. “Are you
very busy? Because Mr. Dale is planning the new lily pool, and he
wondered if you could possibly spare the time to come with us and have a
look at the place.”

“I’m making a cake,” said Susan, not quite truthfully.

There was an indistinct murmur from the telephone, and then Lucas Dale’s
voice.

“Miss Lenox, Cathy has told you we are planning the pool. She says you
are much better at that sort of thing than she is. You don’t know how
grateful I’d be if you would come and have a finger in the pie.”

“But I’ve got to make a cake, Mr. Dale—to say nothing of lunch.”

“I see——” He sounded as if he were considering a point of importance.
“Well then—I ought to have thought of that—we must just make it after
lunch. How would that do?”

Susan said, “I could come after lunch.”

There was colour in her cheeks as she hung up the receiver. She could
not refuse without rudeness, and he had given her no reason to be rude.
On the contrary he had been all that was kind and considerate to Aunt
Milly, and, she supposed, to her. He paid Cathy three pounds a week for
doing very much what she had done for Uncle James without being paid at
all. It would be cutting off the family nose to spite her face if she
were to offend Lucas Dale, and she really had not the slightest reason
for offending him. He had never said or done anything to which she could
take exception. All he had done was to look at her rather longer and
rather more often than she liked, and the long, frequent looks had said
what she did not choose that anyone except Bill should say—“You’re
lovely. I love to look at you.”

Well, if he got no farther than that. . . . Other men’s eyes had said
the same things, but he knew, everyone knew, that she was engaged to
Bill. And it would be fun to plan the lily pool. It was fun to plan
anything when you could go absolutely all out without having to think
what it would cost.

She went up through the garden after lunch. There were snowdrops
sheltering among ivy leaves in the orchard bank. The green spikes of the
crocuses were pushing through. The air was damp and mild, the sky
patched blue and grey.

She came out on the upper terrace, and found Lucas Dale waiting for her.
He said, “Cathy had some letters to finish,” and she felt that she had
been trapped. He had used Cathy to trap her, and she found that hard to
forgive. Her temper stiffened. If he asked for a snub he would get one,
and he would have no one but himself to thank for it.

But for the moment no one could have stood in less need of snubbing.
They went across the rose garden to the far end where a hedge shut off
the view.

“You see, this is what I thought. An archway here, so that you can see
down the valley, and beyond the arch—well, that is really what I wanted
your advice about. Would you have the pool there, and should the hedge
be carried round it?”

Susan considered.

“If you have the pool, I think it would have to be enclosed. It would
need a formal setting—you couldn’t just put it down in the open. I
think we ought to go round to the other side of the hedge and see if
there’s enough flat ground there.”

They turned, but when they came to where the sundial waited to record a
sunny hour Lucas Dale took a step ahead and stopped there right in her
path.

“It will do another time,” he said. “I want it to be just as you would
like, but just now—I want to talk to you.”

Susan stood and looked at him.

“What do you want to talk to me about?”

A little dark colour came into his face. There was a sense of emotion
kept in check. He said,

“Don’t you know, Susan?” And then, “I think you do.”

Susan kept her eyes on his face. She said,

“I don’t want to know.”

“Is that because you want to save my feelings? But suppose I don’t want
to have them saved. It won’t hurt you to listen to me, will it? I won’t
make a scene or distress you. I only want a hearing—I only want to put
my case.”

“You haven’t got a case,” said Susan quickly.

“You mean you have prejudiced it. Well, even so, it can’t possibly hurt
you to listen to what I have got to say.”

“But it’s no use——”

He smiled.

“How do you know that? I have got things that I want to say to you. I
shall never rest until I have said them—I shall never stop trying to
make you listen. You know, I am not asking so much—I only want you to
listen. You will do that, won’t you?”

Susan looked away. There was something in his eyes—something. She said,

“Very well, I’ll listen—but it isn’t any good.”

There was a little pause. She thought he came a step nearer, and she
thought that he was smiling.

“We are both taking a good deal for granted—aren’t we, Susan? You’re
quite right of course. How soon did you find out that I was in love with
you?”

Her colour rose. She made no reply. He said,

“I wanted you to know. It happened the first time I saw you. You had on
a blue dress—you had caught it on a rose bush—you asked me if I had a
pin, and I gave you one to pin it up with. I fell in love with you then.
Whilst you were pinning your dress I said to myself, ‘That’s my wife.
She doesn’t know it yet, but that’s my wife.’”

Susan made an abrupt movement.

“I can’t listen to this sort of thing, Mr. Dale.”

“Why? It doesn’t hurt you, does it? And you promised to listen. I was
trying to explain. I don’t want you to think I fell in love with you in
just the ordinary way—I didn’t. You got me the way a woman does get a
man once in a while. I’m not saying much about how I feel, but if
there’s any way a man can love a woman more than I love you, I’d like to
know about it so that I can love you that way too.”

The tears stung in Susan’s eyes.

“Oh, Mr. Dale, _don’t_!”

“Because of Bill Carrick?”

“You know we’re going to be married—you’ve always known.”

He shook his head.

“I don’t know it now. You’re going to marry me.”

Susan flamed with anger.

“How dare you say a thing like that to me? I’m engaged to Bill, and I’m
going to marry him—sooner than you think perhaps.”

“What does that mean?”

“It might mean next week.”

Anger had ripped up her discretion. She wanted only to convince him and
to convince herself. Because she was frightened—she was frightened.
There was nothing to be frightened about. There were gardeners within
call. What could he do? She couldn’t guess. He was smiling. His smile
frightened her. He said easily,

“Look here, Susan—have you ever thought what you are doing to Bill
Carrick? If you were fond of him you wouldn’t want to do it. He may be
as clever as paint and as good at his job as you think he is, but how is
a young fellow going to get on if he’s got a wife tied round his neck
just when he wants all his thoughts and energies for his work? It’s a
hard scramble getting up the ladder, and the married men don’t make it.
They’re carrying two, and the last little bit of push that means success
peters out over trying to make both ends meet round the family bills.”

Susan said, “Stop!” Her eyes were wide and frightened. This wasn’t Lucas
Dale’s voice. It was a voice that talked with her when she was tired,
when she was discouraged, when she couldn’t sleep.

He said, “It’s true.”

Susan tried for words. She couldn’t get the right ones. She tried again.

“People have to make up their own minds about that sort of thing. No one
else can say.”

“That’s true enough,” said Lucas Dale. “And you’re putting it kindly.
You might have told me to mind my own business, and if you had, I should
have told you that it was my business because I love you, and because I
know what I’m talking about. You see, when I was Carrick’s age I did
just that very thing—I fell in love and I married with nothing in the
cupboard and my way to make. That’s why I could say what I did just
now—I’ve been there. It was just plain hell. You don’t know what it
does to a man, trying to be in two places at once, live two lives, work
double tides, never get anywhere, and come home at night to a girl who
hasn’t known what to do with herself all day. There wasn’t much left of
our fine romance after six months. We had to count every penny.
Sometimes there weren’t any pennies to count. She was very pretty, and
she’d been used to more money than I could give her—she was on the
stage. We’d been married just a year when she walked out on me.”

“Is she dead?” said Susan. Her soft heart was touched. She was sorry for
him.

He gave a short laugh.

“No, she’s not dead. You know the first thing I did when I struck a bit
of luck? I got my divorce, and I was every bit as glad to get it as I
had been to get the licence to marry her. That makes you stop and think
a bit, doesn’t it? She’d been bad luck to me all right, and when I got
rid of her I got rid of my bad luck too. That’s when I went out to my
first job in the States, and from then on everything went right. I
couldn’t put a foot wrong if I tried. Well, I didn’t mean to go into all
that. I only wanted to show you that I knew what I was talking about.
And if you marry me, I’d know how to make you a good husband. I’d make
you happy, Susan.”

She looked at him without anger and shook her head. There was pity in
her eyes, and something that wasn’t quite a smile.

“You don’t think so now,” said Lucas Dale. “But I’ll make you happy, and
I’ll make you love me.” His voice was suddenly rough with feeling.

“I can’t listen,” said Susan. “_Please_, Mr. Dale——”

He stood out of her way.

“That’s all,” he said.




                               CHAPTER V


Coming up the garden, Susan met Montague Phipson. He had an inky
forefinger, and his usually sleek fair hair was slightly ruffled. His
pince-nez dangled by the cord, and without it his pale blue eyes had a
vague, short-sighted look. He was hurrying, but when he saw Susan he
stopped.

“Oh, Miss Lenox, have you seen Mr. Dale anywhere?”

“He is in the rose garden—I’ve just left him there.”

He looked worried.

“Then perhaps I—or is he just coming, do you think?”

Susan hoped not.

She said, “I’m late—I must fly,” and hurried on. She was angry,
resentful, and frightened, but in some odd way Dale had touched her.
There had been tears in her eyes. She wanted to get away, to be alone,
to think about Gilbert Garnish and fees—lots and lots of comfortable
fat fees for Bill, so that they could have their house and make the two
ends of their income not only meet but overlap. It was an insult for
this other man to call her his wife. What was it Miranda said to
Ferdinand in The Tempest? “I am your wife if you will marry me. If not,
I’ll die your maid.” She was Bill’s wife and she would marry him. There
wasn’t anyone else—there would never be anyone else.

Half way across the terrace she came face to face with a spruce little
man she had never seen before. He had rather upstanding black hair and a
Charlie Chaplin moustache. His eyes snapped brightly here, there and
everywhere. He reminded her of a squirrel looking for nuts. He took off
his hat and addressed her politely.

“Have I the pleasure of speaking to Mrs. Dale?” Voice and accent were
American.

To her annoyance Susan’s colour rose. It was the flush of anger, but he
wasn’t to know that. He thought she was a mighty pretty girl, and he
thought Dale was in luck.

“Oh, no—I’m Miss Lenox. If you are looking for Mr. Dale you will find
him in the rose garden just down there.”

She pointed, but he stood there and showed a disposition to talk.

“I’m a very old friend of Mr. Dale’s. And will he be pleased to see me!”

Judging this to be a rhetorical question, Susan made no attempt to
answer it. The little man threw back his head and laughed.

“And that depends on how much store Mr. Dale sets by his old friends,
doesn’t it? That was what you were going to say if I’d given you time.
Did you ever hear him speak of Capper G. Bell? That’s my father. Or
Vincent C. Bell? That’s me—and very pleased to meet you, Miss Lenox.”

“Thank you,” said Susan. “I have only known Mr. Dale a very short time.
If you go down that path at the end of the terrace you will find him.”

She got away this time with a slight inclination of the head and the
faintest of smiles. The audience was closed. Vincent Bell considered
that he had been given the air. He felt a trifle aggrieved. He was
anxious to see Lucas Dale, but business which had kept for a couple of
years would have kept for another ten minutes or so. He had an eye for a
pretty girl. He looked after her with some regret before taking the path
to the rose garden.

He encountered Mr. Montague Phipson coming back.

“Oh, Mr. Bell, I’m sorry you didn’t wait in the drawing-room. Mr. Dale
is just coming in.”

Vincent Bell appeared to be amused.

“He’s coming in, and I’m going out. What happens next? I’d say we’d
meet—wouldn’t you? We’re very old friends, your Mr. Dale and me, and if
you’ve been with him long you’ll know just how much ice that cuts.”

He laughed and went on down the path, leaving Mr. Phipson rather at a
loss. Perhaps he ought to have stopped him. Perhaps Mr. Dale would be
angry. It was at all times most necessary to know just what would or
would not anger Mr. Dale. There seemed to be no rule about it, but just
now, when he had announced the arrival of an old friend, there had
certainly been no enthusiasm—rather, a certain tension.

Mr. Phipson didn’t really know what to do. Lucas Dale had said quickly,
“Where is he—in the drawing-room? All right, keep him there. I’m
coming.” And he had had no chance of keeping him there, because Mr. Bell
had already followed him. It was quite on the cards that Mr. Dale would
be furious. It was equally on the cards that he would be indifferent or
amused. It was very worrying indeed not to know where you were. It might
be as well to find out.

Mr. Phipson turned and went back along the path towards the rose garden,
but before coming to it he struck across the grass and, arriving at the
outer side of the fine yew hedge which kept the wind from the roses,
proceeded to skirt it, head a little on one side and ears cocked, rather
after the manner of the nervous terrier who smells a rat but is almost
certain to turn tail and bolt if the rat comes out of his hole.

He had not gone more than a dozen yards, when Lucas Dale’s voice made
him start. It was raised above its normal tone, and there was no doubt
that it was raised in anger.

“And what do you think you’ll get by coming over here and pitching that
sort of tale? You’ve come to the wrong shop, and the sooner you make up
your mind to that the better! Not a penny—not a cent—not the smell of
half a dime! Do you get that? You’d better!”

Mr. Phipson found himself very much interested. The hedge made a perfect
screen, but it afforded no obstacle to sound. He could hear every word.
He heard Vincent Bell laugh, and he heard him say in a tone of what he
supposed to be mock admiration,

“If that isn’t interesting!”

“I hope it interests you,” said Lucas Dale.

“Very much—very much indeed. I like to see a man change his mind and
change his tune, and I’m looking forward to seeing you change yours.”

“You won’t.”

“Will you bet on it? I shouldn’t if I were you, Dale, because you’d
lose. You see, I’ve got you in a cinch. And how? You can’t go into
court, and I can.” He laughed with apparent enjoyment. “Why, I’d be
tickled to death! Too bad, isn’t it? But that’s the way I’m playing.
Very nice place you’ve got here too. It would be a pity to have anything
happen so that you’d have to move on—wouldn’t it? You think it over,
and when you’ve made up your mind you’ll play my way you can let me
know.”

There was a pause. Then Mr. Phipson heard his employer say in a slow,
harsh voice,

“Where are you staying?”

Vincent Bell sounded more amused than ever. He said,

“I’m stopping here.”




                               CHAPTER VI


Cathleen O’Hara looked up from the letter she was writing. She had
caught the sound of a footstep on the flagged path outside. Her
writing-table faced the windows of a deep recess which gave her what
amounted to a room of her own to work in, though it was open to the
study. Lucas Dale’s table, large, masculine, and in perfect order, stood
on the far side of the large room. When he sat there he had only to lift
his eyes to see across the terrace, and across the valley to the line of
distant hills.

Cathy’s windows were at the side of the house. The flagged walk ran
below them. She looked over it to a small sunk garden which would be
bright with spring bulbs later on. She wondered if it was Lucas Dale who
was coming along the path, or his American friend who had dropped from
the blue yesterday afternoon. She liked him very much. Or did she? She
wasn’t really sure. She liked the way he spoke. It was
different—amusing. She liked his being so new, so different, but she
wasn’t sure whether she really liked him. When you have lived in a place
all your life, you know everyone so very well. You know just what they
will think and what they will say, and what they will do, and that may
be dull, but it gives you a very safe feeling. When you don’t really
know people you don’t feel quite so safe. Cathy liked to feel safe.

But it was neither Lucas Dale nor Vincent Bell who was coming along the
path. It was a woman. She came up to the casement window and leaned on
the sill, looking in. Cathy had never seen her before. As she met the
bold, challenging stare she began to wish that she hadn’t opened that
window. The sun on the glass had tempted her.

The woman leaned right in with her head and shoulders in the room and
said,

“Lucas at home?”

Cathy was startled and showed it. She was a little bit of a thing, and
the woman leaning in at the window was a haggard, strapping creature
with big black eyes and bare sinewy hands. A lot of black hair in untidy
loops and braids, and a bright handkerchief at her throat like a gipsy
woman. If she hadn’t used Dale’s Christian name in the way she had, that
is just what Cathy would have taken her for—one of those women who come
swinging round to the back door, basket on hip, trying to sell rubbish
to the maids and tell their fortunes. Maids don’t like to send them
away.

Cathy wouldn’t have liked to send this woman away. She had on an old
black cloth coat with a collar of draggled fur, and a black hat with a
scarlet feather. There was a red dress under the coat, and the silk
handkerchief was as bright as a parrot’s wing. Long gold earrings bobbed
and swung amongst the untidy braids. She laughed jeeringly at Cathy’s
dismay, and said in a deep voice that was sometimes harsh and sometimes
musical,

“Come—I won’t eat you. Where’s Lucas? I want to see him.”

Cathy collected herself. The woman had probably come to beg. Or had she?
Her clothes were shabby, all except the coloured handkerchief, which was
shiny and new. But she had said “Lucas”—

Cathy drew her chair back a little.

“I don’t know if Mr. Dale is in. And—and—he doesn’t see anyone without
an appointment. Is he expecting you?”

“I don’t know,” said the woman. “He might be. He ought to have got my
letter yesterday, but I don’t suppose he’d tell you about it. He can be
pretty close when it suits his book.” She laughed a little. “He’ll see
me all right—you don’t need to worry about that. Oh, yes, yes—he’ll
see me.” She straightened up and took a look about her, left, right,
over her shoulder, and back into the room again. “He’s got a nice place
here—I’ll say that for it.”

She had some kind of an accent which Cathy couldn’t place. It would be
very strong, and then it would fade right out. It was very strong as she
spoke now.

“What’s anyone want with a place like this? It wouldn’t be my choice, I
can tell you. What’s he want it for?”

“You could ask him,” said Cathy.

She got a sharp look. Her lips trembled unwillingly into a smile. The
woman said quick and hard,

“Are you the girl?”

The smile vanished. Cathy’s head lifted.

“I am one of Mr. Dale’s secretaries. I will find out if he is in.”

But before she could rise from her chair the woman said,

“What are you taking offence about? If you’re the girl, you can say so,
can’t you? And if you’re not, well, I suppose you can give a civil
answer to a civil question.”

“I think you had better put your questions to Mr. Dale,” said Cathy. She
crossed the room and rang the bell.

She was watched as she went and came again. There was a frown for her
return.

“What’s that picture over there above the chimney-piece?”

Cathy looked round, because although she knew it so well, she could
always look at it again with a secret pleasure and emotion. The picture
hung upon the jutting chimney-breast. It had hung there for as long as
Cathy could remember. Two young girls in white dresses looked out from
it at the room—at the unknown. One of them was dark and pale, with her
hair in a mist about her face. The other was fair and golden, with deep
dreaming eyes. Both had beauty. She said,

“It is Lazlo’s portrait of my mother and her twin sister.”

“Not much alike for twins.”

“No—they were not at all alike.”

“The dark one’s your mother, I suppose. You don’t favour her much.” She
gave a short laugh.

Cathy blushed and was glad to see the door open. The butler came in. She
said with relief,

“Oh, Raby, is Mr. Dale in the house, do you know? This lady——” She
turned to the woman. “What name shall he say?”

A card was produced, rather to Cathy’s surprise. She would not have
expected that such a gipsy-looking woman would have a card, but if she
had one, it would be like this, very large and square, with a wild
flourish of ornamental lettering. She glanced at the name as she handed
it to Raby—Miss Cora de Lisle. And under that in pencil, Theatre Royal,
Ledlington.

Before Raby had crossed to the door Miss de Lisle was back at the
portrait.

“If that’s your mother, why has Lucas got the picture?”

“It’s valuable,” said Cathy simply. “Mr. Dale bought all the pictures
with the house.”

“He can buy anything he’s got a fancy for these days, or he thinks he
can,” said Cora de Lisle. “What about the other girl—the fair one?”

“She died a long time ago—in the war.”

“Married?”

“Oh, yes. Her husband was killed.”

“Any family?”

Cathy felt that she ought to be able to stop this inquisition. The woman
gave her a helpless feeling. She said,

“My cousin Susan Lenox is her daughter.”

And then she wished she hadn’t answered. The haggard, sallow face waked
up suddenly. It had a moment of fierce beauty as Cora de Lisle repeated
the name Cathy had just spoken.

“Susan Lenox—that’s the girl—that’s the one I’ve been hearing about!
What’s she like?”

Cathy hoped earnestly that Raby would not be long. There was no harm in
Miss de Lisle’s questions, she supposed, but they made her feel
dreadfully nervous. She said in a stumbling voice,

“Oh, Susan is fair.”

“Like that girl in the picture?” Cora de Lisle laughed angrily. “Lucas
would fancy that all right! And he’d fancy having her picture stuck up
there where he could look at it. Come on—give us an answer, can’t you!
Is that what she’s like?”

Cathy said “Yes” in a small, displeased voice. She felt offended, but
too nervous and inadequate to check the woman’s impertinence. Susan
would have been able to do it—Susan——

Cora de Lisle said harshly, “If Lucas wants anything he gets it. If he
wants that girl he’ll get her, and she’ll be as sorry for it as I was.”

Cathy plucked up a little trembling courage.

“Please——”

“Well?”

“You mustn’t say things like that.”

“And who’s going to stop me? I’ve got the free use of my tongue, and
I’ll say what I like with it to Lucas, and to you, and to Miss Susan
Lenox!” She repeated the name with a sort of mocking music. “Miss Susan
Lenox—and as pretty as a picture. He likes them pretty. I wasn’t so bad
myself. And now it’s Miss Susan Lenox!” She laughed derisively. “I
wonder how she’ll like my cast-off shoes. I wouldn’t fancy another
woman’s leavings myself.”

Cathy was as white as a sheet. She thought Miss de Lisle had been
drinking though it was so early in the day. She had always been
terrified of anyone who drank. She got up and did her best to be brave.

“Please stop talking about Susan. I don’t know what you’ve heard, but
it’s not true. She is engaged to someone else.”

Cora de Lisle stared at her.

“Oh lord—so was I!” she said. “What difference does that make?”

“I don’t know who you are,” said Cathy, “but—oh, please go away!”

“I was Mrs. Lucas Dale for five years—and damned miserable ones too,”
said Cora de Lisle.

Cathy said, “Oh!”

And then she heard the sound she had been waiting for, the door opening
and Raby coming in. He came right up to them and said in a low,
respectful voice,

“Mr. Dale has gone out in the Daimler. He left word that he would not be
back till late.”




                              CHAPTER VII


Susan woke in the night and heard a cry. It must have been the cry that
waked her, and just for a moment her heart beat strongly. Then she knew
what it was—Cathy calling out in her sleep as she had often done in
their nursery days when anything had happened to disturb or frighten
her. She jumped out of bed, caught up her dressing-gown without stopping
to put it on, and ran barefoot into Cathy’s room.

There were just the three bedrooms in the Little House, and because they
had no maid they could have one each. When Bill stayed he got the
drawing-room sofa, and said it spoilt him for his hard London bed.
Cathy’s room looked to the garden. The window stood wide to a cloudy sky
and a soft, damp air.

Susan shut the door behind her and felt her way to the bed. She had
reached the foot, when she heard a smothered sob. She was on her knees
in a moment, holding Cathy close and speaking her name.

“Cathy—what is it? Are you ill?”

The little figure trembled. A shaky voice said, “Oh, Susan!” and was
choked by another sob.

“My lamb, what is it? Tell Susan——”

“It—it—was a dream—a horrible dream——”

Susan had both arms round her, rocking her like a baby.

“Silly little thing! A dream isn’t anything to be frightened about. It’s
gone. You’ve waked up, and I’m here. Everything’s all right. Would you
like the light?”

“Not with you——” There was a long quivering breath. “Lovely to wake
up. But oh, I wish I didn’t dream.”

“You haven’t done it for a long time, have you? And it’s not true—it’s
never true, darling.”

“It’s just as bad while it lasts,” said Cathy. She sat up and clutched
at Susan. “It was a most horrid dream about being in a cage. I was
locked in, and I couldn’t get out, and they came and pointed at me
through the bars. It was just as bad as if it was true, because as long
as you don’t wake up it is true in the dream.”

She shook so much that the whole bed shook too.

Susan said “Nonsense!” in a brisk voice. She leaned sideways, found a
box of matches, and lit the candle. It showed Cathy very much as the
nursery candlelight had showed her when she was eight years old and
afraid of the dark, like a little white ghost with her hair damp on her
forehead and her hands clenched together under her chin.

“There—that’s better,” said Susan. “You don’t wake right up in the
dark. Shall I make you a cup of tea?”

“No—don’t go——” There was another of those long breaths. “I’ll be all
right again soon, but—stay a little. I don’t want it to come back.”

Susan said, “It won’t.”

She put on her blue dressing-gown and came and sat on the bed, her hair
loose on her neck and golden in the candlelight. She had been lying on
her side before she woke, and that cheek was warmly flushed. Her eyes
were very kind, and soft with sleep. Cathy looked at her and said,

“I don’t want you to be cold. It’s going away. Stay just a little.”

“I’m not cold,” said Susan.

“It’s really going. I think that woman frightened me. She wasn’t like
anyone I’ve ever talked to before. There was something fierce about her.
I expect that’s what made me have that dream.”

Susan said, “Silly little thing——” in a warm, sleepy voice. The
candlelight flickered in her eyes, the flame had a halo round it. She
blinked, and heard Cathy say as if from a long way off,

“Did you know he was married, Susan?”

It was like cold water in her face. The drowsy feeling left her. She
said,

“Oh, yes—he told me. But they are divorced.”

Cathy said, “Oh!” The frightened feeling touched her again. She said in
a whisper,

“When did he tell you that?”

“Day before yesterday, when I came up about the lily pond.”

“Why did he tell you?” said Cathy, still in that whisper.

There was no sleep in Susan now. She said in a clear, reserved voice,

“I suppose he wanted me to know.”

“She wrote to him,” said Cathy. “She said so. She wrote and said she was
coming. He must have had the letter that morning before he asked you to
come up and talk about the pool. If he told you then——Susan, why did
he tell you then? I don’t like it—it frightens me.”

It didn’t frighten Susan, it displeased her. She said,

“It doesn’t matter, Cathy. If he knew she was coming he might have
thought he would rather tell us himself that he had been married.”

“He didn’t tell _us_, he told you. Why did he do that?”

Susan made no answer.

All at once Cathy leaned forward and caught her wrist.

“He’s in love with you—that’s why he told you. It frightens me.”

“I think you’re being silly,” said Susan. Her voice changed suddenly.
“Cathy! You mustn’t say things like that!”

“It’s true.”

Susan stood up.

“That’s all the more reason for not talking about it,” she said.




                              CHAPTER VIII


That was Friday night, the night between Friday and the Saturday morning
which Susan was never to forget—a soft, cloudy night, with Cathy’s
dream of being in a cage set in it like a frightening picture.

The morning came up in a mist. Cathy came down to breakfast rather paler
than usual and with dark smudges under her eyes, but she said no more
about her dream or about being frightened, and went off up to King’s
Bourne at her usual time.

Susan took up Mrs. O’Hara’s tray, washed up the breakfast things, made
her own bed and Cathy’s, and ran down to the gate to meet the postman.
He was a very nice old man called Jeremiah Hill, and he was almost as
pleased as Susan when he could bring out her letter with a flourish and
say, “Morning, Miss Susan—here ’tis.”

There was a letter this morning, but not a fat one. She took it into the
kitchen and read it with sparkling eyes. There was the loveliest colour
in her cheeks. There wasn’t much in the letter, but there was enough
good news for twenty letters. And it was short, because Bill had had
only five minutes to catch the post.

“Garnish has just rung up, and I’m to come and see him in his London
office first thing on Monday morning. He said he’d made up his mind to
let me have a go at it. Said he thought a man did his best work when
he’d got his way to make, and was bound to go all out if he wants to get
anywhere at all. Said that’s how it had been with him, and he expected
it to be that way with me. Oh, _Susan_——”

She had got as far as that, when the telephone bell rang. The fixture
was in the dining-room. She had only to push the communicating door and
she could lift the receiver without really leaving the kitchen at all,
which was very convenient, because you can’t always take your eye off
the stove. Just now there was nothing to watch. She picked up the
receiver, put it to her ear, and heard Lucas Dale say,

“Susan, is that you?” His voice hurried on the words.

She said, “Yes—what is it?”

“Something’s happened. Can you come up here at once?”

“What is it? Cathy——”

“She’s not well. Will you come?”

“What is it? Please tell me, Mr. Dale.”

“She is—upset. I can’t tell you on the telephone. Will you come at
once?”

She said “Yes”, and hung up the receiver. She felt cold and sick.
Cathy. . . . No, it was stupid to feel like this. Cathy had had a bad
night. Perhaps she had turned faint. Men always got frightened. It was
nothing.

She ran upstairs and told Mrs. O’Hara that she was going out. The
breakfast tray was done with, and she took it away. After which she had
to fetch a book from the drawing-room—“and oh dear, my
knitting!”—before she could snatch down an old tweed coat and make her
way up the hill.

As she came up on to the terrace outside the house she saw Lucas Dale at
the glass door which led to the study. He had it in his hand, half open,
and beckoned her in. She thought she had mastered her foolish fears, but
the urgency with which he beckoned her and the sight of his grave, dark
face set them all free again.

He brought her in and shut the door. There was a big leather-covered
chair on either side of the hearth. In the farther one Cathy crouched,
her face hidden in her hands. Her body had a stiff and twisted look. She
did not move or turn when Susan said her name and came to her.

Susan’s arms were round her.

“Cathy—what is it?” she said, as she had said it in the night. “What is
it, darling—what is the matter?”

She felt Cathy stiffen.

Lucas Dale spoke.

“Something very unpleasant has happened, Susan. Perhaps I had better
tell you about it.”

She looked round, startled. He was over by the writing-table, looking
down at it, moving some papers, not looking at her. That frightened her
too. She got up and went over to him.

“What has happened, Mr. Dale?”

He did look at her then.

“I hate telling you, but there’s no way out of it—you’ve got to know.
It’s those pearls, the ones I had out to show you all on Wednesday. You
remember?”

“Yes.”

“Cathy fetched them, and Cathy put them away again. I went to look at
them last night, and some of them are missing.”

The change from what she had been afraid of was so sudden, so direct,
that it left her mind empty. She stared at Lucas Dale and said,

“I don’t understand.”

“I wish you didn’t have to, Susan, but there’s no other way. I haven’t
done anything about sending for the police—I wanted to see you first.
I’m afraid it’s a perfectly clear case. Unfortunately there was a lot of
talk about how seldom I looked at the pearls. And that’s true. I hadn’t
had them out for six months before last Wednesday, and I mightn’t have
had them out for six months again, only last night I had a fancy to look
at them because—because—oh, well, I’m a fool, Susan—I was thinking
about you, and I got out the pearls because I wanted to make a picture
to myself of what they’d look like on your neck. Then when I came to
take them out I saw at once that some of the loose ones were gone. Do
you remember, Mrs. Hammond asked me to count them? She was joking, but I
did count them—I always do. And they were all right when Cathy took
them away. You remember she had my keys. I never dreamed of not trusting
her as if she had been myself, but—there are twenty of the loose pearls
missing, and twenty-five very well matched ones which I got last year in
case I wanted to have the big necklace lengthened. They were very good
pearls, just loosely strung, and the ends knotted to keep them safe.”

Whilst he talked, understanding came to Susan, and a blinding anger.
Everything in her flamed. She said, “Stop! How dare you say a thing like
that about Cathy!”

He looked at her, and looked away.

“Do you think I want to say it?”

“Mr. Dale, you can’t mean that you think Cathy took your
pearls—_Cathy_!”

“What _can_ I think? The pearls were all there on Wednesday evening—I
can swear to that. Everyone in the room heard Mrs. Hammond tell me to
count them. No one touched them after that except Cathy. She put them
away and brought me back my keys. When I got them out last night there
were forty-five pearls missing.”

Susan turned. Cathy had lifted her head. Her face was white and wet, her
eyes wide with fright. Susan said,

“Cathy—you hear what he says. What did you do when you put the tray
away? Try and think.”

Cathy opened her lips to speak. She had to try twice before any sound
came. She said at last,

“I put—it away——”

“Think, Cathy—_think_! Did you put it down anywhere, or go out of the
room? Did you put the keys down?”

Cathy shook her head. Words came a little more easily.

“No—I put it away.”

“At once?”

“Yes.”

Susan turned to Dale. He said,

“She didn’t give me back the keys till everyone had gone. There was time
enough and to spare.”

There was a gasp from Cathy. Her face went back into her hands again.
Lucas Dale said,

“There it is.”

“What are you going to do?” said Susan in an icy voice.

She saw him frown.

“I’ve been thinking it out since last night. If she took those
pearls—and I can’t see how anyone else can have taken them—well, they
won’t have gone very far. She hasn’t been out of the place since
Wednesday, and she wouldn’t risk posting them in the village—if she
did, they’ll be easily traced. But this afternoon she was going into
Ledlington by the two o’clock bus—she might have reckoned on getting
them away then. Now look here, Cathy, I’ve got a name for being a hard
man, but I don’t want to be hard on you. I don’t know what you wanted
money for, but I’d have given you anything in reason if you’d come and
asked me to help you. You took my pearls instead. Well, I want them
back. Make a clean breast of it and give them up, and I won’t
prosecute.”

Cathy lifted her head again. She had a lost look.

“I—can’t——”

Susan had a stab of fear.

“Why can’t you?” said Lucas Dale.

Cathy began to shake. Between chattering teeth she stammered,

“I—don’t—know——I didn’t take them—oh, I _didn’t_!”

Dale shrugged his shoulders.

“You see—that’s all she says. I did my best before you came, but she
won’t speak. Well, she’s had her chance. I asked you to come here
because I think it’s most likely she’s got the pearls on her. Either
that or they’re in her room at the Little House. If she’s got them here,
they’ll be on her or in her bag. Will you turn out her bag first, and if
they’re not there, will you take her up into one of the bedrooms and
search her? I want to be quite sure before I ring up the police. You
see, I’m trusting you.”

Susan walked over to the chair with her head very high.

“Where’s your bag, Cathy?”

It was Lucas Dale who answered.

“It’s over there on her table. Perhaps you wouldn’t mind getting it. I
don’t want to have it in my hands.”

Susan fetched the bag—Cathy’s old brown bag which went everywhere with
her. It was when she was coming back with it that Cathy started up and
ran to meet her.

“Give it to me!”

“Cathy——”

“You mustn’t open it——” The words were in a stuttering whisper. They
chilled Susan’s anger. They chilled her to her bones.

“Cathy——”

“You mustn’t, you mustn’t, you _mustn’t_!”

“Go and sit down!”

Cathy had never heard this voice from Susan before. She went back to the
big chair and cowered down in it as if for shelter.

Susan went up to the writing-table. She faced Lucas Dale across it and
opened Cathy’s bag. It had an inner compartment which shut with a clasp.
The two sides of it were stuffed quite full of odds and ends. Susan took
them out one by one—an almost empty purse, two handkerchiefs, three
pencils, a pencil sharpener, two bills and a receipt from shops in
Ledlington, a letter in a bright blue envelope, a shopping list, a yard
of brown ribbon, a powder compact, lipstick and a little round box of
rouge, some acid drops in a paper bag, a small square pincushion stuffed
full of pins, a ring of safety pins. There seemed to be no end.

Susan came at last to the inner compartment. With her fingers on the
clasp, she heard Cathy take a hard-drawn breath. Her fingers were like
ice as they opened the clasp. There were two little pockets, one of
silk, the other lined with white leather. In the silk pocket there was a
hair-net and hair-pins, in the other a snapshot of Roger Vere. It had
been stuck on a piece of card, and at the bottom there was fastened on
one side a spray of white heather, and on the other a snippet of curly
black hair. Oh, poor Cathy! Susan glanced round with a jab of pity and
relief. Cathy’s face was hidden again.

Susan held the card up with its back to Lucas Dale.

“It’s only a photograph. There’s nothing else.” She turned out the two
little pockets as she spoke, and some dust with them. There was nothing
else.

Dale looked impassively.

“Will you do the same with the rest of it?”

It was when she took hold of the lining and pulled that the slit became
visible. It ran down the side of the lining. She hadn’t noticed anything
until she pulled the silk. It tore now with a small, sharp sound. She
put her hand into the hole and felt the pearls.

Dale had his eyes on her face. He had not meant to watch her, but he
found himself unable to look away. Anger gave her a brilliance which
fairly took his breath. Her colour glowed, her eyes shone. And then all
at once everything hardened, sharpened. Her hand stayed where she had
thrust it, and slowly all the colour drained away, the brightness left
her eyes. It was like watching her die. There seemed to be nothing left.
He leaned across the table and said in an agitated voice,

“Susan—what is it? Don’t look like that!”

She looked at him. Her hand came slowly back, holding a string of pearls
knotted at either end, each pearl the size of a pea, smooth and
iridescent. She moved her hand with the pearls a little towards him and
dropped them down. She did not look at them. She groped for the bag and
pushed it towards him.

Lucas Dale took it up and turned it inside out. The loose pearls that
were in the lining came pattering down. He swept them together, picked
up a straggler here and there, and counted them.

“Twenty—and twenty-five in the string. They’re all here.”

Susan turned and went to Cathy. She felt as if she was bleeding to
death. Her body was slow and stiff. Her mind had come to a standstill.
Cathy and Lucas Dale’s pearls. . . . Lucas Dale’s pearls in Cathy’s bag.
. . . Cathy saying, “You mustn’t open it—you _mustn’t_!” . . . But that
was because of Roger’s photograph. . . . Was it? . . . The pearls were
in the lining of Cathy’s bag. . . . These thoughts had been in her mind
when it stopped. They stayed there without her having any power to
change them.

She came to Cathy and pulled her hands away from her face.

“The pearls were in your bag.”

Cathy stared up at her. A look of blind terror crossed her face. She put
out a groping hand and slipped sideways to the floor.




                               CHAPTER IX


“Are you better, Cathy?”

The brown eyes opened blankly and closed again. Susan felt a rush of
pity and terror. Four years ago, when Cathy had been so ill, she had
looked like that day after day for all those horrible weeks—just there,
just on the edge of death, just living and no more. Her heart broke in
her. She said softly,

“Won’t you tell me about it—won’t you?”

The eyelids lifted again. The eyes looked blankly. The eyelids fell.
Susan said in an urgent voice,

“I must talk to him. You’ll be all right, won’t you? Just lie still.”

There was a sighing breath. She did not dare to wait. If he were to ring
up the police, it would be out of his hands.

They had carried Cathy into the recess where her writing-table stood and
laid her down on the padded window-seat. She had come out of her faint
almost at once, but she had not uttered a word. Susan dared not stay.
She got to her feet, pulled back the curtain which screened the recess,
and saw with relief that Dale had not left the study. He was standing by
the hearth, his elbow on the chimney ledge, looking down into the fire.
As the curtain slid back he turned, waiting for her. She came slowly to
stand beside him and say in a faltering voice,

“What are you going to do?”

“That’s for you to say, Susan.”

She looked at the burning logs.

“That is very kind—very generous. I—I don’t know what to say. She’s
ill. There must be some dreadful mistake, or else she didn’t know what
she was doing. Cathy couldn’t do anything like that if she was
herself—you must know that.”

Lucas Dale said, choosing his words,

“That would be taken into consideration in preparing her defence.”

Her head came up. She said,

“What are you saying? What are you going to do?”

He was looking at her gravely and sternly.

“Do you really expect me not to prosecute?”

“Mr. Dale!”

“You must forgive me if I don’t look at it quite as you do. It’s a
pretty bad case, you know. She was in a position of trust, and I did
trust her implicitly. She has abused that trust in the most flagrant
way. The whole thing seems to me to have been quite cleverly calculated.
Don’t look like that, Susan—I am bound to let you see my point of view.
It’s not only the loss of the pearls, but it was just an outside chance
my looking at them again like that. It might have been six months before
I had them out—or longer. And who would have fallen under suspicion
then? Monty Phipson, or Raby, or one of the servants. I’m not a
suspicious man. After months had passed I couldn’t say or swear that my
keys had never been left about, or that I hadn’t let Monty have them to
fetch something from the safe. The last person on earth to be suspected
would be Miss Cathleen O’Hara, and that’s what she was counting on. How
can you expect me just to pass it over and let her go to play the same
kind of trick on someone else? If you’re kind to a criminal you may be
letting a lot of other people down, and the way the law looks at it, you
would be compounding a felony.”

“You said——”

“I gave her a chance before you found the pearls. If she’d owned up then
and given them back, I could have believed she had given way to some
sudden temptation and been sorry for it ever since. But you saw how it
was—she thought she could get away with it. They were cleverly hidden,
and she held right on. Well, there it is—she made her choice. And that
was the last minute I was going to feel justified in letting her go.”

Susan watched his face, and found no comfort there. He had the look of a
man who has made up his mind. There was no anger—she would have had
more hope if he had been angry. There was a settled purpose, and that
purpose to—send—Cathy—to—prison. . . . Her lips moved very stiffly.

“You said it was for me to say——”

Dale said, “Yes.”

He turned from her abruptly and went to the glass door by which she had
come in. He opened it and stood there, letting the wind blow through.
There was a streak of sun between grey clouds. There was a yellow crocus
out below the window. He shut the door and came back.

“Yes, it’s for you to say, Susan. I’ve got a duty to society, and a duty
to the law, and a duty, as I feel it, to the other members of my
household. But there’s a duty that one puts before all these. It may be
right or it may be wrong, but there it is. It’s nature, and you can’t go
against nature. If a thing like this happens in a man’s own family, he’s
got a right to keep it in the family, and no one can blame him. I
shouldn’t prosecute my wife’s cousin.”

She had known what was coming before it came, but the shock was no less
for that. A car on a straight road and another car coming right at
it—the inevitable head-on collision. You know just when it will come
and where. There is nothing to do but to wait for the crash. It was like
that. At first just the hint of danger, then danger looming, coming
nearer, nearer. Then the words, “I should not prosecute my wife’s
cousin.”

Susan walked to a chair and sat down. She closed her eyes and steadied
herself as best she could to fight for everything that mattered to her
in the world—Cathy, Bill, their little house, Aunt Milly, friends, the
place they had lived in not only for her lifetime and Cathy’s but for
all those generations that had gone before—men and women who had taken
their name from King’s Bourne, lived out their lives there, and were
remembered by cross and slab, by effigy and brass, in the churchyard and
in the church under the hill—not many wise, not many noble, but a race
of honourable people, faithful in their obligations, gallant in stress,
kindly and upright. She had to fight for them, and she went into the
battle shocked and dazed, her heart betraying her, because how can you
think clearly or know what you should do when you love two people and
they pull different ways?

Lucas Dale had never admired her so much as when she lifted eyes that
were dark with pain to his and said,

“Will you sit down? I can’t stand any longer, and we must talk.”

He moved the chair in which Cathy had sat, leaned back in it, and spoke
more gently,

“It rests with you.”

It was some time before she said anything. When she did her voice was
steady.

“You have said that you care for me. I think you do. I am very grateful.
I shall be grateful to you every day of my life if you will be generous
about this.”

“I don’t see it that way, Susan. You mayn’t think I’ve got a code, but I
have. I won’t break it. If this is a family affair it can be settled in
the family. If it isn’t it’s a case for the police. It’s for you to say
whether it’s a family affair or not.”

She took that blow, and came back with a pathetic courage.

“Please, will you let me tell you about Cathy? She isn’t strong—she
hasn’t ever really been strong. About four years ago she had a very bad
illness. She very nearly died. They said then that she mustn’t ever have
any strain or shock. If there were a case and she had to go into court,
I think it would kill her. There must be some mistake, and it would come
out in the end, but I don’t think Cathy would ever get over it. Mr.
Dale—if you care for me at all——”

He said harshly, “That’s not fair.” And then, “I want you to listen to
me. You say if I care for you I’ll break through my code. If I was that
sort of man I wouldn’t be worth caring for you at all. If I’d no more
stuffing in me than that, do you think I’d ever have got where I am? Do
you know what I was? A charity boy—no father, no mother, no name. You
don’t get from that to where I am now by being soft, nor by giving up
because a thing’s hard to get. The harder it’s been, the harder I’ve had
to try, but what I’ve wanted I’ve got, all through. Don’t you think that
you can turn me, Susan. No one ever has, and no one ever will—not when
I’ve set my mind on a thing. What I want I get, and what I get I keep.”

There was a pause on that. The room was very still. His last words said
themselves over and over in Susan’s mind. She broke from them at last.
Some colour came to her cheeks. She said in a stronger voice,

“It’s not possible—none of it. Cathy couldn’t do a thing like that.”

“Who did it then? The pearls were in her bag. She begged you not to open
it. Why did she do that? She crouched right down in that chair and hid
her face when you began to turn it out.”

“There was a photograph there—a boy she’s fond of. She didn’t want
anyone to know.”

She saw him smile.

“You can’t really believe that—or if you can, I can’t. What does it
matter whose photograph she’s got? What’s the use, Susan? She did it,
and she’ll have to stand by it, unless——”

Susan’s face burned.

“Blackmail?” she said, and felt her heart stop with terror at the change
in his face.

He looked like murder as he jerked her out of her chair and held her
facing him.

“Say that again and there will be no unless! Do you want me to ring up
the police—now, at once? Because I will if you like—you’ve only to say
so. Well, what is it to be?” He was rough in voice and action. His hands
bruised her with their hard strength. But she kept her eyes on his. If
she died for it she wouldn’t look away.

“Let me go, Mr. Dale.”

He let go of her at once, walked to the writing-table, and reached for
the telephone. With his hand on it he looked back at her and said,

“Well—make up your mind.”

Susan looked across to the recess where Cathy lay. She hadn’t moved.
Perhaps she wouldn’t move for hours. She had had these turns
before—when her kitten had been killed by a strange dog—when a tramp
had frightened her. She had lain stunned and dazed for hours, and
afterwards she had been ill. The doctors called it shock. They had said,
“Leave it to time.” The word was in Susan’s mind as she turned to Lucas
Dale. She heard herself saying it out loud,

“I must have time.”

He left the table and came back to her. The gust of anger was gone. He
said,

“How much time? I could give you an hour.”

“That’s not enough. Cathy is ill. I can’t ask her anything until she’s
well again. It may be days. And sometimes she doesn’t remember—she
didn’t when her kitten was killed. It’s shock.”

“I’m afraid I can’t give you days—you must see that. I couldn’t explain
to the police why I had put off reporting the theft of the pearls. I can
give you an hour. Would you like me to leave you alone here?”

“Yes, please.”

“Is there anything you would like for yourself or for Cathy?”

She said “No.”

He went out and shut the door.




                               CHAPTER X


That hour was the strangest one in Susan’s life. She could not have told
how it went. It was like the time in a dream, when moments lengthen into
ages or contract to a dizzy flash. She tried to rouse Cathy, to get an
answer from her, but achieved nothing but a dull state of distress
without coherent speech. Dr. Carrick had always told them to let her
alone and she would sleep it off. In the midst of all that was so unreal
she had the clearest picture of Bill’s father saying that in his warm,
reassuring voice.

She began to walk up and down in the long room. Two windows on to the
terrace and the glass door between them. Everything grey and misty
outside. The ray of sun had gone. She turned and walked back, leaving
the windows behind her. The door on the right, Dale’s writing-table, the
chimney-breast, the logs on the hearth fallen down in a bed of white
ash. Above, on the panelling, Lazio’s picture of Millicent and Laura
Bourne. On the left the recess, Cathy’s writing-table. Cathy lying
motionless on the window-seat very small and frail. She walked on to the
end of the room. There was another door on the right. It led by a narrow
passage to a back stair.

Susan turned and came back again. Her eyes went to the picture.
Millicent and Laura Bourne. . . . How lovely and serene they
looked—Aunt Milly who was a fretful invalid—Laura who was dead. . . .
She thought. “I’m twenty-two. I’m older than she was when she died.” She
thought how easy it would be to be dead and not to have to break your
heart.

She stood there and thought about Bill——“I’ve got a right to break my
heart for Cathy, but I’m breaking Bill’s heart too——” A small, cold
voice answered her. It said, “He’ll get over it. _Cathy wouldn’t._ Men
have died and worms have eaten them, but not for love.” Cathy could be
broken like a leaf. Bill would suffer, but he wouldn’t break. She didn’t
think about herself at all. There was no feeling there—it was all numb.
She thought about Bill, and Cathy, and Aunt Milly. She thought Aunt
Milly would crumple up if anything happened to Cathy. She sat down in
the big leather chair and stopped thinking.

The door near the windows opened. Mr. Vincent C. Bell looked in. When he
saw Susan he came right in.

“When I had the pleasure of meeting you the other day I called you out
of your name, so I’m very glad to have the opportunity of saying how do
you do all over again. I’m very pleased to meet you, Miss Lenox.”

Susan looked at him vaguely—the man she had met, coming up from the
rose garden—Cathy had said he was staying——She said,

“Are you looking for Mr. Dale?”

He said, “Mr. Phipson.”

“If you go out by that other door you will see the back stairs on your
left. Mr. Phipson’s room is at the end of the long passage at the top of
the stairs.”

“Well, there’s no hurry,” said Vincent Bell.

Susan said in a tired voice, “My cousin is ill. I am just waiting to
take her home. I think if you don’t mind——”

He seemed a long way off as he apologized and went.

Susan waited. It was a relief when Dale came into the room. She stood up
to meet him and said what she had planned to say.

“You know I am engaged to Bill Carrick——”

“You have been engaged.”

“You know we love each other—very much——”

“I love you too,” said Lucas Dale.

“But I love Bill. I shall always love him.”

“Always is a long time.”

Susan shivered.

“What good will it be to you if I don’t love you—if I love Bill?”

He gave her a strange look.

“I think that’s my look-out. Are you going to marry me?”

Her control broke.

“Don’t make me—don’t make me!”

Dale said, “I’m not making you do anything. I’ve come here to get your
answer.”

She said, “I can’t!” and saw him go to the table and pick up the
telephone.

“Is that your last word? Once I call up the police station there’ll be
no going back.”

“No—no—don’t ring! I didn’t mean that. You mustn’t ring.”

“Well, I don’t want to,” said Dale. “But you’ll have to know your own
mind, because, you see, I’ve got to trust you. I’ve got to be sure that
you won’t let me down. I’ve got to take my decision right away. If I
don’t ring up the police now, it’s not going to be easy to ring them up
later on, in a day or two, if you come to me and say you’ve changed your
mind. How am I going to guard against that?”

Susan’s lips said stiffly, “If I say I’ll do it——”

“I could guard myself,” said Dale. “I could get you to sign a statement
to say you’d found my pearls in your cousin’s bag. But I’m not going to
do that—I’m going to trust your word. You see, that’s how I think of
you. If you gave your word you wouldn’t go back on it. Are you going to
marry me, Susan?”

“Yes.”

“Next week?”

“No.”

“Yes, Susan—yes.” His voice changed suddenly, softened. “What’s the
good of putting it off, my dear?”

That was true. It was no good putting it off.

“Well? Is it yes?”

Susan said, “Yes.”

“Is that your word of honour?”

“Yes.”

He went to the bell and pressed it.

“The car is waiting. I’ll carry Cathy out.”




                               CHAPTER XI


Saturday to Sunday—Sunday to Monday. Susan walked in a nightmare. Her
mind was clogged and dull. Past, present and future lay under a heavy
weight of dread, and there was nothing she could do to break it or get
free. Nothing she could do to get free, but endless tasks to take up
every moment of her time.

Cathy lay in her bed and neither moved nor spoke. She had to be fed and
tended. Aunt Milly cried a good deal, and said darling Cathy had never
been really strong and it was very hard to feel resigned. The house had
to be kept, meals cooked and served, plates and dishes washed. Susan did
everything. She remembered Aunt Milly’s fads, she remembered just how
Cathy liked her hot milk.

In the middle of the Sunday afternoon she sat down to write to Bill. The
post went out at five. If she posted her letter then, he would get it by
the second post on Monday morning. That would be all right. He mustn’t
get it by the first post, because he was to see Gilbert Garnish at nine
o’clock and he must be at his very best for that. She sat and looked at
the paper for a long time. It had always been so easy to write to Bill,
but it wasn’t easy now. She wrote:

“I can’t marry you, Bill. I’m going to marry Lucas Dale.”

She looked at the words, and it seemed to her that they were nonsense.
Bill wouldn’t believe them. She would have to write something that would
make him believe. She wrote again, adding word to word like a child
writing from a copy:

“It doesn’t matter what you think about me, but you mustn’t let it spoil
your work.”

She wrote her name, and folded the sheet quickly without reading it
through. When she had addressed and stamped the envelope she walked down
the street and posted it at Mrs. Gill’s general shop, which was also the
post office. Then she came home and told Mrs. O’Hara that she had broken
off her engagement. Aunt Milly had a great deal to say about it, and
Susan had to listen.

“Of course, my dear, I wouldn’t interfere for the world. And no one
could say he was any sort of a match for you, though his father being so
much respected and such an old friend did make a difference, as I told
poor James at the time. And no one can be fonder of Bill than I am, but
if you don’t feel quite sure about marrying him, it is really much
better to break it off—I have always said so. Because, after all, an
engagement isn’t a marriage, and divorce is a thing we haven’t ever had
in our family, and I hope we never shall. So don’t marry him on any
account unless you feel perfectly sure of yourself, though I’d like to
see you happy and in a home of your own.”

“I’m going to marry Mr. Dale,” said Susan, and went out of the room.

Lucas Dale left her alone. He rang up once to inquire about Cathy, and
said,

“I’m writing to you. I won’t come and see you for a day or two. That’s
what you’d like, isn’t it?”

There was a faint relief in her voice as she said “Yes”.

She got his letter an hour later. He wrote:

“I will make everything as easy for you as I can. I know that I shall
have all my courting to do after we are married. Please don’t be afraid
of me. Please don’t think that I shall try and rush you. Once we are
married you shall have all the time you want. I will go into Ledlington
and make arrangements tomorrow morning. I won’t bother you till
everything is settled. I thought perhaps Thursday——”

Susan felt a piercing stab. Bill had said Thursday—if Gilbert Garnish
gave him the job. But she wasn’t marrying Bill on Thursday, she was
marrying Lucas Dale. Something in her said “_I can’t_”. Something that
was stronger than that said “I must”.

At two o’clock on the Monday Lucas Dale rang up. He said,

“I’ve got everything fixed for ten o’clock on Thursday morning. Is Cathy
any better?”

“She hasn’t spoken yet. She sleeps a great deal.”

“Is that how she was before?”

“Yes.”

“May I send you some flowers—grapes—any other fruit?”

“No, thank you.”

He went on speaking because he could not bring himself to ring off with
that “No” in his ears.

“I made a new will this morning—just in case the bottom drops out of
things between this and Thursday. As a matter of fact it will hold good
afterwards, so Duckett says. You used to have to sign a will on your
wedding day, but nowadays a will made in contemplation of marriage holds
water all right. This is one of the good old-fashioned
everything-to-my-wife sort. There, that’s all—I just wanted you to
know.”

As the day wore on Cathy seemed better. She turned on her side and
slept. She had a little more colour.

Susan left the door open and went and lay down on her bed. She had not
thought that she would sleep, but she fell at once into deep
unconsciousness beyond the reach of dreams. She did not know that Mrs.
O’Hara came in and stood there looking at her in a good deal more
trouble than she had expressed for Cathy. Because Cathy had never been
strong, but Susan had never had a day’s illness in her life, and what
was the matter with her now? Cathy was always pale, but if Susan lost
her colour, there must be something dreadfully wrong, and if she didn’t
want to marry Bill Garrick, and did want to marry Mr. Dale, then why
should she lose her colour and go about the house saying “Yes, Aunt
Milly”, and “No, Aunt Milly”, and looking a great deal more like a ghost
than a girl? It was very uncomfortable indeed. Something would have to
be done about it—perhaps a friendly, tactful talk with Mr. Dale. “After
all, I _am_ in the position of Susan’s mother.”

Mrs. O’Hara returned to her sofa and considered the line to be adopted
by a tactful mother.

Susan waked to the sound of the telephone bell. She came back out of
blank and distant places and was aware of it first as an insistent
sound, and then as a summons. She went down into the dining-room and
shut the door. Fear went with her. Her heart beat suffocatingly as she
lifted the receiver and heard Bill’s voice.

“_Susan_——”

The one word told her that he had had her letter. She had wondered how
he would take it, and the word told her that too. He was taking it
fighting.

She must have made some sound. He said,

“I’ve only just had your letter. I’ve been out all day. What’s all this
infernal nonsense?” There was an effect of pure rage controlled to
words.

Susan said, “It’s no use—I can’t talk about it.”

“I haven’t the slightest desire to talk about it. I rang you up to tell
you I was coming down. It’s a quarter to four now. I shall be down by
six.”

He must have flung the receiver back. The line shocked and went dead.
Susan hung up and stood a long time staring at the wall. She ought to
have tried to stop him—she hadn’t tried—it wouldn’t have been any
good—you couldn’t stop Bill when he had made up his mind to do a thing.
A numbness came over her. It was nearly four o’clock.

She began to make Mrs. O’Hara’s tea.




                              CHAPTER XII


Bill Carrick stopped the car which he had borrowed from Ted Walters and
got out. There were no lights on this side of the Little House, and no
Susan at the gate. It hit him, but he didn’t stop to think about it. He
walked straight into the unlighted hall, where he stood and listened.
There was no sound of any kind. He went through the dining-room to the
kitchen and saw Susan standing there as white as paper. He shut the door
behind him and stood against it. Neither of them spoke, until at last he
said in the same rough tone which he had used over the telephone,

“What’s all this nonsense?”

Susan went back till she could lean against the dresser.

“You shouldn’t have come,” she said in a desolate tone.

“I have come. And you’ve got to explain. On Wednesday when I was down
here everything was all right—I was going to get Garnish’s job, and you
were going to marry me. Now I’ve got the job, and you’re going to marry
Dale. I suppose you don’t think that needs any explanation. I’m sorry,
but I don’t agree. I’ve come here to get an explanation, and I’m not
going away till I’ve got one. If you haven’t got a story ready, you’d
better do some quick thinking.”

Bill had never spoken to her like that in his life before. They had
disagreed and argued, they had quarrelled and made it up again, but he
had never looked as if he hated her before, never used that rough, cold
voice of sarcasm. It hurt unbelievably, but it steadied her. She said,

“It’s no use trying to explain. It was no use your coming down. We
mustn’t see each other, we mustn’t talk. It’s no use——”

He left the door and came towards her.

“Look here, Susan, if you think you can come that sort of thing over me,
you can’t! We’re engaged. If you want to break the engagement you can,
but you must tell me why.” He dropped his hands on her shoulders and let
them lie there heavy and strong. “Look at me!”

Susan looked at him. She did not know how wretched a look it was. The
hands that held her tightened.

“What’s the matter? What’s happened? You’ve got to tell me.”

“Bill, it’s no use. Oh, Bill—please go!”

“What’s the good of saying things like that? There’s something behind
this, and I’m going to know what it is. Are you going to look me in the
face and say that you care for this fellow?”

She went on looking, but she did not speak.

“Come along—say it! You wouldn’t marry a man you didn’t care for. Don’t
mind my feelings—they don’t matter to you any more. Go on—tell me you
love him—a little—much—passionately—not at all! Which of them is it?
Or shall I tell you that you don’t care a snap of your fingers about
him? Susan, you don’t—you _can’t_!”

She put up her hands and took him by the wrists to push him away.

“Stop! It’s no good, Bill.”

“Then you’ve got to tell me why.”

She freed herself.

“I can’t tell you why—I can’t tell you anything. We’re not engaged any
more. I can’t marry you—I’m going to marry him. That’s all there is to
say.” Her colour had risen, her breath came quickly. There was a
desperate sound in her voice.

Bill’s manner changed suddenly. The roughness went out of it. He said,

“Look here, Susan, this is no good. You were all right on Wednesday.
Something has happened since then, and you’re going to tell me what it
is. If you’ve fallen out of love with me you’ve only got to say so. If
you’ve fallen in love with him you’ve only got to tell me. But if you
love me and I love you, do you suppose for a moment that anything you
say or do is going to make me stand on one side whilst you marry him? I
don’t know what’s happened, but you’re not using your brain. Get on and
use it. You’re no fool, but you’re behaving like the village idiot. Drop
it, and tell me what’s been happening.”

Susan leaned back against the dresser.

“It won’t do any good.”

“It won’t do any harm.”

“I don’t know—it might. There’s Cathy——”

His face changed.

“Oh, Cathy’s in it, is she? How?”

“He said—she took—his pearls——”

“_What?_”

Susan looked at him in a lost sort of way.

“He said so.”

“What are you talking about?”

“He had them out on Wednesday. The Veres were there, and the Micklehams,
and Lydia. Cathy brought the pearls.”

“_What?_”

“The pearls—from his safe—in a tray. They are worth a lot of money.
There were some loose ones. Everyone said wasn’t he afraid to keep them
in the house, and he said no, he liked to have them there, even though
sometimes he didn’t look at them for months. Lydia and I got up to go.
He gave Cathy his keys and told her to put the pearls away. Lydia said
he had better count them——” Her voice went down into a whisper and
stopped.

“Go on.”

“On Saturday morning he rang up and said there was something wrong. I
went up. Cathy was there—you know how she is when she’s frightened. He
said she had taken some of the pearls—twenty loose ones and a string of
twenty-five that he had got to lengthen one of the other necklaces. He
said if she would give them back he wouldn’t prosecute. She was all to
bits. He said would I look for the pearls. I turned out Cathy’s bag—and
they were in the lining. Cathy fainted.”

“Susan!”

It was an extraordinary relief to speak—to tell Bill. She went on
telling him.

“He said it was a very bad case. He said anyone else in the house might
have been suspected. He said he must ring up the police. I told him
Cathy would die. He said it was his duty, but——”

“Go on,” said Bill.

She looked away.

“He said he wouldn’t prosecute his wife’s cousin——”

There was a pause. Susan felt herself gripped and held.

“Look at me!”

She looked, and saw a stranger. Bill would look like this in thirty
years time perhaps—features sharpened, lines bitten in, youth gone. It
frightened her, and the hard anger in his eyes set her heart beating.

“Blackmail! And you knuckled down to it!”

She said, “Cathy—the police—I couldn’t let him. That time the tramp
frightened her your father said it was touch and go. She’s upstairs now,
just lying there. She hasn’t spoken. It _would_ have killed her.”

“If she did it she’s better dead,” said Bill Carrick.

Susan cried out.

“She didn’t—she couldn’t!”

“Then who did? Dale—Dale himself? Had he made love to you—before this
happened?”

“Yes—he asked me to marry him—on Thursday.”

“And you said?”

Susan’s head came up.

“What do you think?”

“And then Cathy takes the pearls and they are found in her bag. That’s
damned convenient! And you walked right into the trap!”

“What could I do? I couldn’t kill Cathy.”

“You could have called his bluff. It was bluff all right. You don’t
imagine he would really have rung up the police, do you?”

“Oh, he would.”

“He wouldn’t. If he thought he’d a hold on you he wouldn’t have been in
a hurry to give it up. You’ve been a damned fool!” He caught her
suddenly in a hard clasp. “You can imagine a lot, can’t you? All right,
imagine that I’ll let you go to that swine! Go on—try hard! Oh, Susan,
you fool—you fool! You blasted _darling_ fool!”

Just for a moment Susan let herself go. The frightful strain and tension
eased. She had a flashing sense of relief. Right in the midst of
unimaginable darkness, thirst, and terror there was light—spring
water—comfort. The moment came and went, the flash died, the comfort
was gone. She lifted her head.

“Bill—I’ve promised——”

“You can’t keep that sort of promise.”

“He said, ‘Is that your word of honour?’—and I said ‘Yes’.”

Bill let go of her. She thought, “He’s letting me go.” And then she saw
his face set in hard, obstinate lines. His eyes, angry and determined,
held hers.

“Suppose you promised to murder someone—would you do it?”

“I shouldn’t promise.”

“That’s shuffling!” His voice was contemptuous. “Suppose you were my
wife—what would you have said then? Would you have let him blackmail
you into going to him?”

“Bill!”

“What’s the good of saying ‘Bill!’? And where’s the difference? Would
anyone say or think that a promise like that ought to be kept?”

She said in a fainting voice, “We’re—not—married,” and saw him whiten.

“And that’s all the tie you recognize—a legal tie, a physical one?
Nothing else—nothing sacred and binding between us? Are you going to
look at me and say that—and are you going to expect me to believe it if
you do?”

“Bill!”

He came quite close, but he did not touch her.

“Wake up! You’re going to marry me. If Dale or anyone else tries to butt
in he’ll get what’s coming to him.”

Behind him the door into the dining-room moved. The faint click of the
latch had passed unheard. Mrs. Mickleham stood with her hand on the knob
in a state of worried indecision. The Vicar had sent her—but on the
other hand—a private conversation—Bill Carrick—naturally very
upset—oh dear, dear, _dear_—really no attempt to keep his voice
down—anyone in the house might have heard him—and oh, really, he
_ought not_ to go up to King’s Bourne in such a state—very natural of
course, but most unwise, and sure to lead to a really terrible
quarrel—oh, _yes_—and Susan trying to stop him and keeping on saying
she had promised——

Inside the room Bill Carrick said with frightful distinctness,

“Do you want me to kill him, Susan? I think I’m going to.”




                              CHAPTER XIII


Mrs. Mickleham pushed the door wide open and stepped over the threshold.
She saw Susan holding Bill Carrick by the arm, and she saw Bill turn his
head and look at her standing there in the doorway. He was quite white,
and his eyes blazed. As soon as he saw her he twisted himself free and
rushed out through the scullery, slamming the door behind him. Susan
went back against the dresser and stood there shaking. She stared at
Mrs. Mickleham, but she didn’t seem to see her.

“My dear—my dear Susan—the Vicar sent me—but oh dear, I feel I am
intruding—only we were both so distressed—indeed he did not feel that
he could perform the ceremony—unless he felt assured that it was going
to be for your happiness, my dear—he had to go to Mrs. Brain, and he
thought perhaps you could talk more freely to me——”

Susan went on staring. Mrs. Mickleham’s voice was a long way off . . .
she was talking about someone being married. . . . It came to her that
Mrs. Mickleham was talking about the marriage of Susan Lenox and Lucas
Dale—and the Vicar was distressed—_the Vicar_—Lucas Dale. . . . Sharp
and clear on that the voice in which Bill had said, “Do you want me to
kill him? I think I’m going to.” _And she had let him go._

She put out her hands as if she was pushing something away and went
running through the scullery and out of the back door as Bill had done.

Mrs. Mickleham was left in a state of considerable agitation. If one
could only be sure that one had done the right thing—one tried, but oh
dear—and the Vicar had wanted her to come—a woman’s intuition—and of
course if old Mrs. Brain was really dying, he had to go to her—_oh
dear!_

She went slowly back into the hall. The drawing-room door was ajar and
she could see that the room was in darkness. Mrs. O’Hara must be in her
room. There was a light on the upper landing. She did not know whether
to go up or not. She listened, and could not hear anyone moving. A lorry
went by in the road. The Little House must be very noisy—only of course
there wasn’t much traffic—Mrs. O’Hara didn’t seem to mind—poor thing,
such an invalid—perhaps she was resting—better not disturb her—better
just slip away. . . . Mrs. Mickleham slipped away.

Susan went running and stumbling up the hill. She was so terrified and
confused that she hardly knew what she was doing. She only knew that
Bill was beside himself with anger, and that she had let him go to meet
Lucas Dale. It was quite dark in the orchard, but even in her confusion
her feet found their own way and brought her out from among the trees.
There was low cloud overhead, very little light from the sky, damp air
on her face.

She was just beyond the trees, when she heard a shot. It did not
frighten her at first. When you have lived in the country all your life
the sound of a stray shot is neither here nor there. She heard it, but
her mind had its own fear, the fear of Bill’s hands—his very strong
hands. She saw them striking Dale, flinging him down, closing about his
throat. The shot meant nothing to her at all.

She came to the paved terrace, as she had come to it on the Saturday
morning when Lucas Dale had let her in. There was a light in the study,
and as she saw that, she saw the curtain move, and the door. Bill
Carrick passed the lighted space and came out upon the terrace. She ran
to him.

“Bill!”

He caught her arm.

“What are you doing here? Come away!”

“Bill!”

“He’s dead.”

Susan heard the words as she had heard the shot. They began to draw
together in her mind. They didn’t mean anything yet.

Bill had his arm round her, hurrying her down the steps, across the
lower terrace, down the slope—down, down, and on amongst the trees.
They came to the garden of the Little House, to the back door, to the
dark scullery, and there stood. Bill said in a sharp whisper,

“Is she gone—Mrs. Mickleham?”

She said, “I’ll see.”

She went through the lower rooms. She listened in the hall. There was no
sound at all. She came back across the dining-room, shutting both the
doors behind her.

Bill Carrick was standing by the kitchen window. He turned, and the
light fell on his face. Until that moment Susan had not thought—there
had been no time to think. She had heard Bill say “He’s dead.” The words
were there in her mind, but she hadn’t begun to think about them. What
she had had to do was to run, to get back into the shelter of the Little
House, to make sure that Mrs. Mickleham was gone. Now these things were
done.

She looked at Bill, saw something in his face which she had never seen
there before, and with a dreadful rush thought began. Lucas Dale was
dead. She remembered the shot, and her knees began to shake. She took
hold of the edge of the kitchen table and leaned on it. Bill said,

“He’s dead.” And then, “I didn’t kill him.”

She said, “Who killed him?”

“I don’t know. He was lying there dead.”

Susan thought about that vaguely. She was shaking so much that she was
afraid she was going to fall. She said,

“You came out of the study——”

“Yes—I found the glass door open. Don’t you believe me?”

What were they saying to one another? What was between them? What had he
done?

He leaned across the table and spoke low.

“I wanted to kill him—I might have killed him—but I didn’t. You’ve got
to believe me.”

“I’ll try.”

That was all wrong—dreadfully wrong. You believe, or you don’t
believe—it’s no good trying. Her lips were quite dry. She moistened
them and said,

“Tell me.”

Bill put his hands over hers and pressed them down.

“If you don’t believe me, no one will. You’ve got to believe me. I heard
the shot. I went up to the house. There was a light in the study. I went
round to the side where Cathy has her table and looked in. One of the
windows was open and the curtain flapping. I could see the other
writing-table across the room. I couldn’t see Dale—only a hand and arm
stretched out along the carpet. I went back to the terrace. The glass
door was open. I went in, and there he was, fallen down behind the
writing-table. I went and looked at him. I didn’t know what to do. He’d
been shot through the head. There was a revolver on the writing-table. I
didn’t touch anything. I was trying to think what I ought to do, when I
heard someone on the terrace. I came out to see who it was, and when I
found it was you I lost my head. I only thought about getting you away.
I didn’t want you to get mixed up in it, and I didn’t want you to see
him. I ought to have sent you home and called up the police. I think I
ought to go back now.”

She shook her head.

“They’ll think you did it.”

“They’ll think so anyhow. Mrs. Mickleham heard me say I wanted to.
Susan, I’d better go back.”

“It’s too late.”

“I expect it is. I don’t want to say you were there.”

Susan was steadying.

“Bill, you heard the shot. I did, but I didn’t think it was anything. I
was just clear of the orchard. Where were you?”

“On the lower terrace. I didn’t go straight up to the house. That’s what
is going to look bad for me. If I’d gone straight to the house, I’d have
been there when the shot was fired. But I wasn’t—I wasn’t there. I was
on the lower terrace trying to get hold of myself a bit. You see, I did
want to kill him——”

“Bill!”

“So I had to get myself in hand. Then I heard the shot, and I stopped
where I was for about a minute, because I wasn’t sure where the sound
came from. It sounded awfully close. That was because the door was open.
I was listening for footsteps—anyone moving. When I couldn’t hear
anything I went on up to the house and looked in.”

“You didn’t see anyone or hear anyone?”

“No.”

“Could he have done it himself?”

“No, he couldn’t, Susan.”

Susan pulled her hands away and stood up.

“We heard the shot. Why didn’t anyone in the house hear it—why didn’t
they come?”

“I don’t know,” said Bill Carrick.




                              CHAPTER XIV


Ill news travels apace. By eight o’clock it would have been hard to find
anyone within a mile radius who did not know that Mr. Dale up at King’s
Bourne had been found murdered in his own study—“and Scotland Yard
called in, they do say.”

Mr. Pipe, the landlord of the Crown and Magpie, knew all about that. He
was a man of slow but interminable speech delivered weightily in a deep
booming voice, small and thin of person but mighty with the tongue.
There must have been times when he stopped talking to listen, for he was
always full of information, but behind his own bar he talked, and
listened to none. He knew all about the death of Lucas Dale and why
Scotland Yard had been called in.

“Shot right through the back of the head, he was, pore gentleman, and
dead as mutton. If all the best doctors in the kingdom had been called
in there wasn’t nothing they could have done for him. Alive and hearty
one minute, as it might be you or me, and shot down the next as if he
wasn’t no better than a rabbit. And when the police come they gets word
as nothing’s to be touched on account of Scotland Yard being called in.
And the reason for that, as I hear, is along of Colonel Rutland, the new
Chief Constable, being down with the influenza. Leastways some say it’s
that, and some say there’s other reasons—like them that’s suspected
being a bit too well known locally. And there’s others’ll tell you ’tis
because the ones they think done it belongs to London, and it stands to
reason that London police ’ud have a better chance of ferreting out
whatever it was as went before. We all know as you don’t just up and
murder a man on account of not liking the look of him. It’s bad feeling
and bitter ’atred as goes before murder, and no one won’t find out how
it was done without they find out where the ’atred was.”

“They say he was going to marry Miss Susan,” said a hefty young man who
was drinking beer.

“_And_ that’s nonsense, William Cole!” retorted a thin woman in a
draggled coat. “Everyone knows as Miss Susan and Mr. Bill’s been going
together for years. Pint of bitter, Mr. Pipe.”

William grinned.

“Have it your own way, but Mr. Dale, he come up and fixed with Vicar to
marry Miss Susan Thursday, and Vicar wasn’t none too pleased. Said just
what you say, that Miss Susan was going with Mr. Bill. And Mr. Dale, he
said, ‘Well, she’s marrying me on Thursday’. And that I heard with my
own ears on account of the window being open and me putting lime on the
rose-beds just outside.”

“Well then, I don’t believe it.”

“All right, you needn’t.”

“Next thing you’ll be saying is Mr. Bill shot him.”

“Not me—but the police will most likely.”

The talk went this way and that. Old Mr. Gill, whose grand-daughter was
kitchen-maid at King’s Bourne, said he did hear tell there was bad blood
between Mr. Dale and the American gentleman that was staying.

Mr. Pipe took up the tale again.

“There’s a good many of us could have something to say if it comes to
that. The one it’s most likely to be is the one you wouldn’t be likely
to think of, because it stands to reason if there was ’atred and ill
will right down here in Bourne, we’d know about it, wouldn’t we? It
stands to reason we would, for if there’s one thing more than another
that can’t be hid it’s ’atred.”

“Well, I’d ’ate a man as took my girl,” said William Cole.

The thin woman flashed round on him.

“What’s Mr. Bill done to you for you to keep picking on him?”

William grinned.

“He hasn’t done nothing to me. ’Twasn’t me as took his girl.”

Mr. Pipe’s voice boomed out.

“There’s ladies to be considered as well as men. ’Atred isn’t one of
those things as the men have got a prerogative for. Why, there was a
lady in here no later than this very afternoon round about five o’clock
or a bit later, and she had a double brandy, and the way she took it
off, well, you wouldn’t often see anything like it. And if I told you
what she said, well, you wouldn’t believe me, and if you would, it’s not
the time for me to be telling it. I don’t say as how she’s got anything
to do with Mr. Dale, and I don’t say as how she hasn’t, but I do say as
’atred will out.”

“It’s _murder_ will out,” said the thin woman.

“There’s no murder without ’atred,” said Mr. Pipe in a resounding voice.




                               CHAPTER XV


There is a routine which waits upon murder. It is a matter for the
expert—the police surgeon to say how a man has died, the police
photographer to fix that last dreadful pose, the finger-print expert.
They have their exits and their entrances, they do their part, and go
their way. The scene is cleared. The evidence remains to be dealt with.

At ten o’clock next morning Inspector Lamb was engaged in dealing with
it. He sat, a massive figure, at Lucas Dale’s writing-table. As he
flicked over the pages of his notebook, his large, florid face was as
nearly expressionless as a face could be. On the opposite side of the
table was a slim young man with a pale face and very pale hair worn
rather long and slicked very smoothly back. He had a pale blue eye, and
an oddly elegant air for a policeman. He was in fact Detective Sergeant
Abbott—Christian name Frank, but known among his intimates as Fug,
owing to an early passion for hair-oil. It was Inspector Lamb’s
considered opinion that there were worse young fellows at the Yard, and
that in time, and always provided he didn’t get above himself, there
might be the makings of a good officer in young Abbott. He sat back in
his chair and said,

“Get that butler in. I want to take him through his statement.”

He picked up a paper from the desk before him and ran his eye over it
whilst Abbott went to the nearer door and gave a message to the
constable on duty outside.

Raby came in. A thin man with a worried look, rather hollow in the
cheek, rather hollow about the eyes, rather white about the gills.

He said, “Yes, sir?” and was invited to sit down.

“Well now, Raby, we’re looking to you to give us all the assistance you
can.”

“Anything I can do, I’m sure.”

The man was nervous, but that was only natural.

“Well then, I’ve got your statement here, and I’d like just to go
through it with you. You say that you were crossing the hall at a
quarter past six last night, when you heard voices in this room. Now
just whereabouts were you when you stood and listened?”

“That’s not in my statement. I never said I stood and listened.”

Lamb gazed at him impassively.

“You must have done, or you couldn’t have heard what was said. What I
want to know is how close to the door you were, and which door it was.”

Raby swallowed.

“Was it the door you came in by just now?”

“Yes, sir.”

“How close were you?”

Raby swallowed again.

“I was bringing some logs along for the fire——”

“Do you generally bring the wood for the fire?”

“No, sir, but Robert was out.”

“Oh, yes—Robert is the footman. Just give me that list of the servants,
Abbott. . . . Robert Stack—footman. Where does he go when he’s out?”

“Ledcott, sir. His mother lives there.”

“The local people have checked up on him,” said Abbott. “He was there
from four to nine.”

Inspector Lamb glanced at the list in his hand.

“The rest of the staff consists of your wife, Mrs. Raby, Esther
Coleworthy and Lily Green, housemaids, and Doris Gill, kitchen-maid.
None of them were out?”

“No.”

Raby showed some relief at getting away from the study door.

“Yes, I see Mrs. Raby says in her statement that the three girls were
under her observation during the time between six o’clock and a quarter
to seven—when the body was found. They were, she says, in the servants’
hall listening to a band programme on the wireless. Now, Raby, we’ll
just get back to where you were. Which door were you at—this one here
behind me, or the one at the other end of the room?”

“It was this one.”

Relief had come too soon. They were back at the study door.

“And you were how close to it?”

“Well, I’d come right up to it with the wood, and then I heard them
quarrelling, and I didn’t like to go in.”

“So you stood there and listened. Well now, I’d like you to tell me just
what you heard.”

“It’s in my statement.”

“I’d like to have you tell me about it all the same. I’m not trying to
catch you, but sometimes a thing comes back to you that you’ve
overlooked.”

Raby looked unhappy. Out of the tail of his eye he could see that the
young man you would never think was a policeman had got a pencil in his
hand and a notebook ready, and the way things were shaping he’d have to
stand up in court and swear he had listened at the door. Murder didn’t
just kill one person, it could kill a man’s character too, and where was
he going to get another job after being mixed up in a murder case? He
took out his handkerchief and wiped his forehead.

“The first thing I heard was Mr. Dale using language.”

“What sort of language?”

Raby told him.

“And then I heard the American gentleman say——”

Inspector Lamb took a look at his list.

“Mr. Vincent C. Bell—been stopping here since Thursday. Ever stopped
here before?”

“No, sir.”

“Ever seen him before?”

“Not before Thursday.”

“All right, go on with what you heard him say.”

Raby looked apologetic.

“I wouldn’t listen in an ordinary way, sir, but the fact is I didn’t
know whether to go in or not. What with Mr. Dale using language like
that, and the American gentleman——”

“Did he use language too?”

“Not exactly. He called Mr. Dale a double-crossing, two-timing skunk.”

Abbott’s hand came up across his mouth.

“A nice distinction between language and epithet,” he murmured.

Inspector Lamb settled himself in his chair.

“And what did Mr. Dale say to that?”

“He swore, sir. And then I thought I’d better not stay, so I came away.”

“Now look here, Raby—you say they were swearing and flinging names. We
all know there are ways and ways of doing such things. It’s not the
words that count so much, it’s the way a man says them. All this that
you say you heard, well, it might have been said chaffing, as you might
say, or it might have been said in the way of two people having a
difference of opinion and not much in it—if a man’s got a habit of
using language, it mayn’t amount to much—or it might have been said in
real deadly earnest, and I want you to tell me which of these three
describes what you heard between Mr. Dale and Mr. Bell.”

Raby wiped his forehead.

“It was deadly earnest and not a doubt about it.”

“You’re sure of that?”

“Oh, yes, sir. Both gentlemen were very angry indeed—not a doubt about
it.”

“Well, go on. What did you do after you left the study door?”

“I went away, but I didn’t go farther than the other side of the hall,
because I didn’t like what I’d heard.”

“How long were you on the other side of the hall?”

“A minute or two. And then the study door opened and Mr. Bell came out
quick and slammed it behind him, and on through the hall and up the
stairs. I don’t think he saw me, sir.”

“Did you go in and attend to the fire?”

“Yes, sir. Mr. Dale was standing over by the glass door with his back to
me. He’d got the door a little bit open. He didn’t move or look round. I
made up the fire and came out.”

“If you came in by this door behind me here, you’d pass the
writing-table on your way to the fire. Did you see Mr. Dale’s revolver?”

“No, sir.”

“You knew he had a revolver, and where he kept it?”

The sweat came out on Raby’s forehead. He turned his handkerchief
between clammy hands.

“There wasn’t any secret about where he kept it. Everyone knew, sir. It
was in that drawer on your right—the second drawer.”

“Did he keep the drawer locked?”

Raby hesitated, and said,

“Sometimes.”

“You’ve seen it open?”

“Oh, yes, sir.”

“Was it open last night?”

“Yes, sir.”

“You mean the drawer was open?”

“Yes, sir—it was pulled out.”

“Did you see the revolver?”

“No, sir—I wasn’t noticing.”

“You mean you don’t know whether it was there or not?”

“I didn’t take any notice one way or the other—I wasn’t thinking about
it.”

Abbott wrote.

Inspector Lamb shifted heavily in his chair. He said in his
expressionless voice,

“Are you sure you saw Mr. Dale, and that he was alive when you went in?”

“Oh, yes, sir.”

“And when you came out?” Raby looked blank. “He was alive when you came
out again? You left him alive in the study?”

Raby looked completely horrified.

“Oh, yes, sir.”

“Did you notice what time it was?”

“It was nineteen minutes past six.”

“How do you know?”

“By the clock on the study mantelpiece, sir. I noticed it when I had
made up the fire.”

“And what did you do after that?”

“I went to my pantry until a quarter to seven, when I returned to the
study and found that Mr. Dale had been shot. Mr. Dale liked a cocktail
at that hour, and I was taking it to him.”

Lamb let him go. When the door had closed behind the butler he said,

“What d’you make of him?”

Abbott’s pale eyebrows rose.

“He’s nervous.”

The round brown eyes of Inspector Lamb had a faintly reproachful look.

“That’s natural,” he said. “You’d be nervous if you’d found your
employer murdered and weren’t sure whether the police were thinking of
putting it on you, let alone having to own up you’d been listening at
doors, which isn’t the best of manners for a butler.”

“Oh, quite—quite.”

“Well?”

“Well, that leaves from nineteen minutes past six till a quarter to
seven for someone to have come into the study and shot Dale with the
revolver which he kept in his writing-table drawer. Everyone in the
house seems to have known about it. It doesn’t take twenty minutes to
shoot a man, wipe the revolver, and melt from the scene. There was
plenty of time for our Mr. Vincent Bell to come back and finish his
quarrel. I wonder if he did. Are you going to have him in and ask him?”

“I think I’ll have the secretary first,” said Inspector Lamb.




                              CHAPTER XVI


Monty Phipson gazed earnestly, first at Inspector Lamb and then at Frank
Abbott. He wore an air of horrified interest blended with a desire to be
helpful, yet tinged—yes, quite definitely tinged with nervousness.
Abbott, staring coolly back, was reminded of a rabbit eyeing a specially
delectable piece of lettuce. The nose twitched with appetite, the
whiskers twitched with terror. Monty Phipson had in fact no whiskers,
but the illusion persisted.

Lamb took him through his statement. He had been upstairs in his room
from six o’clock till a quarter to seven. He had seen no one, and he had
heard nothing. His room was on the other side of the house. He had
written some letters, and then he had played some records over on his
gramophone. Just after a quarter to seven the butler came and told him
that Mr. Dale had been shot. He at once rang up the police.

“This matter of your not hearing the shot, Mr. Phipson—it seems to me
somebody ought to have heard it. Mrs. Raby and the maids had the
wireless on. Raby’s pantry is next door to the servants’ hall. He says
there was a band programme and they were getting it pretty loud. There’s
a baize door and a lot of hall and passage between this and the kitchen
wing. And you were playing over gramophone records. When did you start?”

Mr. Phipson removed his glasses, polished them, and replaced them on his
nose. A rabbit in pince-nez.

“Oh, well now, Inspector, I shall do my best to be accurate, but I
wasn’t looking at the time. It was six o’clock when I went to my room—I
do know that, because the grandfather clock in the hall was striking as
I went upstairs. And then—let me see—I wrote two letters—let us say
about ten minutes to each—and addressed the envelopes and stamped
them—so that would bring us to between twenty and twenty-five past six.
And then I got out a case of records and put on—now, let me see—it was
the finale of the Ninth Symphony.”

“A loud piece?”

Abbott cocked a pale eyebrow.

“A very loud piece, sir. Orchestra, chorus, four soloists—all going
full split. _Joie de vivre_ with the lid off—fully choral and
_fortissimo_. In fact, very loud. It really might drown the sound of a
shot.”

“We’ll try it out,” said Inspector Lamb.

“How many discs did you play?” said Frank Abbott.

Mr. Phipson looked nervously helpful.

“Well, I am not quite sure. There are three discs of the finale, and I
put on the first one, and then my mind rather wandered to one of the
letters I had written, so I let the record stop. In the end I re-wrote
the letter, and I can’t really say whether I turned the disc over or put
on the next one. I know this must sound very foolish and absent-minded,
but I was thinking about my letter, and I am afraid I did not notice
what I was doing. In fact, I was not really attending to the music—my
mind was on something else.”

“On Mr. Dale?” said the Inspector.

“Oh, no, no—not at all.”

“Would you care to tell us what you had on your mind?”

Mr. Phipson dropped his glasses and picked them up again.

“Well, really, Inspector, it was a private matter—a very private
matter—but if you will regard it as confidential——”

Inspector Lamb gazed at him with a kind of ponderous patience.

“As to that I can’t give any undertaking, Mr. Phipson. But a private
matter that hadn’t anything to do with Mr. Dale’s death—well, neither
Abbott nor me would mention it.”

Mr. Phipson drew an agitated breath.

“It is naturally painful to me to have to take strangers into my
confidence, but of course in a murder case I understand nothing is
sacred. The letter I have alluded to was to a young lady, and my mind
was a good deal disturbed over it. After re-writing it as I have told
you I was still not satisfied, and in the end I decided to destroy it.
You will now perhaps understand why I have no very accurate recollection
of the order in which I played those records.”

“Were you still playing them when Raby came to your room?” said Abbott.

A gleam brightened Mr. Phipson’s eyes behind the pince-nez.

“Yes—yes—I was playing the last side. I remember that distinctly.”

“There are three discs, aren’t there?”

“Yes, yes—six sides. Marvellous music!”

“They would take a good twenty minutes to play even if you missed one
side of the first disc. And you wrote a letter too.”

“I may have missed more than one disc,” said Mr. Phipson in a dejected
manner. “It is more than probable—in fact, I think I must have done so.
With the interval I have already mentioned, I suppose I was playing from
about five-and-twenty past—no, no, it would be a little later, wouldn’t
it—I know the importance of being accurate—shall we say twenty-seven
minutes past?” His nose twitched in a worried manner. “I am afraid I
find it very difficult to fix the exact time, Inspector, because you
see, I cannot be certain how long it took me to write those letters, but
perhaps half past six—no, no, I think earlier than that—this is really
very difficult——”

Of all witnesses, the nervously conscientious witness is the least dear
to the official heart. Interminable delays, small verbal quibblings,
acute attacks of conscience over minor details have a very rasping
effect upon the temper. Inspector Lamb said,

“We’ll leave that for the moment, Mr. Phipson. How long have you been
with Mr. Dale?”

“Three years—no, let me see, that is not quite exact—it would have
been three years next Thursday.”

“But Mr. Dale had not been here for three years.”

“Oh, no, Inspector. When I took up my duties he was in London. And then
we travelled. He was very fond of travelling. I accompanied him to Egypt
and to South Africa. Then about a year ago he bought King’s Bourne. Mr.
Bourne the late owner had just died. Mr. Dale decided to have the whole
place done up, and I was backwards and forwards a great deal seeing to
things. Mr. Bourne’s widowed sister, Mrs. O’Hara, was living here with
her daughter Miss Cathleen O’Hara and her niece Miss Susan Lenox. Mr.
Dale wished her to have any furniture that she fancied, and I was to see
about that, and about doing up the house she was moving into. It is
called the Little House, and it is just at the foot of the garden here.
Mr. Dale was most considerate about the whole thing—really most
considerate.”

“Is that the Miss O’Hara who has been employed as a secretary here?”

A slight flush came into Mr. Phipson’s face.

“_Social_ secretary—yes. Not, of course, that I couldn’t have done all
that was necessary in that way, but—well, to speak quite frankly—I
suppose I had better speak frankly——”

“Much better,” said Inspector Lamb with a sudden dry sound in his voice.

Mr. Phipson looked at him over the top of his pince-nez.

“Well then, I think Mr. Dale was glad to put the employment in her way.
Mr. Bourne died in embarrassed circumstances, and there was very little
left for the family. And then, of course, there was his feeling for Miss
Lenox.”

“And what sort of feeling was that?”

Mr. Phipson looked arch.

“Oh, the usual one, Inspector. Mr. Dale made no secret of it. It really
was quite obvious from the first, but of course the news of the
engagement did come as a surprise to us here in the house—I don’t think
it can have got very much beyond the immediate household, because he
only informed us yesterday.”

“Mr. Dale was engaged to Miss Lenox?”

“So he informed us yesterday—let me see—it was just before tea. And of
course it was a surprise, because Miss Lenox was engaged to Mr.
Carrick.”

Lamb put up a monumental hand.

“I’d like to know about this engagement to Mr. Carrick. Who is he?”

Mr. Phipson explained with gusto. Mr. Carrick was the son of the late
Dr. Carrick, deceased some two years ago. He had been engaged to Susan
Lenox for about that length of time. He was an architect with his way to
make. He had done some work on the alterations to King’s Bourne.

Mr. Phipson took much longer over it than that, but the Inspector
suffered him with patience.

“And when was this engagement broken off?”

Monty Phipson assumed the air of a man of the world.

“As far as my information goes—well, it never was broken off—the lady
just changed her mind. Very suddenly, Inspector. Mr. Carrick was
certainly down staying at the Little House last Wednesday night, and of
course they may have quarrelled then, or they may not. But from certain
indications I believe—but perhaps I ought not to indulge in
conjecture——”

“I think you had better finish what you were going to say.”

“If it will be of any help—I am most anxious to assist you in every
possible way. I was going to say that Miss O’Hara was taken ill here on
Saturday morning, and that Miss Susan Lenox was here for some time,
after which Mr. Dale took them both home in the Daimler. From certain
indications of emotional disturbance I am of the opinion that Mr. Dale
had at that time proposed and been accepted.”

The Inspector slewed round to the table and picked up one of the papers
which lay there. He said “Yes——” in a meditative tone and faced round
again upon the secretary.

“What do you know about Mr. Vincent Bell?”

Monty Phipson put up a deprecating hand.

“Very little, I assure you—very little indeed.”

“As what, Mr. Phipson?”

“Let me see—he arrived here on Thursday morning quite unexpectedly——”

“Mr. Dale didn’t expect him?”

“As to that I cannot say, but if you would like me to express an
opinion——”

Frank Abbott drew a long breath and permitted himself to gaze at the
ceiling.

Lamb said imperturbably, “Let us have your opinion.”

Monty Phipson edged a little forward in his chair.

“Well, in my opinion Mr. Dale was taken completely by surprise, and it
was not a very pleasant surprise either. Mr. Bell just said he was
stopping—and he stopped.”

“What sort of terms were they on?”

“Well, I hardly like to say. I naturally feel the responsibility of
giving evidence like this, and I am most anxious to be fair. I think I
might say that there was a good deal of tension. Mr. Bell’s manner was
not very tactful. I think he and Mr. Dale had had some business
association in the United States. I believe Mr. Dale was engaged
in—well, Inspector, in rum running during the prohibition period. If I
had not had some idea of this before, I should have guessed as much from
Mr. Bell’s allusions and hints. Mr. Dale resented them a good deal, and
several times I thought there was going to be a quarrel, but Mr. Bell
would always laugh it off.”

“I see. Well now, Mr. Phipson, how did you and Mr. Dale get along?”

The question, in this homely shape, did not seem to worry Mr. Phipson.
He looked conscientious and said,

“Oh, I hope he had no cause to be dissatisfied.”

“That’s no answer, Mr. Phipson. I don’t want to know what you hope. The
question is, was he satisfied?”

An air of offence became evident.

“_Really_, Inspector, I am being most careful about my answers. Mr. Dale
had no reason to be dissatisfied—no reason at all. If you want to know
whether he _was_ satisfied, I can only say that he gave me no reason to
think otherwise.”

The Inspector opened his mouth to speak and shut it again. His right
shoulder jerked slightly.

Frank Abbott took up the tale.

“What was Dale like to work for? Easy—considerate—difficult?”

Monty Phipson looked at him coldly.

“My position was an extremely confidential one. Such a position is never
without occasional difficulties. I think I may say that Mr. Dale
appreciated that.”

Abbott’s left eyebrow twitched.

“Hang it all, man, you’re talking like a book! Did you like Dale? That’s
what we want to know—did you like him?”

A pale, ugly flush suffused Mr. Phipson’s features, particularly the
nose which reminded young Abbott so strongly of a rabbit’s. He said in a
huffy, stuffy voice,

“I was with Mr. Dale for three years. The relations between us were of a
perfectly satisfactory nature.”




                              CHAPTER XVII


Vincent Bell came into the room with a brisk and jaunty air. His eyes
went to and fro, his black hair stood up aggressively. He sat down with
an air of assurance and addressed himself to Inspector Lamb.

“Well, Captain, what can I do for you?”

“You can answer some questions, Mr. Bell.”

“That’s all right by me.”

Inspector Lamb was being careful. He said,

“You understand that you are not obliged to answer? I’d like to make
that clear.”

“I’m not obliged to talk, but I can if I like?”

“That’s right, Mr. Bell.”

“All right, Captain, shoot!”

“Well then, Mr. Bell, perhaps you’ll give us an idea of what your
business was with Mr. Dale.”

“Well, I don’t know that it was exactly business.”

“But you had had business relations with him.”

Vincent Bell’s eyes snapped.

“Dale’s secretary been talking? Well, I won’t deny it.”

“Rum running or something of that sort?”

Vincent Bell laughed.

“Something of that sort,” he agreed.

“Well, that’s nothing to do with us over here, but if you and Mr. Dale
came to loggerheads about it——”

Lamb made a suggestive pause.

“Well, I won’t say we didn’t. But that’s not to say I’d take the trouble
to come over here and shoot him, because if I’d wanted to put him on the
spot I could have done it three years ago without travelling three
thousand miles.”

Frank Abbott looked up from his shorthand notes.

“But you did come three thousand miles. Why?”

Vincent Bell grinned.

“I’d a notion it might be worth my while. Look here, boys, I’m not
holding up on you. The truth is Dale got away with a helluva lot of
money that was half of it mine. I was sick, and he collected and walked
out on me—thought I was going to die and there would be no questions
asked. Well, I didn’t die, but what with one thing and another I wasn’t
in a position to follow him up for a year or two, and then it took a bit
of time before I hit his trail.”

Inspector Lamb put up a hand.

“You came over here to try and recover a sum of money from Mr. Dale?”

“You can put it like that.”

“Did you come over here to threaten him?”

Vincent laughed.

“I came to get my money.”

“How did you expect to get it?”

“Not by shooting him. That wouldn’t make sense, would it? How much money
can you get from a guy with a bullet in his brain? I wanted my money,
and the way things are I don’t get a cent. I guess that lets me out.”

Inspector Lamb leaned forward. He said in a weighty voice,

“You were heard quarrelling with Mr. Dale at a quarter past six. He was
shot some time between then and a quarter to seven when the butler found
him dead. What have you got to say about that?”

For the moment Mr. Bell hadn’t anything to say. There was a noticeable
alteration in his colour. He looked here and there, and in the end flung
out a hand.

“That puts me in a spot. But I didn’t shoot him. You don’t shoot a guy
because you have a quarrel with him. I wasn’t watching the time, but if
someone heard us talking at a quarter past six, it wasn’t much after
that when I quit and went upstairs, and Dale was alive then. I left him
right here in this room. He’d his back to me and he was going over to
that glass door. We’d both got a bit heated, and I guess he meant to
open it. It was found open.”

“It was open when he was found,” said Lamb, varying the order of the
words. “Well, Mr. Bell, what did you do next?”

“I went upstairs to my room, and then I took a bath.”

“Can you fix the time you were in the bath?”

Vincent shrugged his shoulders.

“If I’d known Dale was going to be murdered I’d have kept right on
looking at my watch and I wouldn’t have taken a bath. I’d have gone and
sat with that secretary guy so I’d have a nice water-tight alibi. That’s
the worst of not being the murderer. It’s just too bad. All I can tell
you is I was out of my bath and part way dressed when Raby gave the
alarm, and that was round about a quarter to seven.”

“And you didn’t hear the shot?”

“I wouldn’t have heard twenty shots,” said Vincent Bell. “I guess the
plumbing in this house is pretty old. When you’ve got a tap turned on
it’s bad enough, but when you turn it off—well, it’s like the Fourth of
July.”

“Noises in the pipes?”

“I’ll say so.”

Inspector Lamb’s round brown eyes dwelt upon Vincent Bell. Mr. Bell
sustained the look. He even grinned, and said,

“Try them for yourself, Captain.”

The Inspector frowned.

“Everyone in this house has got a reason for not having heard that shot.
I can believe one or two of them, but I can’t believe them all.”

Vincent Bell laughed cheerfully.

“Mine’s O.K. whatever the others are,” he declared.

He went out as briskly as he had come in, and at that moment the
telephone bell rang.

Inspector Lamb lifted the receiver and heard an indisputably clerical
voice say,

“Is that King’s Bourne? Is that Raby?”

“Detective Inspector Lamb speaking.”

There was a clerical cough.

“Oh, yes. Good-morning, Inspector. My name is Mickleham—the Reverend
Cyril Mickleham—and I am the Vicar of this parish.”

“Yes, sir?”

There was another cough.

“Well, Inspector—er—the fact is my wife, Mrs. Mickleham, has some
information which I feel it is her duty to—er—place at your disposal.
It is very painful to us both, but private feelings must not be allowed
to interfere with public duties.”

“Well, sir, if Mrs. Mickleham has any information to give us, I shall be
glad if she could make it convenient to call here as soon as possible.”

“Exactly—there is no time like the present. We can be with you in
twenty minutes, if that will be all right.”

Lamb hung up and hunched a shoulder.

“Vicar’s wife, with evidence—coming along now. We can be trying out Mr.
Bell’s water-pipes and Mr. Phipson’s records.”




                             CHAPTER XVIII


The pipes amply substantiated Vincent Bell’s account of their
activities. As soon as any water had been run off there was such a
gurgling, banging and groaning as would have camouflaged a royal salute.

Raby deposed to having heard the sounds from his pantry.

“A shocking noise they do make, and no mistake about it, sir. The pipes
come down beside my sink, and there are times when they bang so loud
you’d think they’d burst. They weren’t as bad as that last night, but
round about half past six they were at it for a matter of ten minutes or
so. There isn’t anyone can have a bath in this house without its being
known. Very put out about it, Mr. Dale was, and meaning to have the old
pipes out and a new lot put in. He only spoke of it yesterday, sir, and
said if he went abroad on his honeymoon, it could be done very
convenient whilst he was away.”

Tests with the records in Mr. Phipson’s room went to show that a shot
fired in the study could not be heard during any of the louder passages,
and that with the door and window shut and the curtains drawn it would
be extremely likely to pass unnoticed at any time. In the servants’ hall
it was quite inaudible, even without a band programme on the wireless.

Lamb led the way back to the study, sat down at the table, and said,

“Carry on, Abbott. What do you make of it?”

Frank Abbott sat on the corner of the table and swung an elegantly
trousered leg.

“No one has a motive,” he said. “Everyone has lots of opportunity.
Nobody has an alibi.”

Lamb grunted.

“Bell had it in for him all right.”

“I don’t fancy Bell, but let’s say he had half a motive. Opportunity and
alibi as before.”

The Inspector grunted again, but this time produced no words. Frank
Abbott carried on.

“Opportunity—Raby said he was in the pantry from just after twenty past
six to a quarter to seven. We have only his own word for it that he left
Dale alive. He could have shot him when he came to make up the fire,
_or_ he could have come back from the pantry and done it, _or_ he could
have taken in the cocktail and done it then. Opportunity for Raby
practically unlimited. Motive, as already stated, none. Alibi
practically non-existent—Mrs. Raby says she called out to him in the
pantry somewhere round about half past six and he answered her.

“Now for the secretary. There’s no motive so far as we know, and he
loses his job. There’s no alibi of any sort, kind or description. He
says he was playing gramophone records and writing letters. Perhaps he
was, perhaps he wasn’t. The discs were lying about in his room, and the
last one was still on the gramophone—he was playing it when Raby came
up. He did write letters. There was one for the post addressed to a firm
of sanitary engineers in Ledlington, and there were torn-up pieces of
something discreetly affectionate in his waste paper basket. He gets so
tangled up when he’s trying to be accurate that it’s no good trying to
trip him—he keeps on doing it himself. I don’t know whether you could
make head or tail of his times, but I couldn’t, and I don’t believe he
could either. I was left with the feeling that he might have
disentangled himself from the Ninth Symphony and his correspondence,
hared downstairs shot Dale, and got back in time to listen to the final
panegyric of joy. Only why in heaven’s name should he shoot him?”

There was no answer.

At this moment the young constable on duty outside the door opened it
and ushered in the Vicar, his cheerful rosy face composed as for a
funeral, and Mrs. Mickleham who looked as if she had been crying for
hours. She still most incredibly resembled a hen, but a hen with
dejected and ruffled feathers. Her long neck poked, her hair was in
wisps under a crooked hat, her eyelids were red and swollen, the ridge
of her bony nose scarlet. She held a pocket handkerchief tightly clasped
in a black gloved hand. As she sank into the chair recently vacated by
Vincent Bell she pressed the linen to her lips and heaved a heart-broken
sigh.

Frank Abbott, having provided the Vicar with a chair, sat down at the
far side of the table and opened his notebook. The Vicar cleared his
throat.

“My wife is very much distressed, but I have told her that her duty is
clear. Perhaps you will allow me to explain. Does the name of Miss Susan
Lenox convey anything to you?”

Inspector Lamb picked up a sheet of paper from the table.

“Niece of the late owner of King’s Bourne, now resident with her aunt,
Mrs. O’Hara, at the Little House, Netherbourne.”

“Exactly, Inspector. Miss Lenox is a very charming girl whom I have
known since she was quite a child. For the past two years she has been
engaged to William Carrick, the son of our late doctor—a very great
loss and much respected. William Carrick is an architect by profession,
and I have looked forward very pleasantly to marrying these young people
as soon as William’s circumstances became such as to enable him to
support a wife. Imagine my surprise and consternation when I received a
visit yesterday afternoon from Mr. Dale, in the course of which he
informed me that he and Susan Lenox intended to be married on Thursday,
and that he had just been making the necessary arrangements for a
licence. His call was for the purpose of asking me to perform the
ceremony. I could hardly believe my ears, and I felt that I must
communicate as soon as possible with Miss Lenox. I really found it
impossible to believe her capable of terminating a two years engagement
for the purpose of entering so precipitately into marriage with a
stranger. I was deeply concerned, not only as her parish priest but as
an old friend.”

Inspector Lamb said, “Quite so.”

The Vicar put up a hand.

“Permit me to continue. I thought it inadvisable to use the telephone to
discuss so confidential a matter. The amount of gossip in a village is
deplorable—quite deplorable. I made it the subject of my Lenten sermons
last year under such headings as Evil Speaking, Lying, Slandering,
etcetera——But I must not digress. I was about to sally forth to the
Little House, when I received a very urgent call to a dying parishioner
at Ledcott. I therefore asked my wife to go and see Miss Lenox and
ascertain the real facts from her. In a way, I felt perhaps that a
woman’s intuition——”

A smothered sob from Mrs. Mickleham broke the thread of what had begun
to sound ominously like a sermon.

Inspector Lamb turned to the afflicted lady.

“Perhaps you would tell us the rest yourself, Mrs. Mickleham.”

The hand with the crumpled handkerchief returned to her lap, where it
was tightly clasped by its fellow. In the wretched voice of one who has
got a most repugnant lesson by heart, she said,

“I went to the Little House and I walked in—we know them so very well
that I usually just walk in. There was a light upstairs, but it was dark
in the hall. The drawing-room door was ajar, and I knew there was no one
there because the room was dark, so I opened the dining-room door and
went through to go to the kitchen. Susan does all the cooking, so I
thought she might be there——”

“One moment, Mrs. Mickleham—what time was this?”

Mrs. Mickleham sniffed miserably.

“I left the Vicarage at six o’clock, and it takes about twenty minutes.”

“And what time was Mr. Dale’s visit?”

“He was with me from half past three until ten minutes to four,” said
the Vicar. “We were expecting a guest to tea, or I would have gone to
see Miss Lenox immediately. By the time our guest had gone I had
received the urgent summons I told you of. It was then, I think, about a
quarter to six.”

Inspector Lamb returned to Mrs. Mickleham.

“So you reached the Little House at about twenty past six?”

Mrs. Mickleham caught her breath.

“Oh, I think so—but then I stopped for a moment to ask Mrs. Stock about
her little boy with the whooping cough, so it must have been later than
that.”

“Very well, will you go on? You went through the dining-room to go to
the kitchen because you thought Miss Lenox might be there.”

“Oh, _yes_,” said Mrs. Mickleham. “There was a light under the door and
I could hear them talking. I really did not know what to do—whether to
go back—but then the Vicar had expressly charged me——”

“What did you do, Mrs. Mickleham?”

“I stood still and tried to make up my mind——”

“One moment—do you know who it was in the kitchen?”

“Oh, yes—it was Susan Lenox and Bill Carrick. And I could not help
hearing what he said—he was speaking so loudly. And of course one
couldn’t be surprised—after being engaged for two years, and the change
so _dreadfully_ sudden.”

The Inspector leaned forward.

“Do you mean that Mr. Carrick and Miss Lenox were quarrelling?”

“Oh, no, no—I don’t think so—it wasn’t like that at all. Poor Susan
kept saying things like ‘I must’ and ‘I’ve promised’, and Bill was
saying he wouldn’t let her, and things about going up to King’s Bourne
and—and having it out with Mr. Dale. And I thought how dreadful if he
went up there in the state of mind he was in, so I opened the door
and—and——” The tears began to well from Mrs. Mickleham’s eyes and her
voice failed.

“Come, come, Lucy.” The Vicar laid an admonitory hand on her shoulder.
“My dear, control yourself. You must tell the Inspector what you heard
William say.”

“I _can’t_.”

“You can do your duty, my dear, and I am sure that you will.”

Mrs. Mickleham leaned back and closed her reddened eyelids upon the
welling tears. She spoke in an exhausted voice.

“He said—oh dear, I heard him say—oh dear, I wish I hadn’t, but he
said—he said—— ‘Do you want me to kill him, Susan?’ Oh dear! And then
he said, ‘I think I’m going to.’ And I pushed open the door, and as soon
as he saw me he pulled away from Susan and rushed out through the
scullery.”

“Did you see where he went?”

“Oh, no—it was quite dark. But I could hear him running up the garden.”

“Would that be the way to King’s Bourne?”

“It would be the nearest way,” said the Vicar.

“Oh _dear_!” said Mrs. Mickleham.

“What happened after that?”

“Oh, I don’t know. Poor Susan looked as if she was going to faint. I
tried to explain to her why I had come, but I don’t think she was
listening to me—she seemed too much distressed. And all at once she ran
out through the scullery after Bill, and there didn’t seem to be
anything to stay for then, so I came away.”

“Thank you, Mrs. Mickleham. I suppose you didn’t notice the time whilst
you were in the kitchen? I should like it a little more exact than we’ve
got it yet.”

“Oh, _yes_,” said Mrs. Mickleham. “And I always notice a clock. One does
if one leads a very busy life. I’m sure I don’t know where I should be
if I let myself get behind. And the clock is on the dresser—just
opposite the door.”

“Then you noticed the time as you came in?”

“Oh, _yes_—it was three minutes to the half hour.”

“Good,” said the Inspector. “Then Mr. Carrick started up the hill to
King’s Bourne at twenty-seven minutes past six. And how long would it
take him to get there? What’s the distance?”

“Four hundred yards to the front door,” said Mr. Mickleham with a faint
air of superiority. “I carry a pedometer—a hobby of mine. I believe I
could tell you the exact distance between any two points in my parish.”

Lamb’s gaze dwelt upon him for a moment and then withdrew.

“Four hundred yards—mostly up hill—he was in a hurry. . . . Say three
and a half minutes. Now how long were you talking to Miss Lenox before
she followed Mr. Carrick?”

“I don’t know, I’m sure. Oh, yes, I do, because I looked at the clock
when she had gone, and I thought I had better not wait.”

“And what time was it?”

“Just the half hour—oh, yes.” She began to dab her eyes and straighten
her hat.

“He’d three minutes start of her, and he’d go quicker. Three minutes
start. . . . Thank you, Mrs. Mickleham.”

When they had gone he looked up the number of the Little House and asked
for it.

“Can I speak to Miss Susan Lenox?”

“I am Susan Lenox.”

“Detective Inspector Lamb speaking from King’s Bourne. I should be glad
if you would come up here as soon as possible. I think you may be able
to give us information which we shall be glad to have. Can you tell me
where Mr. Carrick is?”

“He is here.”

“I shall be glad to see him too. Can you come up now?”

Susan Lenox said, “Yes.”




                              CHAPTER XIX


“Going to see them together?” said Frank Abbott.

Lamb nodded.

“Queer set-out. Looks like the girl’s been playing tricks, throwing a
poor man over for a rich one, and the fat in the fire. Yes, we’ll see
them together. It’s how they are together will tell us what we want to
know. Here, Abbott, you stand ready by that glass door and let them in
that way. I’ve got a notion that may show us something too.”

As they crossed the lower terrace, Susan said,

“I’m going to tell the truth, Bill.”

“How much of it?” His tone was grim.

“Not Cathy, or the pearls—I can’t.”

“All right. They’ll want to know why you were going to marry him.”

“Bill!”

“He’d been to old Mickleham. It’s bound to come out. Of course you could
say you didn’t know anything about it.”

“They wouldn’t believe that.”

“They might.”

“Mrs. Mickleham heard us talking. Oh, Bill—she heard what you said!”

“Do you think she’ll tell?”

“Cyril will make her,” said Susan with wretched conviction.

“All right, we’ll tell the truth. Let’s hope we shame the devil.”

As they came up the terrace steps they saw Frank Abbott at the open
glass door, and he saw them. His light eyes looked them over as he
beckoned them in. Not the sort of girl you’d expect. Nice chap. I
suppose he did it, poor devil. He shut the door behind them and saw them
to their chairs. They were both pale. Bill Carrick steady and composed.
Susan fine-drawn, the contours of brow and chin emphasized, lips parted,
nostrils taut. Frank Abbott thought, “She’d be lovely with a colour”;
and then, “She’s lovely now.”

Inspector Lamb’s ox-like gaze dwelt first on Bill and then on Susan. He
had three daughters of his own, and was sometimes put to it to conceal a
most obstinate softness of heart where girls were concerned. Miss Susan
Lenox appeared to be of the same age as his Margy. He felt it a
handicap, frowned portentously, and addressed himself to Bill.

“Mr. Carrick, we have certain information which I will ask you to
confirm. Until recently you and Miss Lenox were engaged to be married?”

Bill looked him in the eye.

“Miss Lenox and I have been engaged for two years. We are still
engaged.”

“Yesterday afternoon Mr. Lucas Dale called upon the Vicar of this parish
and asked him to officiate at his marriage to Miss Lenox on Thursday
next——”

Susan said quickly and breathlessly,

“It was a dreadful mistake.”

“You mean that Mr. Dale was mistaken in thinking that you would marry
him?”

Susan became even paler, and said, “No.”

“Had you quarrelled with Mr. Carrick, and engaged yourself to Mr. Dale
on the rebound, as it were?”

Frank Abbott’s hand covered his mouth for a moment. Old Lamb and his
“rebound”! Something queer behind all this—something very queer.

Susan said, “No.”

“Now, Miss Lenox, you know you needn’t answer any of these questions.
We’re not in court, and there’s no charge——” He paused and added
“_yet_. But I’ll tell you one thing—if you or Mr. Carrick have got your
reasons for being afraid of the law, then you’ll do best to say no more
than you need. But if you’ve no reason to be afraid of the truth coming
out, then the more you help us the more we can help you. We’re not out
to hound people down, we’re out to get at the truth. In trying to get at
it we’ve got to ask all sorts of questions about people’s private
affairs. It isn’t pleasant for you and it isn’t pleasant for us, but
it’s got to be done. Anything you tell us that hasn’t got to be used as
evidence—well, it’ll be as private as if you only knew it yourself. If
you don’t tell us what we want to know, we’re bound to try and find it
out, and that means raking round and stirring up the mud. Now are you
going to be frank and tell us why you broke off your engagement to Mr.
Carrick and when—particularly when?”

Susan had lifted startled eyes to his face. She looked now at Bill. He
nodded. She drew a long, difficult breath.

“I’ll tell you as much as I can. There wasn’t any quarrel. Bill and
I——” Her voice faltered, but she went on gallantly. “It’s always been
Bill and I. Then Mr. Dale came here. He wanted to marry me. I said no.
He knew I was engaged to Bill.” For a moment her colour flamed. “He said
he always got what he wanted. He found a way to threaten
someone—I—cared for. Not Bill—it was nothing to do with Bill.”

“You say he was blackmailing you?”

Susan drew another long breath.

“I suppose so. I said—I would—do it.”

“You agreed to marry him?”

“Yes.”

“When was this?”

“Saturday.”

“And you wrote to Mr. Carrick. He got the letter on Monday morning and
came down to forbid the banns. Is that right?”

Bill said, “Yes.”

“When did you get here, Mr. Carrick?”

“Soon after six. I didn’t get the letter until late—I’d been out all
day.”

“Well, you got down here, and you had a scene with Miss Lenox in the
kitchen at the Little House. Mrs. Mickleham walked in on the end of it.”

“Yes—I left.”

“She says you were declaring your intention of going up to King’s Bourne
and having it out with Mr. Dale, and Miss Lenox was begging you not to
go and saying she had promised. Is this correct?”

“Yes.”

“She states that she heard you say, ‘Do you want me to kill him, Susan?
I think I’m going to.’ Is this also correct?”

“It was what I was feeling like,” said Bill. “I suppose I said it. But I
didn’t kill him, Inspector. He was dead when I got here.”

There was a momentary pause. Lamb looked at him and said,

“You did come here then?”

“Oh, yes, I came. I’ll tell you if I may.” He glanced at Abbott. “He can
take it down. I’ve nothing to hide—I’d rather say just what happened. I
ran out of the house and up the hill as hard as I could go till I got to
the second terrace. Then I stopped because I realized that I’d got to
pull myself together. Whilst I was standing there I heard the shot. I
wasn’t sure where the sound came from at first. Then I went on up to the
house. I came up the steps at the end of the terrace by the corner of
the study. One of those windows in the recess over there was open and
the curtain drawn back. I could see the light. I went and looked in——”

“Why did you do that?”

“I don’t know. I think I wanted to see if he was there, and if he was
alone. I saw his hand and arm stretched out on the floor. I don’t know
how long I stood there. It was—a shock—because I—had wanted to kill
him. I thought about the shot. I thought perhaps he had killed himself.
After a bit I went back on to the terrace. The glass door was open——”

“One minute, Mr. Carrick—as you came up the steps on to the terrace the
glass door would be in front of you on your left, and the windows of the
recess still more to your left and at right angles?”

Bill nodded and said “Yes.”

“Very well, when you came up the steps you noticed that the window in
the recess was open. Was the glass door open too?”

“I didn’t notice it.”

“It was nearer to you than the window was—would you not have noticed
it?”

“I don’t know. I didn’t.”

“Yet you noticed it at once when you came back. Do you think it possible
that it was not open when you came up the steps, though it was open when
you came back after looking in at the window?”

“I don’t know—I just didn’t notice. As soon as I saw the door was open
I went in. Do you want me to tell you what I saw?”

“If you please, Mr. Carrick.”

“Dale was lying face downwards behind the writing-table. It was his left
hand and arm I had seen from the window. The right was doubled up under
him. He had been shot through the back of the head. The chair you are
sitting in was pushed back, and the second drawer on the right of the
table was open. There was no sign of a struggle. There was a revolver
lying across the corner of the blotting-pad on this side. I came as far
as the end of the table and stood there for a bit. I thought I ought to
give the alarm, but I—well, I funked doing it. Then I heard someone on
the terrace and went out. It was Susan. When I saw her the only thing I
thought about was keeping her out of it. I told her Dale was dead, and I
took her back to the Little House. That’s all, sir.”

“You say there was a revolver on the table. Did you touch it?”

“I didn’t touch anything.”

“Ever see the revolver before?”

“No.”

“Did you know Mr. Dale had a revolver?”

“I don’t know—Susan says I must have—she says everyone knew.”

Frank Abbott’s lips drew together as if he were about to whistle. No
sound issued from them, but in his own mind he rendered the opening
phrase of Chopin’s Funeral March.

Lamb said a thought gruffly,

“Did you know where he kept it?”

“He _didn’t_,” said Susan—“not till I told him. Oh, he didn’t really!”

Lamb looked at her for quite a long time. Then he said,

“Did you hear the shot, Miss Lenox?”

“Yes.”

“Where were you?”

“I had just come out of the orchard. I was clear of the trees.”

“We’ll have to check the time that takes you—we’ll have to check all
these times. But I dare say you’ve got a good idea how long it takes.
Was there time for Mr. Carrick to have reached the study before you
heard the shot?”

Susan had been very pale. She became paler still. She said in a voice
that did not rise above a whisper,

“He was on the terrace. He didn’t go—straight—to the house.”

“But if he had—was there time?”

She looked at him and did not speak.

“Was there time, Miss Lenox?”

Bill said roughly, “Of course there was! What’s the good of beating
about the bush? If I’d gone straight on to the house the way I was going
I’d have been there when the shot was fired—it’s no good making any
bones about that. But I didn’t go straight, so I wasn’t in the house. I
was on the second terrace.”

“Sure of that, Mr. Carrick?”

“Quite sure.”

“Yes. . . . You said you were pulling yourself together. Were you out of
control?”

“I wanted to kill him,” said Bill grimly.

Frank Abbott glanced up from his shorthand and murmured something which
sounded like “The prisoner conducted his own prosecution”. He received a
majestic glance from his superior officer and went back to his notes.

Bill’s colour rose.

“I didn’t kill him—I only wanted to. He was a blackmailing swine, and I
had to get Susan clear. I’d got sense enough left to know that it was no
good crowding in and offering to beat him up. I’d got to keep my head.
That’s why I was on the lower terrace and not up at the house when the
shot was fired.”

Inspector Lamb made no comment. He said,

“Did you touch anything at all while you were in the study?”

“No.”

“And you, Miss Lenox?”

“I didn’t come in. I didn’t come any farther than the middle of the
terrace.”

Lamb swung round in his chair and picked up a paper from the table. His
eyes travelled slowly from the page to Susan’s face.

“Were you aware that Mr. Dale made a fresh will yesterday?” he said.

Frank Abbott saw Bill Carrick start. Susan clenched her hands and said,

“Yes.”

“Were you aware of the terms of that will?”

She kept her eyes on his face.

“He rang me up and said he had made a will.”

“Did he tell you what was in it?”

Susan steadied the very small amount of voice she had left.

“He said—it was the old-fashioned everything-to-my-wife sort. He
said—he just wanted me to know——”

The voice failed altogether.

Bill Carrick sprang up.

“She wasn’t his wife—she never would have been! The will isn’t worth
the paper it’s written on!”

Inspector Lamb got up too, slowly as befitted a man of his girth.

“The will leaves everything to Miss Susan Lenox in anticipation of
marriage. Mr. Duckett of the Market Square, Ledlington, who drew it up,
will tell you that it is perfectly valid.”

Susan lost the Inspector in a mist. It was a very thick mist, like
cotton wool. She stopped trying to compete with it and shut her eyes.




                               CHAPTER XX


“Well,” said Inspector Lamb—“and where does this get us?”

Frank Abbott opened his notebook.

“Those times check up pretty well the way we thought. If Susan Lenox
started up the hill three minutes after Carrick did, he could easily
have reached this study by the time she got to the top of the orchard.
Mrs. Mickleham gives us the times they started from the Little House.”

“Think he did it?” said Lamb.

Frank Abbott laughed.

“Do you?”

“I’m asking you.”

“Hearing the boy his lessons,” murmured Frank Abbott. “‘Home-work at the
Yard’, and ‘How to become an Inspector’—I beg your pardon, sir.”

“You’ll need to one of these days. Tongue trouble—that’s what you’ve
got. What do you say about Carrick? That’s what I asked you, you know.”

“Well, Dale was shot with his own revolver—that’s been confirmed.
Carrick most obligingly informed us that everyone knew about Dale’s
revolver, and if he couldn’t remember knowing about it himself, that was
just too bad and quite his own fault. If you’re going to take Susan
Lenox’s evidence as to the time of the shot, Dale was killed at between
one and two minutes after the half hour, and nearer the one than the
two. I think we’ve got to believe her, because if she was going to lie
she would produce something that would look a bit better for Carrick. As
it stands, he had between four and four and a half minutes to reach the
study and shoot Dale. I don’t believe he did shoot Dale. Firstly,
because no guilty person ever furnished the police with quite so much
gratuitous evidence against himself—to my mind he said everything that
the murderer wouldn’t have said. Secondly, the thing is stiff with
inherent improbabilities. He’s not only got to reach this room in four
and a half minutes, he’s got to get hold of the revolver and shoot it
off while Dale’s back is turned. I can’t see how it could possibly have
happened. If I was mad enough to kill a chap who had taken my girl I’d
want to damn him into heaps before I shot him. If it had been Carrick’s
own revolver, he might have rushed off with it, got in at the glass
door, and shot Dale. But even so I don’t see how he was going to get
behind him. Anyone sitting at this writing-table has that door in view
all the time. And anyhow it wasn’t Carrick’s revolver, it was Dale’s.
Suppose he came in and threatened Dale, and Dale got out his
revolver—Carrick would have to take it from him. Dale was a powerful
man. Do you think he could have got it without a struggle? And if he had
got it, was Dale going to turn his back and let himself be shot through
the head? And all in four and a half minutes—from the kitchen of the
Little House, to Dale dead here on the floor. I say it couldn’t be done.
And if it couldn’t be done, then I say Carrick didn’t do it.”

“Suppose it was this way,” said Lamb—“he didn’t come in through that
glass door at all, he got into the house some other way and came in by
the door the butler used—the one that’s behind me now. Dale wouldn’t
see who it was—he’d think it was the butler or the secretary. But
Carrick would see the open drawer, and the revolver lying handy. Then
you’d get it this way—Carrick snatches the revolver, Dale pushes back
his chair, and Carrick jumps back and shoots him as he gets up. How
about that?”

“How did he get into the house? There wasn’t a door or a window open on
the ground floor except the door and the window in this room. As Dale
sat at his table he was facing between the two with the window on his
right front and the door on his left front. No one could have come in by
either without his seeing them.”

“Here’s another way then,” said Lamb—“the revolver wasn’t here at
all—Miss Lenox had it. She may have taken it because she was afraid of
what might happen when those two met. Raby saw the drawer pulled out,
but he didn’t see the revolver. We took that to mean that he wasn’t
noticing, but it may have meant that the revolver wasn’t there. Suppose
Miss Lenox did take it, and Carrick came on it. They were in the
kitchen. One of the dresser drawers would be a likely enough
hiding-place. Say he came on it and stuffed it down into the pocket of
his coat. He rushes in on Dale and begins to tell him off. He called him
a blackmailing swine to us just now. Suppose he let off like that at
him—what would Dale do? Push back his chair and turn round to go and
ring the bell. And Carrick shoots him. That wouldn’t take so long.”

Abbott nodded.

“Highly ingenious, but I don’t think. Too many ifs and ands. You can ask
Susan Lenox.”

“You think she’d tell the truth?”

“I don’t think she could tell a lie without giving herself away. No
practice, and would always be a very poor performer.”

“It’s a queer set-out,” said Lamb.

“As you said to start with. And how true. Here, to agree with Bill
Carrick, is a first-class blackmailing swine on the verge of smashing up
certainly two, probably three people’s lives. Someone removes him in the
nick of time—a most praiseworthy act—and it is our unfortunate duty to
hunt down this benefactor and get him hanged.”

The rosy face of Inspector Lamb became stern. His eyes protruded
slightly.

“Now, Abbott, that’s enough of that. Fancy ways of talking about it
don’t make crime into anything except just crime. Murder’s murder, and
the law is the law. There’s a law against the blackmailer for his
blackmailing, and there’s a law against the murderer for his murdering.
It’s the law that’s got to punish people—not you, or me, or Mr.
Carrick, just because we think a man’s a bad man. He’s got the right to
have a judge and a jury on that, and be found guilty or not guilty as
the case may be. So don’t let me hear any more of that fancy stuff. Too
much tongue, my lad—that’s what’s the matter with you, and some day
it’s going to get you into trouble.”

“_Absit omen_,” murmured Frank Abbott—“I mean, yes, sir.”

Lamb grunted.

“Where’s the report on those finger-prints? I want to run through
it. . . . Now, let’s see how this works in. Raby’s prints all over the
place—faint. That’s what you’d expect. . . . Very good and fresh on the
wood-box and the edge of the hearth. That bears out his statement all
right. . . . Only Dale’s own finger-prints on that pulled-out drawer and
on the pushed-back chair. . . . No finger-prints at all on the revolver.
Whoever used it wiped it off or wore gloves. . . . Dale’s prints on the
handle of the glass door and the latch of the open window. . . . A print
of nearly the whole of Carrick’s hand on the window sill. That bears out
his statement that he stood there and looked in.”

“Then there isn’t any possibility that he could have shot Dale in the
time.”

“Looks that way. Now—let’s see—what about the glass door? His
statement looked as if it wasn’t open when he went along to the window,
but it was open when he came back. There are some old faint prints of
the footman’s, the one person in the house who has an unbreakable alibi,
and apart from them nothing but Dale’s. If that door was opened after
Dale was shot, or pushed wide after being ajar as seems likely from
Raby’s evidence—he said it was a little bit open—then the person who
pushed it open must have carefully avoided leaving prints. That’s where
I can’t fit young Carrick in. Apart from all this time business, I don’t
see him being so careful about prints—not in the frame of mind he was
in. He might have thought to wipe the revolver, but I don’t see him
bothering with the door. Of course he might just have given it a shove
with his shoulder, and off like that. But if he found it wide open, as
it was found by Raby at a quarter to seven, well, then he’d have no call
to touch it.”

“I think he was telling the truth,” said Frank Abbott. “I don’t know
what a jury would think.”

Lamb frowned.

“Well, there it is. Now, what about this footmark?” He picked up a piece
of paper and stared at the drawing on it. “Fore part of a woman’s
shoe—size five—no heel mark. . . . There’s a muddy puddle on the path
up from the Little House just before you come to the lower terrace. I
noticed Miss Lenox went wide of it without looking when we went down
with them just now. It’s a soft bit of ground—probably always wet after
rain. She stepped wide without having to give it a thought. The question
is, did she forget about it last night? The shoe that made that mark had
been in a puddle all right. If it hadn’t rained before we got here, we’d
have been able to pick up the prints on the terrace and on the steps.
The woman who wore that shoe stood just inside the glass door. That’s
the only clear print, but there were traces of mud right across to where
the body was found. I think she came as near him as that. Perhaps she
was wearing gloves. Perhaps she handled the revolver. Perhaps she shot
him. Now Miss Lenox says she didn’t come into the room—Mr. Carrick says
so too.”

“Susan Lenox couldn’t have shot Dale. She didn’t leave the kitchen of
the Little House till the half hour, and she heard the shot——” Frank
Abbott stopped abruptly.

Lamb wagged a finger at him.

“She heard the shot, and Carrick heard the shot—_and nobody else did_.
And it’s their times we’re taking to argue with. If they’re not telling
the truth, what happens to your four and a half minutes and Carrick not
having time to get here? If they’re not telling the truth about where
they were when they heard the shot, they had the best part of a quarter
of an hour to come and go upon, and either of them could have shot him,
or they could both have been in it together—as far as the time was
concerned——” Lamb paused, and added, “Miss Lenox takes a shoe that’s
very much the size of this.”




                              CHAPTER XXI


The telephone bell rang. Frank Abbott listened, scribbled on a piece of
paper, hung up, and pushed the paper over to Inspector Lamb.

“The bank at Ledlington—about those notes. He drew the two hundred in
four fifties. These are the numbers.”

Lamb picked up a bunch of keys and unlocked the top drawer on the
right-hand side of Lucas Dale’s writing-table. The contents of the dead
man’s pockets came into view—a handkerchief, a stub of sealing-wax, a
pocket-knife, a green and blue marble, a twist of twine, a pencil, a
fountain pen, a snapshot of Susan Lenox in a small brown leather case, a
cheque-book on a Ledlington bank, some loose change, and a sealskin
wallet with his initials on it in gold.

Lamb took up the cheque-book and flicked over the counterfoils.

“Here we are—the last cheque he drew, dated yesterday—self two hundred
pounds. And—” he took up the wallet and opened it—“here are three of
the fifties. This one”—he put a splayed forefinger on the last of
Abbott’s scribbled numbers—“this one’s gone. When I rang up this
morning the manager was out. I said they could wait till he came in if
it made them any happier, but the clerk I talked to remembered Dale
coming in. He said it was after lunch round about a quarter to three.
Now the Vicar says it was half past three when Dale came to see him.
That means he drove straight from the bank to the Vicarage, and he must
have driven fast. Well, he was back here at four o’clock according to
Raby. That was when he informed the household of his proposed marriage.
Then he had tea. By six o’clock or so he was quarrelling with Mr.
Vincent Bell. When, where, and how did he get rid of that fifty-pound
note?”

“He might have given it to the Vicar—fee for marriage—donation on
occasion of marriage or what not.”

“Ring him up and ask him,” said Lamb.

But Mr. Mickleham denied any knowledge of a fifty-pound note. The denial
was on the verbose side, and the Inspector was frowning before Abbott at
length said politely,

“Thank you very much, sir—that was all we wanted to know,” and hung up.

“Chatty—very chatty. A citizen’s first duty and all that sort of thing,
but quite clear that he never saw hair hide or hoof of a banknote. His
conversation with Dale was all high moral scruples and such. The sordid
question of money never came into it at all.”

“Where’s that fifty-pound note?” demanded Lamb.

“He may have posted it to someone.”

“Well then, he didn’t. There was only one letter for the post last
night, and that was Mr. Phipson’s to the sanitary engineers. Just ring
and get hold of Raby, will you?”

Raby looked paler than ever as he came in. He had an unfortunate
imagination, and during the time which had elapsed since his previous
interrogation he had been engaged with vivid and horrifying pictures of
his arrest, trial, and subsequent execution, together with a quite
fantastic vision of stout, comfortable Mrs. Raby starving in a garret.
It was all terribly plain in his mind, and to say the least of it
harrowing. He turned a pale duck’s-egg green when Lamb addressed him.

“Come along in and shut the door. Just one or two things I’m not quite
clear about. What’s the matter with you, man—are you ill?”

Raby mopped a brow to which the cold sweat clung.

“It’s the strain, sir. I’m sure anything I can do——”

“Just a few questions. Mr. Dale came home at four o’clock yesterday?”

“Yes, sir.”

“And then he told you about his intended marriage, and after that you
served tea in here. Who else was present?”

“Mr. Phipson and Mr. Bell.”

“When did you clear away?”

“At a quarter past five.”

“Were Mr. Bell and Mr. Phipson still here?”

“Yes, sir. They went away whilst I was clearing.”

Frank Abbott thought, “He wouldn’t have given either of them fifty
pounds in the presence of the other. He wouldn’t have given it to Bell
in the middle of a quarrel.” He met Lamb’s eyes and saw the same thought
there.

The Inspector said, “And after that, as far as you know, Mr. Dale was
alone until his quarrel with Mr. Bell. No one called to see him?”

“No one except the lady, sir.”

Lamb’s hand came down with a thud upon his own solid knee. He said, “The
lady!” and Frank Abbott said, “The lady!”

Raby, on the verge of a nervous collapse, echoed them.

“The lady, sir.”

“What lady?”

“A Miss Cora de Lisle, sir.”

The Inspector flung himself back in his chair.

“Go on, go on, go on!”

“A Miss Cora de Lisle, sir.”

Lamb’s face became quite astonishingly crimson. Frank Abbott said in his
quiet, cultured voice,

“Miss Cora de Lisle—can you tell us anything about her?”

Raby shook his head.

“Not a friend of the family?”

He shook it again.

“Never seen her before?”

Raby looked as if he was going to faint.

“Only Thursday,” he gasped.

Frank Abbott got up and clapped him on the shoulder.

“Hold up—we’re not going to eat you. You see, any visitor Mr. Dale had
yesterday evening may be important. Brace up and tell us all about Miss
Cora de Lisle. By the way, how do you come to know her Christian name?
She didn’t say ‘Call me Cora’ when you answered the door, I take it?”

Raby revived a little.

“Oh, no, sir—it was on her card. Thursday morning Miss O’Hara rang the
bell in here, and when I answered it she was up in the window at her
table, and this Miss de Lisle, she was outside leaning in over the
window-sill. A very odd-looking person, if I may say so.”

“In what way?”

“Wild, sir, and in my opinion a bit under the influence.”

“Drunk?” said Lamb.

“Oh, no, sir, I wouldn’t go so far as to say that—but she smelled of
spirits and had a wild kind of look. Miss O’Hara seemed right down
afraid of her, and no wonder. She took out a card and gave it to Miss
Cathy, and Miss Cathy gave it to me and asked me to see if Mr. Dale was
in.”

“And was he?”

“Not to her,” said Raby with returning animation. “He took the card and
he looked at it very ugly indeed, and he tore it up and said, ‘Say I’ve
gone out and you don’t know when I’ll be back.’ Not half vexed she was
either.”

“And she came back last night?” said Lamb.

“A little before half past five. And the minute I opened the door she
walked past me into the hall, and she said, ‘It’s no good your saying
Mr. Dale’s not at home, because I know he is. I’ve come here to see him
and I’m going to see him, so it’ll save me a whole lot of trouble if you
just take me along, because if you don’t, I’m going into every room, and
if you try and put me out I’ll scream the house down—and Lucas won’t
like that’. She called him by his name to me just like that, as bold as
you please.”

“And was she still under the influence?”

“Rather more so, I should say. So I went along to the study, and I’d
hardly said her name before she came pushing past me and as good as shut
the door in my face. I waited about in the hall in case I was wanted,
and I could hear them going at it hammer and tongs. And then presently
they quieted down a bit, and Mr. Dale rang the bell for me to show her
out. She looked a deal better pleased than when she came in, which was
something. I showed her out of the front door and locked up after her,
and Mr. Dale came out to me in the hall and said, ‘If that lady ever
comes here again, I’m not at home, and you won’t be either if you let
her in’—meaning, as I took it, that I’d get the sack if she ever got
past me again.”

“And why didn’t you mention this before?”

Raby paled again.

“Mr. Dale told me not to. He said, ‘You keep your mouth shut about all
this’. And I didn’t think it could have anything to do with the murder,
seeing I locked up after her well before six o’clock.”

“She gave you her card,” said Frank Abbott. “Was there any address on
it?”

“Theatre Royal, Ledlington,” said Raby with relief at being asked
anything so easy.




                              CHAPTER XXII


“That’s Cathy’s tray,” said Susan. “I’m taking it up. Aunt Milly’s
coming down. Just keep an eye on that saucepan and don’t let it boil
over.”

Bill put his arms round her, pulled her up close, and kissed her hard.

“You’re fagged to death. Someone ought to be carrying trays up for you.”

“Oh, Bill!” Susan actually laughed.

“It’s nothing to laugh about. I’m worried sick about you, and if you go
about looking like that, old what’s-his-name Lamb will feel quite sure
you’re consumed with inward guilt.”

“I’ll put on some colour. Do you think that will really convince him
that I’m innocent?”

“I should think it would make him quite sure you’re not. What you’ve got
to do is go and lie down directly after lunch and get a spot of sleep.”

The sleepless hours of three dreadful nights rose up before Susan’s
eyes. He felt her shudder.

“I couldn’t. Take me out in Ted’s car. I suppose they’ll let us go.”

“The last ride together.”

“Don’t! It might be. I can’t laugh about it. I want to have it.”

“All right, you shall.”

She stepped back and went to take up the tray.

“It’s lovely Cathy being so much better, isn’t it? She’s eating a proper
meal, and she’s going to get up to tea.” She came back to him and
dropped her voice. “Bill—when I told her—she said, ‘Then I shall get
well’. That was strange—wasn’t it? And I was so afraid of telling her.”

Bill frowned.

“I don’t think it was strange at all. He threatened her—he blackmailed
you—she collapsed. Wouldn’t you expect her to be relieved at hearing he
was out of the way for good?”

Susan shook her head.

“No, I wouldn’t—not Cathy.”

She went up with the tray.

Mrs. O’Hara came down to lunch and talked with a kind of plaintive
brightness about how nice it was to see the sun, and if it went on being
so mild she might begin to think about going out, only of course spring
weather was very, very treacherous, and perhaps it would be wiser not to
run any risks. “You see, if I were to be ill, it would throw altogether
too much upon Susan, my dear Bill. I sometimes think she has too much to
do as it is—— Really, my dear, you are very pale to-day, and you are
eating nothing, positively nothing. It is just what I have been
saying—this unfortunate turn of Cathy’s—the minute anyone cannot come
down to meals it means trays—and every tray means twice up and down
these very awkward stairs—really quite incessant. So we can’t be too
thankful that Cathy is so much better. She says she is getting up as
soon as she has had her lunch, but I told her she had much better rest
quietly until tea-time, as I intend to do. And I think you should do so
too, Susan. There is nothing like a little rest in the afternoon for
helping to pass the day.”

Susan got up and began to change the plates.

“Bill and I are going out,” she said.

As she went through into the kitchen, Mrs. O’Hara’s voice followed her.

“Oh, my dear—do you think you should? Villages do notice everything so
much.”

Susan came back with the pudding.

“What is there to notice, Aunt Milly?”

“Bill and you, my dear.”

Susan’s colour burned, and faded. Bill said,

“The village ought to be accustomed to us by now.”

Mrs. O’Hara looked from one to the other in a deprecating manner.

“Well, it all depends whether they think you are still engaged, or
whether they think that Susan was engaged to Mr. Dale, because if they
do they wouldn’t expect to see you going about together before the
funeral.”

Bill set his jaw.

“Look here, Aunt Milly, Susan and I have been engaged for two years. If
there’s any stupid nonsense going round about her being engaged to Dale
it’s got to be contradicted, and the best way of contradicting it will
be for us to go about together just as we’ve always done.”

Mrs. O’Hara ate her pudding thoughtfully.

“I don’t know if you are right—but the village will be sure to talk
whatever you do, so perhaps it doesn’t matter. Old Nurse used to
say—the one Laura and I had when we were children—she used to say,
‘Don’t you worry about what folks say. It’s all emptiness anyway, and
when they’re talking about you they’re giving another poor soul a rest’.
A little more pudding, dear. You make this very well. Now I do hope the
police haven’t got hold of any idea that you were engaged to Mr. Dale,
because of course if they have they must think it most strange that he
should have committed suicide.”

Susan pushed her chair back, and Bill said “Suicide!” in a loud,
surprised voice.

Mrs. O’Hara removed an orange pip from her mouth in a perfectly ladylike
manner.

“Is there a hole in your strainer, my dear? The flavour is excellent,
but there ought not to be pips—I might have swallowed one.”

“Dale didn’t commit suicide,” said Bill Carrick.

Mrs. O’Hara looked pained.

“My dear Bill, of course he did.”

“I’m afraid he didn’t. He was murdered.”

Mrs. O’Hara shook her head.

“The Press is so dreadfully sensational nowadays. I shall open the door
to no one while you are out. In fact I should not do so in any case, as
I shall be resting.”

Susan sat back in her chair and took no part. Bill said with restrained
violence,

“It isn’t the Press—it’s the police. It’s the medical evidence. He
couldn’t possibly have committed suicide.”

“My dear Bill, spare me! I prefer to think that he committed suicide.
That is quite bad enough without having to believe that we have a
murderer in our midst. And now I think I will go up and sit with Cathy
for half an hour before I have my rest.”

Bill picked up the handkerchief she had dropped, shut the door after
her, and groaned.

“She prefers to think he committed suicide, so he did. What a mind! No,
that’s wrong—she hasn’t got a mind. If she wants anything, it’s that
way as far as she’s concerned. Last, lingering, horrible results of the
feudal system. You see, in their heyday, if they wanted anything they
could just make it so. And it went to their heads. When the power was
gone they put up a social camouflage and pretended they’d still got it.
Would your Uncle James have admitted to a living soul that he was broke
to the wide, and that he’d nothing to leave but debts and mortgages? Did
he tell his own sister? You know he didn’t. He preferred to believe that
it wasn’t true, just as Aunt Milly prefers to believe there hasn’t been
a murder. They just can’t bring themselves to believe that they haven’t
the power to control events.”

Susan raised her eyes with a lost look.

“I wish I could pretend, Bill,” she said.




                             CHAPTER XXIII


Frank Abbott opened the rusty iron gate of 17 Gladstone Villas and
walked up a narrow path whose red and blue tiles were in the last stages
of dirt and dilapidation. The little square patch of front garden
contained a decayed-looking holly tree and half a dozen bushes of golden
privet. These had perhaps been intended to form a hedge, but it was
obviously years since they had been clipped.

Gladstone Villas lie on the lower side of Ledlington Market Square, a
neighbourhood not highly esteemed. No. 17 was inhabited by Mrs. Clancy,
who let to the less affluent members of theatrical touring companies.
Enquiries at the Theatre Royal had brought Abbott to her door. He rang a
bell whose brass had long forgotten how to shine, and had to ring it
again. He was just going to try his luck at the back door, when the
sound of slow advancing footsteps halted him and the door swung in. Mrs.
Clancy stood revealed, a vast and shapeless person with a sacking apron
tied on over an old red flannel dressing-gown. Her face streamed with
heat, and her wild grey hair stood out all round it in tangles which
rather reminded him of the privet. Out of all this wreck a pair of very
bright blue eyes twinkled at him.

“Is it Miss de Lisle? Well then, she’ll be in her dishabill like meself,
and neither of us expecting a foine young man. Wait you a minute.” She
stepped back to a dark ascending stair and called up it in a rich,
sonorous voice, “Miss de Lisle me dear, here’s a visitor for ye. Will
you be after seeing him?”

There was some faint response which Abbott did not catch. He thought a
door had opened. Mrs. Clancy swung round on him.

“Up with ye—and it’s the second door on the left.”

The second door on the left was standing open. Abbott came to it, and
was aware of Miss de Lisle in the middle of the room. He said, “May I
come in?” and saw her big black eyes change from apprehension to
surprise. She nodded.

“Who are you? What do you want?”

Abbott shut the door. The room was a bed-sitting-room, ill furnished,
ill kept, and at the moment littered with Miss de Lisle’s
possessions—stockings and an old pair of tights on the bed rail; a
crushed mass of crimson satin slipping to the floor; across the bed the
old black cloth coat and the hat with the scarlet feather in which she
had come to King’s Bourne—as described by Raby; on the pillow shoes
very down at heel, a spangled scarf, a disintegrating pair of stays, a
moulting feather wrap.

His eyes came back to the owner of this sordid hotchpotch. Like Mrs.
Clancy she wore a dressing-gown. It had once been costly. The silk was
frayed and stained. Something dark had been spilt all down the front.
The vivid orange colour still flattered the dark skin, the great eyes,
and the falling masses of black hair. On the road Cora de Lisle might
come very near to looking like a tramp, but in this strange garish
garment she was a handsome, haggard creature who must once have been
beautiful. She stood clutching her wrap about her and swaying on her
feet. The chair from which she had risen was drawn up to a small, hot
fire. On a gimcrack table in the angle stood a bottle of brandy and a
tumbler.

“What do you want?” said Miss de Lisle.

Frank Abbott came forward.

She looked at the card he offered her and said in a stumbling voice,

“What’s all this? I’ve not done anything.” Then, with a sudden flare of
anger, “I haven’t done _anything_! He can’t put the police on me! I tell
you he gave it to me! And what’s that got to do with the police? I don’t
wonder you’re called busies—busy with everybody else’s business, and no
more use than a sick headache if you lose your purse or have your pocket
picked! I tell you he——” She broke off suddenly and said in a
different tone, “What do you want?”

Frank Abbott used his pleasantest voice.

“I just want to ask you a few questions. Even if you did lose a purse
and we were too stupid to find it for you, I’m quite sure you would do
all you could to help the police. We do our best, you know, and people
are mostly very kind about helping us. But won’t you sit down? I don’t
want to keep you standing.”

She went back to her chair, arranging her draperies, thrusting out a
foot in an old tinsel slipper, laying her left hand along the arm of the
chair to display a large gaudy ring which caught the light and turned it
ruby-red. She threw back her head against a crimson cushion and said,

“If you’ve come from Lucas, I haven’t got anything to say to you. He
gave me the money freely, and there’s an end of it.”

“The fifty-pound note, Miss de Lisle?”

She laughed.

“Is he going to say I stole it? He’d better not try that on with me! He
gave it me, I tell you, and wrote on the back so I could change it. And
why shouldn’t he? Isn’t he rolling in money—and don’t I deserve
something for putting up with him for five years?” She laughed on a
deep, harsh note. “I could tell his Miss Susan Lenox a thing or two, and
see if she’d marry him then.”

Abbott was leaning against the mantelpiece. His elbow had to find room
between a broken china candlestick and a bright blue vase encrusted with
gilding. He said quietly,

“When did you see Mr. Dale last?”

She threw him an exasperated look.

“What are you trying to do—trip me up and then make out I’ve said a lot
of things that never entered my head?”

“No, I’m not trying to trip you up. I’m only asking you when you last
saw Mr. Dale, and you needn’t answer if you don’t want to.”

Exasperation changed to suspicion.

“Who says I don’t want to answer? I’m sure I’ve got nothing to hide—not
like some people I could name that’d be in Queer Street if I was to open
my mouth. Well, what do you want to know?”

“Just when you last saw Mr. Dale.”

She pushed back her hair with the hand that wore the ring.

“We were here for the week. Thursday I went over and he was out, or said
he was—and mind you he knew I was coming, because I wrote. And all I
saw was a girl that looked as if she thought I was going to bite
her—Miss Cathleen O’Hara. And you’d expect a girl with a name like that
to have a bit more spirit. Monday I went over again—that was yesterday.
I had to push my way past the butler, or I wouldn’t have got in then. I
meant to see Lucas if I had to wait all night.”

“What time was this?”

She stared.

“I got the bus to the village—got in about five, if you want to know,
and had something at the Crown and Magpie just to get my courage
up—that’s a queer sort of a name, isn’t it? I suppose it might have
been half past five when I got up to the house.”

“Wasn’t that going to make you a bit late for the theatre if you were
playing last night?”

She looked away.

“Well then, I wasn’t. If you must know, I’d got the sack. The show had
cleared out. That’s why I had to see Lucas.”

“And you saw him, and he gave you a fifty-pound note?”

Her look came back, angry and direct.

“Any business of yours if he did?”

“Well, I’m afraid it is. When did you leave Mr. Dale?”

She sat up with a hand on either arm of the chair.

“Look here, what’s all this? Do you keep your watch in your hand all the
time you go visiting? Because I don’t, and I never heard of anyone else
that did either.”

“I just thought you might have some idea,” said Abbott mildly.

She seemed mollified.

“I suppose I was there for the best part of twenty minutes. I’d a bus to
catch, and I know I had to hurry.”

“The six o’clock bus from the Crown and Magpie?”

“That would be it.”

“And did you catch it?”

She turned a full, bold stare upon him.

“Trying to catch me out, dear? Well then, you can’t? I could have caught
it if I’d wanted to. But I didn’t want to—see? And why? Because a nice
young man came along with his car and gave me a lift. And you can put
that in your pipe and smoke it, Mr. Busy from Scotland Yard!”

“You didn’t go back to King’s Bourne, did you?”

Her eyes brightened uneasily.

“No, I didn’t.”

“Are you quite sure?”

“Of course I’m sure. What’d I go back for? I’d got my fifty pounds,
hadn’t I?”

“Had you?”

The dark colour rushed into her face. He thought of Cleopatra and
Semiramis.

“What do you mean? What do you mean? What do you mean?” Her voice ran up
to a scream and broke. She got to her feet and stood there shaking—was
it with rage? “What’s all this about? You’ll tell me what you mean or
you’ll get out! Do you hear?”

Frank Abbott straightened up.

“I’ve been listening with the greatest interest, Miss de Lisle. Now I’m
going to ask you to listen to me. You got into Netherbourne at about
five o’clock, and you went into the Crown and Magpie and had a double
brandy.”

“And what if I did? I told you, didn’t I?”

Abbott nodded.

“You did—and now I’m telling you. You went up to King’s Bourne and had
your talk with Mr. Dale, and came away at about ten minutes to six. And
then you went back to the Crown and Magpie and had another double
brandy, and missed the bus. You didn’t tell me that bit—did you?”

She looked darkly sullen.

“I told you I missed the bus.”

Frank Abbott said, “Well——” and saw her colour rise. She bit her lip
and did not speak. He thought, “Why doesn’t she throw me out—why hasn’t
she thrown me out long ago? She’s angry all right, but she’s less angry
than afraid. She’s dropped the pretence that I’ve come from Dale. I
think she knows he’s dead. If the news reached her in any ordinary way,
why should she pretend she doesn’t know? If she really doesn’t know, why
should she have answered a single one of my questions—unless the fifty
pounds was blackmail? It might be that. I think she knows he’s dead, and
knows it in a way that she can’t or won’t own up to. She knows
something—_something_——”

He let the silence go on until the room was heavy with it. Then he said
so quietly that the silence broke without jarring.

“When you came out of the Crown and Magpie, which way did you go?”

She frowned and tapped with her foot on the floor.

“Come, Miss de Lisle, the landlord remembers your coming in at five
o’clock, and again at just after six. It’s all downhill from King’s
Bourne, so it didn’t take you so long to come back as it took you to go.
And you had your double brandy and ‘took it off quick and out again’,
and he didn’t see which way you went. The bus was gone when you got
there. Now what did you do when you left the Crown and Magpie?”

She looked down at her tapping foot.

“I told you I got a lift.”

“What sort of car was it, Miss de Lisle?”

He got an angry stare.

“I don’t know one from another.”

He smiled.

“Big car—little car—tourer—sports model?
Red—blue—green—black—grey?”

She said with a kind of goaded energy,

“It was dark. Do you think I can see in the dark? I didn’t give a damn
what sort of car it was. I wanted to get back here.”

“Very natural. But you haven’t told me which way you turned when you
came out of the Crown and Magpie.”

The air became charged with furious suspicion. He could almost see her
thinking, “Perhaps someone saw me—perhaps they didn’t. Better be on the
safe side.” She said,

“I turned to the right.”

“To go back to King’s Bourne?”

“No!” She almost shouted the word at him.

“Well, you wouldn’t get to Ledlington that way—would you? Wrong
direction, I’m afraid.”

“Don’t you ever take a wrong turning in a place you don’t know?”

“I might after two double brandies.”

Cora de Lisle whirled round, snatched the large bright blue vase from
the mantelpiece, and hurled it at his head. That it smashed against the
wall instead of in his face was due to quickness of eye and some
proficiency in boxing. He side-stepped neatly and received with calm the
flood of vituperation which followed the vase. When angry tears
supervened he said,

“That was unpardonable of me. I really do apologize. Why did you go back
to King’s Bourne, Miss de Lisle?”

She stopped midway in a sob and glared at him.

“I didn’t, I tell you—I didn’t! Are you trying to make out that it was
me——” The loud voice failed. The hand with the ring came up across her
mouth. She bit upon the knuckles. Her eyes were sick with fear.

There was a jagged pause.

“Yes?” said Frank Abbott. “You were going to say——”

“I wasn’t.” The words came in a desperate whisper.

“I think you were. I think you knew last night that Lucas Dale had been
shot.”

Her hand fell from her lips. The knuckles were bleeding.

“I—didn’t——”

He thought, “She did know it. It’s no surprise—no shock.” He said,

“When did you hear?”

“I don’t know—someone told me——”

“Who?”

“I don’t—know——”

“You knew last night—you knew when you were at King’s Bourne. If you
shot him—I won’t ask you to incriminate yourself. But if you didn’t—if
you didn’t—don’t you see how important your evidence is going to be?”

Her face went grey. She stood back.

“You listen to me, young man. What had I got to shoot Lucas for? If I’d
been that sort I’d have shot him fifteen years ago, not now. I was
married to him for five years. If I’d been the killing sort I’d have
killed him then. I didn’t. I ran away from him, and he’d the nerve to
divorce me—_him_! And all I wanted was to get quit of him. I haven’t
seen him since, and I wouldn’t have seen him now, only I’m
done—finished—out. Can’t keep my jobs—can’t get them—can’t stand it
all like I used to. And he’d got all that money. Well, I touched him for
fifty pounds, and I’d have gone on touching him. If he’d married his
Miss Susan Lenox, it would have paid him to keep me quiet—see? Now
perhaps you can tell me why I should shoot Lucas.”

Abbott walked over to the window. He stood looking down at the untidy
yellow privet. Then he turned round and said,

“It would have been very stupid. People are stupid sometimes. By the
way, Miss de Lisle, I see this was a variety show you were with. They
left on Sunday. What sort of turn did you put on?”

She stared without answering.

“Are you going to tell me?” He paused. “Is there any reason why you
shouldn’t tell me? . . . Well, perhaps I can tell you. I think you were
billed as Miss Cora de Lisle, the famous female sharpshooter. That’s
right, isn’t it?”




                              CHAPTER XXIV


Bill Carrick and Susan Lenox drove in the pale sunlight. It had been
fine all the morning. It was fine still, but there was an east wind
blowing and no warmth anywhere. They went by crooked lanes between bare
hedgerows, and then up through a cutting, where tree roots propped the
banks, to an open heathy common. Right in the middle of it Bill drove
off the road on to a flat sandy place and stopped the car. A solitary
motor-bicycle went by and disappeared behind a clump of rowans and gorse
bushes a couple of hundred yards away. Susan watched it out of sight.
She frowned a little and said,

“He’s been behind us all the way.”

Bill said, “Yes.”

She looked at him with startled eyes.

“I can’t hear his engine.”

Bill said, “No—he’s stopped.” Then he laughed. “I wonder what he would
have done if there hadn’t been a clump of trees.”

“Do you mean he’s following us? _Bill!_”

He sat round against the side of the car and faced her.

“Of course he is. I expect he’s been told to be discreet. He won’t do
anything more than follow us unless he thinks I’m going to do a bunk. It
must be very reassuring for him to see us sitting here in a nice open
place like this—very calming. And as he’s well out of earshot, we can
afford to be calm about it too.”

“You mean he’s a policeman?”

“Undoubtedly. Look here, Susan, we’ve got to face this. I’m under
suspicion. Old Lamb isn’t going to risk my cutting loose. Of course I’d
be a fool to do it, but if I’d really shot Dale I expect I should be so
rattled by now that I might be ready for any fool trick. Ever since he
saw us this morning I’ve been wondering why he hasn’t had me arrested,
but now I think it’s because he’s got me on a string and if I bolt I’ll
be giving myself away.”

Her hands clenched upon one another, straining.

“Bill—_don’t_!”

He leaned forward and put his hand down hard over hers.

“I’ve got to. Look here, my dear, we’ve got to talk this out and know
where we are, and we’ve got this chance to do it—we may not get
another. That’s why I brought you here. I picked a place where we shan’t
be interrupted. We don’t want Cathy, or Aunt Milly, or the police, or
Mrs. Mickleham getting themselves mixed up with this conversation—it’s
between you and me. And the thing we start off with is this—are you
quite sure in your own mind that I didn’t shoot Dale?”

Their looks shocked together and held. A heavenly certainty sank deep
into Susan’s mind. She said,

“Quite sure.”

He nodded.

“That’s all right then, because I didn’t. But if you’d had any sort of
doubt about it, everything was going to be a lot harder for both of us.
The next thing is this—how much can you stand? Because it’s going to be
fairly tough.”

Susan said, “I don’t know—I don’t think I can stand much more.”

She felt the hard strength of the hand that was over hers.

“You’ve got to. Do you hear? You’ve got to! Cathy’s a crumpler, but
you’re not. If she’d stood up to Dale and told him to go to blazes, we
shouldn’t be in this mess. That’s what crumpling does. It doesn’t let
you out, and it lets everyone else in. Now are you going to crumple?”

The colour ran up into her cheeks like two bright burning flames. She
shook her head.

“You’re not that sort. Now, my girl, we’re up against it. It’ll be all
right in the end, but before we get there you’re going to want every bit
of toughness you can get together, because, short of finding the fellow
who did shoot Dale, they’re bound to arrest me. They may just keep me on
a string till the inquest—and I suppose that’ll be Thursday or
Friday—but that’s the most we can expect. There isn’t any jury in the
world that wouldn’t bring in a verdict against me, with the motive
they’ll think I had and Mrs. Mickleham’s evidence to ram it home. You
see, it’s exactly the sort of thing a jury
understands—motive—threat—opportunity. He took my girl. I said I’d
kill him. And I did. It’s as easy as pie, and they’ll simply eat it.”

The little bright flames flickered away. They left the fine skin
colourless. The dark blue eyes were steady.

“If you look at it, it won’t frighten you so much. You’ve got to look at
it, because as far as I can see it’s bound to happen. When you’ve got
used to the idea it won’t frighten you. You see, I didn’t do it, and
someone else did. All we want is time to find out who that someone was,
and there’ll be plenty of time. Do you see?”

Susan said “Yes” with a break in her voice. She pulled her hands away
and sat back. “Bill, it’s crazy—you _couldn’t_ have done it. You had
only just time to reach the study. How could anyone believe he would
have let you rush right in and get his revolver and then turn round and
let you shoot him from behind? It’s nonsense. There simply wasn’t time
before I heard the shot.”

His mouth twisted.

“My poor child, do you suppose they’re going to believe you?”

“What do you mean?”

He said, “Wake up, Susan! If no one except you and me heard that shot,
the bottom drops right out of all that about there not being time. If no
one heard it except us, we could fix the time to suit ourselves,
couldn’t we? And he wasn’t found until a quarter to seven. That’s what
we’re up against.”

A shiver ran lightly over her. She said very quietly,

“I see.”

Her voice stopped as if she could not keep that quiet tone. When she
went on again it was dry and strained.

“Someone else must have heard it.”

“If they did they’re not telling. Besides, who was there to hear it?
It’s too far for the village, and no one in the house seems to have
heard anything, from what I gather.” He gave a sudden short laugh. “I
expect it would surprise old Lamb if he knew what a lot the village
knows. Isn’t it tomorrow you have Mrs. Green? You’ll get it all from
her.”

“I wish there was anything to get,” said Susan.

He came nearer and slipped an arm round her, pulling her up against his
shoulder.

“There may be. It’s too soon to tell. Do you know—” his voice had a
tinge of astonishment—“do you know, it hadn’t happened this time
yesterday. It seems incredible, but this time twenty-four hours ago I’d
just got your letter and was pinching Ted’s car.”

“Won’t he want it?”

“If he does he’ll just have to. As a matter of fact he only uses it at
week-ends, and——” He stopped abruptly. A horrid picture of prison
walls was black in front of him. The inquest would be before the
week-end. Ted Walters would get his car back in plenty of time.




                              CHAPTER XXV


About the middle of that Tuesday afternoon Inspector Lamb walked down
through the garden and round to the front door of the Little House,
where he first rang the bell and about a minute later rapped sharply
with the heavy, old-fashioned knocker. When the sound had died away he
heard a light, hesitating footstep and the door was opened. A young girl
stood there looking up at him in a shy, questioning manner. She was very
light and small—rather a plain little thing in a brown jumper and
skirt, and hair that put him in mind of brown thistledown. She was paler
than he liked to see any young thing, and she had dark saucers under her
eyes which had no business to be there. He asked for Miss Susan Lenox,
and she said, “Oh, she’s out,” which was no news at all to Inspector
Lamb. He smiled benevolently and inquired if he was speaking to Miss
O’Hara, because if so, “I would be very glad if I might have a few words
with you. I dare say you can guess who I am—Detective Inspector Lamb.”

“I’ve been ill——” said Cathy in a faint, doubtful voice.

He nodded.

“I know that. I won’t bother you more than I can help.”

“Susan is out, and my mother is resting. We could come into the
drawing-room——”

Her eyes searched his face and found something kindly and dependable
there. She led the way into the crowded room, installed him in a big
arm-chair on one side of the fire, and sat looking very small and frail
on the edge of another chair on the opposite side of the hearth.

“It’s all so dreadful, isn’t it?” she said, and it came to him with a
shock of surprise that of all the people he had interviewed in
connection with the death of Lucas Dale she was the least nervous. In
point of fact she was not nervous at all. She was looking at him, and
speaking to him with quite visible relief.

He gave that nod of his again.

“Yes, it’s dreadful—bad enough anyhow, but worse until it’s cleared up.
When a thing like this happens the people who haven’t had a hand in it
have got to get together and help to clear it up. It’s everybody’s duty
to do that. You won’t be frightened or upset if I ask you some
questions?”

Cathy shook her head.

“Oh, no—you’re very kind.”

He smiled at her.

“Well, I don’t want to make you ill again. First of all I want to ask
you about a visitor you had up at King’s Bourne on Thursday morning. A
woman came and wanted to see Mr. Dale, didn’t she?”

“Oh, yes—Miss de Lisle. She frightened me.”

“Now why did she do that?”

Cathy gave him her shy little smile.

“I expect because I’m stupid. I _am_ stupid about people, you know.”

“Well, I suppose there was something that frightened you. Suppose you
tell me what it was.”

He saw her shrink.

“I thought—perhaps—she had been drinking——”

“Anything else?”

“She was odd and—and rough. She asked questions about Susan, and—and
she seemed angry with Mr. Dale. She was leaning in through the window,
and I didn’t like that very much.”

He beamed encouragingly.

“You’re doing fine. Now do you think you could tell me the whole thing
just as it happened from start to finish—what she looked like—what she
said?”

A little colour came into Cathy’s face. She said, “I’ll try,” and gave
him a meticulously accurate account of all that had passed on the
Thursday morning which seemed so much more than five days ago. When she
had finished he asked her if she remembered how Miss de Lisle was
dressed.

“Oh, yes, of course I do. I was sorry for her because she looked so
shabby. She had on an old black coat with some fur, and a scarlet and
orange handkerchief up at her neck, and a black hat with a scarlet
feather.”

“And you are sure she said she had been Mr. Dale’s wife?”

“Oh, yes. And she was. He told Susan about her.”

“I see. Well now, Miss O’Hara, I’m afraid I’ve got to ask you what
happened on Saturday. That was when you were taken ill, wasn’t it?”

She met his eyes with a confiding, troubled look.

“Yes—it was dreadful.”

“Well, you mustn’t let it make you ill again, because it’s all over. You
have been Mr. Dale’s secretary for about four months, haven’t you?”

“Yes.”

“What was he like to work for?”

Cathy’s eyes filled with tears.

“He was very kind—until—until Saturday——”

“And what happened then?”

Cathy rubbed her hand across her eyes like a child.

“He thought I’d done something dreadful. I hadn’t really.”

“What did he think you’d done?”

“Taken some of his pearls——” The words hardly reached him.

He made a clicking sound with his tongue.

“That was bad.”

Two little tears ran down her cheeks. She nodded miserably.

“He sent for Susan and made her look in my bag, and the pearls were
there.”

He clicked again.

“That was very bad. How did they get there?”

Cathy caught her breath.

“Is it very wicked to think that perhaps he put them there?”

Inspector Lamb said, “I don’t know about _wicked_. Is that what you
think?”

“Sometimes.”

Lamb grunted.

“What happened after that?”

“I fainted. After a bit they were talking. I could hear them, but I
couldn’t move. It was dreadful. He said if Susan didn’t promise to marry
him he would ring up the police and say I had stolen the pearls. I
fainted again.”

Lamb gave her a long considering look.

“Where were you yesterday evening between five and seven, Miss O’Hara?”

She answered him at once.

“I was in bed. I’ve only just got up. I was ill.”

“Which way does your bedroom window look—back, or front?”

She said, “Back.”

“And your mother’s window?”

“Her room is over the drawing-room. It looks out both ways.”

“You and she were alone in the house?”

“Yes—if Susan and Bill were out.”

“You know Mr. Dale was shot. Do you know if your mother heard anything?”

“I’m sure she didn’t. She would have said.”

“She was in her bedroom between five and seven?”

“Oh, yes. She’s an invalid, you know. She has to rest a great deal. Her
window would be shut. I’m sure she didn’t hear anything, but I can ask
her.”

Lamb said, “Presently. What about you? If your window looks towards
King’s Bourne, you might have heard the shot. Did you?”

She said, “I don’t know——” Her voice was puzzled and distressed.

“How do you mean, you don’t know?”

“I heard—a shot. I don’t know—if it was that shot——”

Lamb spoke quickly.

“What time was it?”

“I don’t know. I was asleep—and I woke up. There was a shot. It was
very faint. I don’t know what time it was—it was quite dark.”

“Did you hear anyone else moving in the house? Your cousin? Mr. Carrick?
Mrs. Mickleham—she was in the house round about half past six—did you
hear her come or go? That would help to fix the time.”

“I didn’t hear anyone,” said Cathy. “I went to sleep again.”




                              CHAPTER XXVI


Mrs. O’Hara did not come down until Inspector Lamb had gone back up the
garden to King’s Bourne. When she had settled herself cosily on the sofa
with a Shetland shawl about her shoulders and her own especial rug to
cover her feet, she showed quite an interest in his visit. It appeared
that she had seen him go.

“And of course, Cathy darling, you ought to have let me know he was
here, because I would have made the effort and come down.”

Cathy was on her knees attending to the fire. She put a small piece of
coal where it would encourage the somewhat weakly flame and said without
turning round,

“How did you know it was the Inspector, Mummy?”

“Darling, you’ve just told me.”

“But the way you said it—it sounded as if you knew who it was when you
saw him out of the window.”

“And so I did. There is something about a policeman’s back—I think I
should know one anywhere, even in quite plain clothes. And, as I said,
darling, I would have made the effort and come down, because I don’t
think you’re really up to these official interviews—and I do hope he
didn’t upset you in any way.”

Cathy put on another piece of coal, balancing it carefully and sitting
back on her heels to observe the effect.

“He was rather a pet, Mummy. I’m so glad it was him and not the young
one.”

“Abbott,” said Mrs. O’Hara—“that’s the name. Mrs. Green has been
telling me about him—she ran in before lunch. She says he is a perfect
gentleman and Lily admires him very much. She’d just been up to see
Lily. And do you know, darling, I can’t help wondering whether he is the
son of Francis Abbott who used to be one of my dancing partners the year
I came out, because Lily Green told her mother his name was Frank——”

“Mummy, there must be thousands of Abbotts.”

Mrs. O’Hara shook her head.

“Oh, no, darling, not as many as that—and I just wondered—that’s all.
Of course, before the war a policeman wouldn’t have been the son of
anyone you danced with, but nowadays people do these things, so there’s
really nothing at all impossible about it. And I should have thought you
would rather have talked to someone like that——”

“Well, I wouldn’t. He’s got eyes like bits of ice, and the sort of pale
manner that makes you feel pale too.”

Mrs. O’Hara produced her knitting from the bag which housed it and began
to knit in a fitful manner.

“Of course, darling, I can’t really see why the Inspector should have
wanted to see you at all. If you were ill in bed, how could you possibly
know anything about poor Mr. Dale’s suicide?”

Cathy got up from her knees and turned round, dusting her hands.

“Mummy, I wish you wouldn’t.”

“Wish I wouldn’t what, darling?” Mrs. O’Hara’s tone was an absent one.
She counted under her breath. “Three, four, five, six—knit one, slip
one—knit two together—oh dear, I’m afraid I’ve got this wrong——”

“Mummy!”

“What is it, darling?”

“I wish you wouldn’t go on saying he committed suicide, because he
didn’t, and you’ll really only make people talk. It’s quite bad enough
without making it any worse.”

Mrs. O’Hara looked a mild reproach.

“Cathy—_darling_—I don’t think you ought to say a thing like that! I
should have thought anyone could see how much better it was for it to be
suicide. But we won’t argue about it. You know, Dr. Carrick always used
to say it was no good arguing with me—I remember being quite flattered
by the way he said it. ‘It’s no good arguing with you’, he said, and he
had quite a twinkle in his eye—‘no good at all, for I have to keep my
feet on the ground, and you’re off on a pair of wings somewhere up in
Cloud-cuckoo land’. Such a charming expression, I thought, but then he
was such a very charming man—darling, I think I’ve dropped a stitch—if
you would just pick it up for me——”

Cathy retrieved the stitch in silence. As she handed the knitting back
she directed a soft imploring look at her mother. Mrs. O’Hara patted her
hand.

“Darling little Cathy,” she said—“I’m glad the Inspector was nice to
you. And now we won’t talk about it any more, shall we?”

Cathy ran out of the room. Her eyes were full of tears, and she was
afraid that if they once began to fall, she would not be able to stop
them, and she was afraid of what she might say. Her heart was full to
bursting with love, and fear, and anxiety. As she went through the hall,
the knocker beat a little fierce rat-tat. She peeped through one of the
long glass slits that looked into the porch, saw Lydia Hammond standing
there tapping an impatient foot, and let her in.

When the door was shut Lydia took hold of her.

“Cathy—you poor little thing! You know I’ve been in town for the
week-end with the Walters. I stayed an extra day—only just got back for
lunch. My dear, what’s been happening—and where’s Susan?”

“She’s out with Bill.” The tears had begun to run down Cathy’s face.

Lydia marched her into the dining-room.

“First I’ll tell you what I’ve heard, and then you can tell me how much
of it’s lies. Look here, Cathy, I give you fair warning, if you faint I
shall pinch you. I’ve got to know what’s happened. Here, sit down. Now
I’ll begin. I hadn’t heard a word till I got home for lunch—I never
read in a train. Well—then there were the parents, too shocked, too
restrained—a most painful tragedy, and the less said about it the
better. Maddening. Of course I got the real dope from old Lizzie. She’s
got six cousins and a sister-in-law in the village, so she could tell me
what they are saying there. But, Cathy, it can’t be true. Do you know,
they’re saying that Susan had thrown Bill over for Lucas Dale, and that
Bill shot him with his own revolver. I told Lizzie it was wicked
nonsense, but when I was coming along I met Mrs. Mickleham, and she
burst into tears right in the middle of the road and said she felt like
a murderess because she heard Bill say he was going to kill Lucas Dale
and her husband made her go and tell the police.”

Cathy was turning paler and paler. She got to her feet with difficulty
and stood holding on to the edge of the dining-table.

“I can’t tell you anything, Lydia,” she said. “And I think, if you don’t
mind, I’ll go and lie down, because I haven’t been very well. Mummy’s in
the drawing-room.”

It was no use. Lydia knew when she was beat. If you pressed Cathy too
hard, she would faint on you. She said crossly,

“I’ve a good mind to pinch you. Can you get upstairs?”

“I think so.”

It ended in Lydia helping her up and depositing her on her bed. She made
a little face at her from the door and tripped downstairs again.

Mrs. O’Hara was delighted to see her. They were old cronies. With a
pouffe pulled up beside the sofa, Lydia settled herself and said,

“How dreadful!”

“Yes, indeed. But of course it might have been worse. We must all try
and look on the bright side, my dear. I’m sure I don’t know where I
should be if I hadn’t learned to do that.”

“But, Mrs. O’Hara, they’re saying that Susan was engaged to him.”

The knitting-needles clicked gently.

“Well, my dear, it would have been worse if they had been married. I was
a widow at nineteen myself, and I could not bear to think of dear Susan
having such a tragic experience.”

“But Mrs. O’Hara, she _wasn’t_ engaged to him—_was_ she?”

The knitting revolved. Mrs. O’Hara began another row.

“Well, my dear, I really can’t tell you. It was quite natural of course
that he should have fallen in love with her, because Susan is a most
charming girl and very like her mother, my dear sister Laura, who was
considered by everyone to be the most charming girl of the season. We
were presented together of course, and everyone admired her so much.”

“And you too,” said Lydia. “What’s the good of being modest? You were
the lovely Bourne twins, and you made a sensation at Court—you know you
did.”

Mrs. O’Hara bridled.

“It’s a long time ago. And Cathy hasn’t my looks, though she’s a dear
child, but I think Susan is just as beautiful as Laura was, and I’d like
her to have a happier life. I don’t think she would really have been
happy with Mr. Dale.”

Lydia was of those who rush in where others fear to tread. Her eyes
sparkled, and she said in a tone of warm interest,

“Do you know, sometimes I think you’re fonder of Susan than you are of
Cathy.”

Milly O’Hara flushed suddenly into the likeness of her own youth. She
said,

“Lydia!” And then, “Not fonder—you mustn’t say that—because Cathy is
my own child. But Susan is Laura’s——”

“And you loved Laura better than yourself, so you love Susan better than
Cathy, and I was right.” Lydia’s voice was soft and teasing.

She got a smile and a shake of the head.

“You mustn’t say that to Cathy—and it wouldn’t be true either. My dear,
will you give me my drops? I forgot to take them when I came down. The
little bottle behind the clock, and you know where to get a glass. Two
tablespoons of water—and let the tap run, because it is really very
nasty if it is lukewarm.”

Lydia came back with the glass, and watched Mrs. O’Hara while she
sipped.

“Aren’t you going to tell me anything? Cathy wouldn’t, but I thought you
would, because we’ve always been friends, and I simply rushed down here
the moment I heard.”

Mrs. O’Hara sipped.

“There is really nothing to tell.”

Lydia shook her head mournfully.

“You’re shutting me right out. You can’t—you really can’t! Do you know
that people are saying Bill did it?”

“People will say anything,” said Mrs. O’Hara, setting down the empty
glass.

“They don’t really disapprove, you know. In a way, Lizzie says, they
rather admire him for it because Mr. Dale had taken his girl. Mrs.
O’Hara, I’ll die if you don’t tell me. Was Susan engaged to him—_was_
she? Because the very last time I saw her we were talking about it, and
I told her she’d be a perfect fool to let such a chance go by—King’s
Bourne and all that money, and anyone could see he was simply
frightfully in love with her. And I said she might go on waiting years
and years for Bill, and then find out he didn’t want to marry her after
all. A cousin of Freddy’s was engaged like that for nine years, and when
he got his promotion, and she’d got her trousseau, he told her he didn’t
think he could go on with it, and he went off and married a frightful
widow who’d come home on the same boat. So it just shows!”

Mrs. O’Hara’s needles clicked.

“I don’t think Bill would do that. Of course he is not really what one
would have called a match for her in the old days—no money, and no
particular family, though of course Dr. Carrick was very much respected
and those things don’t count in the way they used to——”

Lydia leaned forward.

“Did Bill shoot him?”

“My dear Lydia!” Mrs. O’Hara looked very much shocked.

“Oh,” said Lydia, “he might have. And that’s what people are saying.
They remember about his throwing the tramp into the pond, and the time
he threw a croquet ball at Roger. Lizzie was talking about that. It got
him on the temple, and he didn’t come round for half an hour. We all
thought he was dead. Cathy went and hid in the stable loft, and Susan
and I cried ourselves sick, but Bill just stood there as white as a
sheet and never said a word.”

“My dear, he was only eight years old.”

“But it _shows_,” said Lydia. “He never did know what he was doing when
he got into a temper. He _might_ have shot Mr. Dale.”

Mrs. O’Hara shook her head.

“All these speculations are very foolish. In my opinion Mr. Dale
committed suicide. I am very much annoyed with Mrs. Mickleham for
starting all these stories—a clergyman’s wife should be more careful.
You will oblige me by contradicting everything you hear. Susan and Bill
have been engaged for two years, they are still engaged, and there is no
quarrel between them. Bill is to design a house for a Mr. Gilbert
Garnish who sells pickles, and he and Susan are planning to get married
immediately. As I said, there was a time when I should not have
considered him a suitable match for her, but they love each other very
much, and they will be happy. I want Susan to be happy. And now, my
dear, we will change the subject. What news have you of your husband and
of Roger?”




                             CHAPTER XXVII


Mrs. Green “obliged” Mrs. O’Hara on Wednesdays. She came at nine and
scrubbed, cleaned, and polished vigorously until half past twelve.
Whilst her hands moved her tongue was not idle. If there was anyone in
the room, she talked. If she was alone, she lifted a strong unbridled
soprano and sang. On this particular Wednesday she was naturally a good
deal uplifted by the fact that her daughter Lily was almost certain to
be called as a witness at the forthcoming inquest.

“Not that she’s got anything to tell, Miss Susan. And of course I can’t
be too thankful it wasn’t her that found him. Lily’s always been what
you might call easy upset, and you can say what you like, it’s an
upsetting thing for a girl to come in as it might be to draw the
curtains and find a man with the back of his head shot off. Lily, she
managed to slip down last night while Mrs. Raby was having forty winks,
which she _do_, and she said to me as I might be speaking to you now,
‘Mum’, she said, ‘if they’d have arst me to clean up after it, I
couldn’t have done it’. That’s what she said, and I don’t blame her.”

Susan sat down rather suddenly on one of the kitchen chairs.

“_Please_, Mrs. Green——”

Mrs. Green turned round from scrubbing the dresser and patted her on the
shoulder with a fat, damp hand.

“There, my dear—don’t you take on. Lily’s just the same—turned as
white as a sheet when I arst her whether she’d seen him.” She went back
to her scrubbing. “And I told her straight, ‘It’s all very well to say
Oh, Mum! and start looking like a drop of yesterday’s skim milk, but
you’ll have to see all sorts before you’re through, same as I’ve done,
and no good making a mealy mouth over it either. Births and deaths is
things we’ve all got to see’.”

“But not murder,” Susan said in a strained, breathless voice.

Mrs. Green looked quickly over her shoulder and away. She was a fresh,
upstanding woman with a lot of yellow hair and a big rosy face. She had
seen Susan christened, and had seen her nearly every day since then. She
considered that she could say anything she chose within the bounds of
reason, and she was so full of curiosity and kindly feeling that the
reasonable bounds were going to be pushed as far as possible. Because
what she wanted to know was whether William Cole was telling lies when
he said he had heard Mr. Dale asking the Vicar to marry him and Miss
Susan this very Thursday, and she didn’t mean to stir a foot out of the
Little House until she did know. William might be gardener up at the
Vicarage, and he might be walking out with Lily—and she’d no objections
to that—but that wasn’t to say she was going to take everything he said
for gospel. And he might say what he liked, Miss Susan wasn’t the kind
to play fast and loose, because that was a thing you couldn’t hide, no
matter how hard you tried—not from all the other women anyhow. Men, of
course, were shocking easy deceived for all they thought themselves so
clever, and a great temptation it was for the women that had to live
with them. But a woman couldn’t deceive the other women, no matter how
hard she tried. And Miss Susan hadn’t any cause to try, because she
wasn’t that sort.

She picked up her pail and walked to the other end of the dresser. Susan
looked after her. She saw broad shoulders, a strong neck, a large bun of
yellow hair. She thought, “She knows what people are saying. Everyone
will talk to her because of Lily. She’ll know what’s being said up at
the house, and she’ll know what’s being said in the village—she’ll know
whether anyone heard that shot. If it only weren’t so difficult to talk
about it. But I’ve got to—it’s for Bill. We _must_ find someone else
who heard the shot. I’ve got to make her talk.”

Even at that moment she could have laughed at the thought, because the
difficulty was to stop Mrs. Green talking. But she was kind, and Susan
had known her all her life.

Mrs. Green moved her pail again, and started on the kitchen floor. Susan
took hold of her courage and began.

“Mrs. Green—what are they saying about it in the village and—up at the
house? I—I can’t ask anyone else.”

Mrs. Green sat back on her heels with the scrubbing-brush in her hand.

“And who should you ask if it wasn’t me?” she said in a voice of warm
interest and kindness. “And I wouldn’t have spoke of it if you hadn’t
brought it up, though it went to my heart to see you looking the way you
do. But since you have brought it up, well then, what I say is, don’t
you take any notice of what’s been said and they’ll stop taking notice
of you.”

This was not very encouraging.

“But I want to know what is being said.”

“Well, as to that,” said Mrs. Green, dropping her brush back into the
bucket and getting off her heels into a position better suited to
gossip—“as to that, you might say it was a bit of all sorts. There’s
some says it was a tramp—him having those pearls in the house which is
a thing that gets about. And what’s the sense of it, is what I’ve always
said—and him a bachelor gentleman with no one to show them off. So some
says it was a tramp, or burglars from London which comes to the same
thing and a deal pleasanter than having to think that it’s anyone local.
But up at the house Lily says they’re strong for thinking it was the
’Merican gentleman on account of the way Mr. Raby and Robert Stack can
say that he and Mr. Dale were going on. Most uncomfortable Mr. Raby said
it was from the very first minute he come into the house—what you might
call hinting and passing the sort of remarks you don’t pass, not without
you want to make yourself as right down unpleasant as you can, short of
coming plump out with it. All the way through lunch and dinner it’d go
on, Lily says, and Robert Stack coming out of the dining-room with a
grin on his face, and Mr. Raby as vexed as vexed. Lily says it was easy
to see how nervous it made Mr. Phipson. He’s not one that’d like being
mixed up in quarrels, and Lily says he was going about like a cat on hot
bricks. They were all thinking it’d come to a real old-fashioned row
between Mr. Dale and the ’Merican gentleman, because Mr. Dale wasn’t the
sort to put up with a lot of that kind of thing. But nobody thought it’d
come to murder.”

Susan let out a deep breath which made an “Oh!”

Mrs. Green nodded vigorously.

“And well you may say so, Miss Susan. Quarrelling’s what we’ve all done
in our time, and no harm meant and none taken if it don’t go on too
long, which we was brought up to kiss and be friends before sundown, and
a very good rule too. But murder—that’s a regular unnatural thing. Mr.
Raby says the ’Merican gentleman couldn’t adone it along of being in his
bath, and him in his pantry where he could hear the pipes thumping. But
Lily says to me, ‘Why, mum’, she says, ‘that’s all nonsense. The pipes
thumping don’t go for no more than what someone’s been running the taps
upstairs. Bath water running don’t mean the ’Merican gentleman was in it
having his bath’. That’s what Lily says. Nothing to stop him turning on
the taps and coming down and shooting Mr. Dale and up the stairs to the
bathroom—that’s what Lily says. Her and William Cole had the best part
of a quarrel over it because he said she’d no call to say it and ’ud be
getting herself into trouble with the police if she didn’t look out.”

“What does William think?” said Susan.

Mrs. Green was well away. Just a little prod now and then and she would
cover the whole range of Netherbourne opinion. But for some reason this
particular prod seemed to fail of its effect. Mrs. Green reddened to the
roots of her yellow hair. She said with energy,

“William’s nothing to go by. He may be gardener at the Vicarage, but
that don’t say he’s got any more sense than he was made with, and so I
told him.”

Susan was invaded by a dreadful sense of chill. _Gardener at the
Vicarage. . . ._ She said,

“You’d better tell me—it doesn’t matter——”

Mrs. Green tossed her head.

“Well then, my dear, he’s got hold of a pack of rubbish about you and
Mr. Dale—said he heard him fixing up with Vicar to marry you on this
very Thursday that’ll be tomorrow. And he says if he was Mr. Bill he’d
do the same as what he says Mr. Bill done—shoot the life out of anyone
that tried to take his girl. Lily come over as white as a sheet, and I
took and told him to mind his tongue. ‘Lily won’t marry no murderers’, I
said—‘not while I’m her mother’, I said. ‘And it’s late enough and
you’d better be getting along’, I said—‘and you needn’t wait for Lily,
because I’ll be walking up the road with her myself’.”

Susan leaned her forehead upon her hand and said,

“Is it only William—does anyone else think that about Bill?”

“They’re a pack of fools!” said Mrs. Green hotly. “Though mind you,
they’re not blaming him—only one here and there. But I’ll say, and I’ll
stick to it, Mr. Bill never did no such thing—did he, my dear?”

Susan lifted her head.

“No, he didn’t do it. But if the police think he did——” Her voice
failed.

Mrs. Green regarded her with compassion.

“William, he says it was Mrs. Mickleham that put the police on to Mr.
Bill—says she ought to have her neck wrung for it for a cackling old
hen. Seems he’s working round the house putting in wallflower, and what
with the Vicarage windows always open the way they are—and how anyone
can abear the draughts passes me—well, what people says with those open
windows they can’t complain if it’s heard. Crying something dreadful
Mrs. Mickleham was, William said—and Vicar telling her she only done
her duty. Seems she heard Mr. Bill say he was going to kill Mr. Dale,
and Vicar made her tell the police, and now she’s fit to cry her eyes
out. William says it fair sickens him the way he’s got to listen to them
going on about it. He says he don’t suppose he’ll ever fancy wallflowers
again, the way he’s had to plant them and listen to Vicar going on about
a citizen’s duty. Right down irreligious he talked, and I told him I
wouldn’t have it in my house, and if Lily was what I brought her up to
be she wouldn’t have it in hers neither. And he give me a look and says,
‘It’ll be my house’, and out he goes and bangs the door, and Lily she
sets down and cries.”

“Bill didn’t do it,” said Susan. “He wouldn’t do a thing like that. He
was angry, and he said what Mrs. Mickleham heard him say, but—oh, he
didn’t do it, Mrs. Green! The dreadful thing is that no one seems to
have heard the shot except Bill and me. If we could only find someone
else who heard it and knew what time it was, it would help Bill. Mrs.
Green, if there was anyone who did hear it, you’d tell me, wouldn’t you?
I know people don’t like getting mixed up in this sort of thing, but if
you did come to hear anything, you _would_ tell me?”

Mrs. Green nodded emphatically.

“And willing, my dear. Not that I can think of anyone that’d be likely
to hear a shot round about that sort of time. People aren’t so fond of
having their windows open as Vicar and Mrs. Mickleham, and most of them
with the wireless on as like as not, same as the girls up at King’s
Bourne, and a good loud band programme it was too. I like something more
refined myself, but it’s surprising the people that are partial to a
band. And you can’t hear nothing else when it’s on—that’s sure enough.”




                             CHAPTER XXVIII


Frank Abbott walked up and down the study and discoursed on Miss Cora de
Lisle.

“She knows more than she has told, I’ll swear to that. The longer I
think it over, the odder it all looks. I tell you she began by
pretending that Dale had sent me over to get back her precious
fifty-pound note. But she didn’t keep that up. She knew he was dead all
right, and she was scared stiff. Of course she must have known that the
note would be traced.” He laughed. “It was quite obvious that she’d
spent some of it on brandy already. She’d a bottle and glass beside her
when I came in. Now you know, she doesn’t look to me like a regular
soak. I should say she was the sort that goes to it for ginger or for
consolation. She’d had some when she came to see Dale at twelve o’clock
in the day. Well, if she habitually drank at that hour she wouldn’t have
got even the fifth-rate job she’s just been sacked from. She’s the sort
that breaks out, not the sort that does it all the time. Well, on Monday
she’d got the sack, and the company had gone on and left her high and
dry, so she was desperate. Suppose it happened this way. She goes over
to King’s Bourne—and we know she had a good stiff drink to take her
there. She got in past Raby, and she got fifty pounds out of Dale. We
know that, and we know she came back to the Crown and Magpie and had
another double brandy just after the six o’clock bus had gone. After
that, she says, a nice young man gave her a lift back to Ledlington and
she doesn’t know him or his car from Adam. Now suppose she didn’t get
that lift, or at least not then. Suppose the double brandy put it into
her head that it was a pity to go away back to Ledlington with one
fifty-pound note when Lucas Dale had three more of them in his
pocket-book—she’d have seen them, as likely as not when he took out the
one he gave her.”

“That’s supposing,” said Inspector Lamb in a particularly stolid voice.

“I said so, didn’t I? More coming. Suppose she goes round the house the
way she did when she saw Cathy O’Hara—she leaned in at the window and
talked to her, you know. Well, we know that window was open on Monday
evening. She looks in and sees that Dale is alone. She sees too that the
glass door to the terrace is ajar, and she goes round there and walks
in. After that—anything. Cora rather drunk and possibly quite abusive.
Dale, who had just been touched for fifty pounds, certainly very angry.
He may have got out the pistol to frighten her and have put it down on
the table. She may have snatched it. He wouldn’t be really on his guard
with a woman—and a woman who had been his wife. No one will ever know
just the way it went—if it went that way. In the end he’s not taking
any more. He goes to ring the bell, and she shoots him as he turns.”

Lamb pursed his lips.

“Too much imagination—that’s your trouble,” he said. “If she came here
to get those fifty-pound notes, why did she go away without them?”

“Because she was scared out of her life. She’d lost control and killed
him. The only thought she’d have in the world would be to get away
before anyone came—get rid of the revolver and run. And if we find the
nice young man who gave her that lift, I think we’ll find it was nearer
seven than six when he picked her up. Meanwhile I’d like to know whether
they’ve been able to dig up anything about her record at the Yard.”

Lamb nodded.

“There was a call just now.”

“Well, have they got anything?” A keen look had displaced Frank Abbott’s
usual air of languor.

“Depends on what you call anything,” said Inspector Lamb.

“What was it?”

Lamb regarded him composedly.

“All worked up about this, aren’t you—set on making out it was this
Cora de Lisle because young Carrick’s one of your own sort and you like
his girl.”

Frank Abbott whitened.

“You haven’t got any right to say that, Inspector.” Lamb sat back,
filling his chair.

“Well, I’m saying it all the same, my lad—and something else that you
can put to it and keep. You can’t go looking for a criminal and say,
‘This is a chap I like, so he didn’t do it and I’ve got to find someone
else’, or, ‘This chap turns my insides, so he’ll do’. And no need to
look at me like that, young Abbott. When I’ve got something to say I’m
going to say it. See? What we’re looking for every time is facts—lots
of potty little facts that you wouldn’t give a damn for if you took them
one by one, but when you add them up they make something. You can’t
shirk facts, and you can’t bend them. You’ve got to take ’em as they
come and see what they add up to. Perhaps it’s the answer you’d like it
to be, and perhaps it isn’t. That’s not my business nor yours. And
here’s a little fact about Miss Cora de Lisle. She was in a bit of
trouble two years ago over a shooting act at the Old George at Hoxton.
There was another girl, and she got hurt. It wasn’t serious, and there
wasn’t enough evidence to show that it wasn’t just the sort of accident
that does happen once in a way in these turns, but it seems there had
been a quarrel, and if Miss de Lisle wasn’t drunk she was as near it as
makes no matter, and the girl who was hurt went about saying some pretty
nasty things. There’s your fact, Frank, and you can put it away with the
others.”

“Thank you, sir.” Face and voice were both respectfully non-committal.

Lamb looked at him pretty straight and said,

“I wonder. But you will some day, if you don’t now. Now here’s a job for
you. Go down to the Little House and measure the women’s shoes. We
haven’t fixed anyone up with that footprint yet. Pity you couldn’t get
one of Cora de Lisle’s whilst you were about it.”

Frank Abbott half closed his eyes and called up the picture of an
impatient foot in a shabby tinsel shoe.

“Long—narrow—a good deal arched—about nine inches—I’d say she took a
five.”

“And what would you guess Miss Lenox?”

“Oh, hers will be a five. Foot a bit wider than the other, but of course
she was wearing a country shoe, and Cora had on a gimcrack evening
slipper.”

“When she came here on Thursday morning she had on a pair of old black
strap shoes, a good deal trodden over—Miss O’Hara’s description, and
she doesn’t miss much, I should say. Her own feet are too small,” he
added hastily.

“Unless she was wearing Susan’s shoes.”

Lamb turned his shoulder.

“Get along down to it! And be on the look out for any sign of clay on a
shoe. There’s clay where that puddle is—that’s why it holds the
wet—and I haven’t noticed it anywhere else about the place. To my mind,
whoever made the foot-mark had been into that puddle, so you keep a
bright look out for traces of clay.”




                              CHAPTER XXIX


The bells of the Little House rang in the kitchen. Mrs. Green looked
over her shoulder and saw that it was the front door bell which had just
rung. She looked at Susan, who was mixing batter, and Susan nodded.

“If you don’t mind, Mrs. Green——”

Mrs. Green said, “Well, I’ve just about finished that floor,” and got
up. She wiped her hands on her apron and walked through the dining-room
and hall at a leisurely pace, humming Jerusalem the Golden as she went.

The sight of the elegant young man on the doorstep gave her what she
afterwards described to Lily as a turn. “‘Is Miss Lenox at home?’ that’s
what he said, and, ‘Can I see her? I’m Detective Sergeant Abbott’. As if
I didn’t know that, with you describing him to me, let alone me seeing
him with my own eyes coming out of the Crown and Magpie after he’d been
talking to Mr. Pipe. So I left him in the hall, which is good enough for
detectives whether they’re got up to look like gentry or not, and went
and told Miss Susan. And she put her batter to the one side, which if it
was me I wouldn’t have minded keeping him waiting a bit, and washed her
hands under the tap and out she went to him. And what do you suppose he
wanted? Well there, I’d better tell you, for you’d never guess—every
blessed pair of shoes in the house. And the way he looked them over, if
he’d taken a magnifying glass to them I wouldn’t have been surprised.”

Susan, accompanying Frank Abbott on his round of inspection, began by
wondering what he could possibly want with their shoes, and ended with
the conviction that the answer was a very frightening one. She met his
first demand with incredulity.

“You want to see our shoes?”

“If you don’t mind, Miss Lenox.”

Of course this was the merest form, because, however much she minded, it
would make no difference to this polite and inexorable young man.

She took him upstairs to Cathy’s room first. Cathy had gone down to the
village, so there would be one pair of shoes unaccounted for, but when
he had looked at the others, from the little silver slippers to the
brogues which looked as if they had been made for a child, Detective
Sergeant Abbott didn’t seem to think it mattered about the missing pair.

“Your cousin has a very small foot. I suppose she takes a four.”

“A small four. These”—Susan touched the silver slippers—“these are
only three and a half.”

He appeared to lose interest after that, and she took him along the
passage to Mrs. O’Hara’s door, where she knocked.

Mrs. O’Hara said “Come in” in her plaintive voice, and Susan opened the
door.

Frank Abbott, not at all embarrassed, entered a bedroom which contained
more furniture than he could have believed possible. The room was of a
fair size, running through the house from front to back, but the suite
of mahogany furniture imported from King’s Bourne stood around the walls
in gloomy, towering masses and reduced the floor space to a minimum.
There was a four-poster bed with a canopy. There was a vast wardrobe.
There were chests of drawers, a double wash-stand with a marble top, two
bedside tables, a large dressing-table, a pier glass, and various
chairs. An elderly but still handsome carpet covered the floor and
disappeared beneath the furniture. There was no colour-scheme. The
curtains, of a nondescript brocade, were quite unrelated to the bed
furnishings, which were of an uninteresting blue, or to the carpet,
which was passing from its original crimson and green to a dull rose and
grey.

Mrs. O’Hara, in a mauve dressing-gown, occupied a massive easy chair
upholstered in one of those Victorian tapestries which were designed not
to show the dirt. After some forty years of wear the stuff was still
intact, but all traces of pattern were now submerged in a general olive
gloom. It had not occurred to the generation which had evolved all this
solid, deep-toned mahogany, or to Mrs. O’Hara who had inherited it, that
its warm red-brown might be repeated, heightened, illustrated by a whole
range of beautiful shades from chestnut and terra cotta through rosy
gold to golden rose.

Mrs. O’Hara smiled graciously upon Frank Abbott, and appeared to find
nothing unusual in his request to be allowed to see her shoes.

“Really, it is quite like Cinderella,” she remarked. She looked
complacently at the toe of her small black velvet slipper. “Do you want
me to take this pair off? Susan my dear——”

“They look very nice where they are,” said Frank Abbott, gravely.

His eye glanced along the row of shoes which Susan had produced from the
wardrobe—brocade, glacé, suede, satin, all with an arched instep, a
high heel, and an appearance of extreme fragility. Size four again, and
not one that could possibly have made that footprint on the study
carpet. He looked up quickly at Susan and said,

“What about outdoor shoes?”

She detached the thin pair of glacé kid and pushed them forward an inch,
kneeling on the faded carpet and not looking at him.

“I’m afraid she hasn’t got any.”

Mrs. O’Hara allowed the smile of a brave invalid to relax her pretty,
pale lips.

“You see, I never go out—at least not during the winter—and not in the
summer unless it is quite warm and dry, and that is so very seldom. And
I hardly walk at all. My health is not what I should like it to be, I am
sorry to say.”

Frank Abbott had seen all he wanted to, but he lingered for some social
minutes, making sympathetic conversation, agreeing that the season was a
mild one compared with last year, and picking up and restoring a ball of
wool, a spare knitting-needle, and a small embroidered handkerchief.
After which he made his farewells with address and followed Susan back
along the passage to her own room.

She stopped in the doorway and said with sudden energy,

“What are you looking for, Mr. Abbott?”

His face remained expressionless even when he smiled. It was a smile
that said nothing, and his eyes were cold. He murmured, “Sergeant”, and
left the question unanswered.

She repeated it.

“What are you looking for?”

“I don’t quite know. I’m looking at shoes under orders from my superior
officer. May I look at yours?”

She set them out as she had done the others—two pairs of brown
walking-shoes, one a little heavier than the other, a pair of dark blue
house shoes, an old brown pair, some evening slippers.

He ran his eye down the line and picked up the heavy walking-shoes.
These were the right size, the right shape. He turned them about and
about. They were clean and polished. There was no clay on them, no sign
that the left foot—the print was a left-foot print—had trodden in a
puddle of clay on Monday night. He wondered if it had.

“When did you wear these last, Miss Lenox?”

“Yesterday. I’ve been wearing them every day.”

He put them down and picked up the lighter pair.

“And when did you last wear these?”

Susan said, “I don’t know.”

He was turning them in his hand.

“Have you had them on today?”

“Oh, no.”

“Yesterday?”

She shook her head.

“No—I’ve been wearing the others. They’re thicker.”

“Did you wear this pair on Monday?”

Monday was so far away that she had to force her thoughts back to it.
She had not been out all day on Monday until she ran out through the
scullery to follow Bill up the garden way to King’s Bourne. She touched
the old brown house shoes.

“No—these are what I was wearing on Monday.”

“All day?”

“All day.”

“You didn’t stop to change them before following Mr. Carrick up the
garden?”

The thought of her agony of haste left her dumb. She shook her head.

“You were in too great a hurry?”

“Yes.”

“Why?”

She was silent.

“You were afraid of what Mr. Carrick might do?”

She lifted her eyes to his and said,

“He didn’t shoot him—he really didn’t.”

Frank Abbott was inclined to believe her. Old Lamb would say that it was
because the dark blue eyes which were looking straight into his were
quite unreasonably easy to look at. But it wasn’t that at all. She might
have had the handsomest eyes in the world and he could still have
believed her to have a guilty knowledge. No, it was something else—a
kind of simplicity.

He withdrew an appraising gaze, diverting it to the pair of shoes in his
hand. They had not the polish of the thicker pair. He discarded the
right shoe and turned the other one over. It had been worn and wiped,
not cleaned or polished. Rather roughly wiped too, for where the upper
joined the sole there was a muddy smear and a caking of what looked
uncommonly like clay. He frowned at it and said,

“I am afraid I must ask you to let me take this pair.”

Susan frowned too.

“What do you mean? Why should you take them? What do you want them for?”

“You can’t make a guess?”

“Of course I can’t.”

He said, looking past her,

“This shoe stepped in a puddle. I think it was that puddle half way up
the hill. It stepped in it, and it came out sticky with clay, and after
that—after that, Miss Lenox, it stepped on the study floor up at King’s
Bourne and left a print there.”

It was at this moment that Mrs. Green, unable to bear the dull solitude
of the kitchen any longer, looked round the open door and saw, as she
told Lily afterwards, “every drip and drab of colour go clean out of
Miss Susan’s face”.




                              CHAPTER XXX


Mr. Montague Phipson walked down the garden in the direction of the
Little House. He wore a worried and preoccupied air. Everything was
really very difficult, very difficult indeed. The atmosphere of gloom
and officialdom pervading the house—the impending inquest—the
impending funeral—the extreme uncertainty of his own position—and
nothing, literally nothing, sacred from the prying activities of the
police. He had reason to believe that even the fragments of his torn-up
letter to Evangeline Bates had been abstracted from the waste-paper
basket in his room and carefully pieced together. In the circumstances
he could not be too thankful that he had not in any way committed
himself. It was just a warm letter of friendship, no more, but that
correspondence even of a platonic nature should be subjected to the
scrutiny of the police was a most disturbing occurrence. And as if all
this were not enough, there was the continued presence in the house of
Mr. Vincent Bell, a person so uncongenial that prolonged association
with him would at any time have been a trial. In the present delicate
situation Mr. Bell’s jaunty air, his cheerful voice, his frank admission
that he considered Mr. Dale no particular loss to a world which he had
very successfully exploited, was extremely distasteful.

Mr. Phipson had ventured to express this view to Inspector Lamb that
very morning. He had seen his opportunity and had nerved himself to take
it. The Inspector, a stolid person, had gazed at him with eyes which
really had a most extraordinary resemblance to bull’s-eyes—the round,
old-fashioned, peppermint-flavoured kind—and said,

“Well, I expect you’ll be getting rid of him as soon as the inquest is
over, Mr. Phipson. Moving on yourself too, I dare say?”

Not a very helpful way of putting it—not tactful. But of course one
didn’t expect tact from the police. He had responded with dignity that
he really could not say what his plans might be, but that if, as he
understood, Mr. Duckett the solicitor and Miss Lenox were the executors
under Mr. Dale’s will, they would probably be glad of his assistance in
settling up the estate.

He thought the Inspector’s manner rather off-hand as he inquired how he
knew that Mr. Duckett and Miss Lenox were the executors, and he was
rather pleased with the dignity of his own reply.

“In my capacity as Mr. Dale’s confidential secretary, would you consider
it strange that I should have prepared a rough draft embodying the
points which Mr. Dale desired should be incorporated in the will?”

The Inspector’s reply was still more off-hand.

“In the circumstances, very strange indeed.”

He had downed him though, he had downed him, because he had been able to
produce the draft, and neither the Inspector nor anyone else was to know
that it was a copy of Mr. Dale’s own notes.

And why not? And why not, if you please? A secretary who was conversant
at all points with his employer’s business was in a position of
considerable strategic importance. There were times when knowledge
became a very valuable thing. Mr. Phipson rather thought that this was
one of those times.

He walked slowly down the orchard path between the apple, pear and plum
trees which would be sheeted with pink and white blossom in another two
months time. He went round the house to the front door, knocked, and was
pleased when Susan herself opened it. They had not met since the day
when she had talked with Lucas Dale in the rose garden. That was
Thursday—the day Lucas Dale had proposed to her—the day Vincent Bell
had arrived—the day that all this horrible business had begun. It was
not quite a week ago, but it felt like years. Susan looked at him across
the gap and felt dizzy.

But Mr. Phipson was quite at his ease. He said, “May I come in?” and
when she moved away from the door and they were in the hall he led the
way to the drawing-room and made the careful little speech which he had
prepared.

“May I offer my condolences, Miss Lenox, and, if you will accept them,
my services?”

Susan stopped feeling dizzy, and could have laughed. What a ridiculous
little man he was, with his dignity and his absurd stilted speeches.
They had been meeting continually for months, but they were still Miss
Lenox and Mr. Phipson, though he called Cathy by her name. Susan and
Cathy and Bill had always called him Fibs behind his back. Cathy said he
crept and crawled, and Bill said he was like one of those pale, flat,
jointed insects which you turn up under a stone. If he only knew——She
said as quickly as possible,

“It’s frightful—isn’t it? It was nice of you to come.”

She supposed this was a call. They sat down, Susan in one corner of the
sofa, Montague Phipson in the other. He gazed, cleared his throat, and
said,

“I wished to lose no time in offering you my services.”

Susan hesitated.

“That’s very kind of you.”

He shook his head.

“I am entirely at your disposal.”

Susan thought, “If Fibs is going to propose to me, I shall scream.” She
said in a controlled voice,

“It sounds very kind, but I don’t really know what you mean.” And then
she had a panic, because if he was thinking of proposing, she didn’t
want to know what he meant, and he would be certain to think she did.

Mr. Phipson looked atrociously solemn and important. If he had belonged
to an earlier generation he would have addressed Susan as “My dear young
lady”.

“When I said I was at your service, I was alluding to the trying and
protracted business of settling so large an estate as Mr. Dale’s. You
will certainly require assistance, and I think you will agree that there
is no one so well qualified as myself.” He shifted his pince-nez and
gazed at her through the lenses. “Without any failure of modesty, I
think I can say that.”

Well, he wasn’t proposing. But this was almost as bad, because if it
meant anything at all, it meant that he knew about Lucas Dale’s will.
She winced from the thought and said,

“I don’t know what you mean.”

His gaze sharpened, shifted, and then came back to dwell upon her with a
certain quality of reproach.

“You don’t really mean that, Miss Lenox.”

The colour of anger came to Susan’s face.

“I think you had better explain.”

Mr. Phipson desired nothing better.

“Certainly, Miss Lenox. As you are probably aware, I was a good deal in
Mr. Dale’s confidence, and I am naturally aware that he made a new will
on the very day of his death. I am also aware of the terms of that will.
Mr. Duckett and yourself are the executors, and you are the sole
legatee. I naturally assume——”

Without waiting to hear what Mr. Phipson assumed, Susan broke in
vehemently.

“It’s all a dreadful mistake! The will should never have been made!”

“But it was made, Miss Lenox. I believe it is perfectly in order, and
that Mr. Duckett will be coming to see you about it as soon as this very
painful business of the inquest is over. I understand it is to take
place on Friday, and——”

Susan broke in again.

“Mr. Phipson, all this has nothing to do with me—that will has nothing
to do with me. Mr. Dale made a dreadful mistake. I couldn’t possibly
take anything.”

Mr. Phipson’s mouth fell open, his pince-nez fell off. He considered
that his ears must have deceived him. He could not possibly have heard a
penniless young woman assert that she intended to refuse a fortune.
Things like that didn’t happen. As he replaced his glasses he fully
intended to ensure that this rule held good.

“You are the sole legatee,” he repeated.

“Not if I won’t!”

“My _dear_ Miss Lenox!”

Susan’s eyes were dark with indignant distress. A bright colour burned
in her cheeks.

“Nothing would induce me to take a penny of it!”

“That,” said Mr. Phipson, “is nonsense.”

“I don’t think so. I couldn’t possibly take it.”

“I hope you will change your mind.”

Someone else had said that to her—someone else—Lucas Dale—on the far
side of the gap that had opened so suddenly between Monday and all the
time that went before. Lucas Dale had said it when he had asked her to
marry him. And she had said no—and she had changed her mind—or had it
changed for her. The words put a chill upon her angry mood. She said,
“No,” and he repeated them.

“I hope you will. I can’t tell you just what the estate is worth—Mr.
Duckett will be able to do that—but there is at least four hundred
thousand pounds invested in this country, and the American holdings come
to as much again or more.”

The cold and the anger had fused. Susan felt an icy rage. She said in a
level voice,

“It has nothing to do with me. Please stop talking about it, Mr.
Phipson.”

“Oh, but I am afraid I can’t—I can’t do that. You see, Miss Lenox, it
is very important indeed that you should accept this bequest.” He leaned
forward a little. “If you will allow me——”

Susan said, “No.”

She heard him make a small, vexed sound, and wondered at his
pertinacity. It appeared that he was not at all prepared to let the
subject drop.

“If you please, Miss Lenox, I would just like to clarify the position.
There is this large fortune which is actually and legally yours. If you
refuse it, what happens to it? There are no relatives—I have heard Mr.
Dale say he had not a relation in the world. It will revert to the
Crown.”

“I don’t care what happens to it,” said Susan bluntly.

Mr. Phipson looked a good deal shocked.

“But it is your duty to care, Miss Lenox. Consider for a moment. Mr.
Dale in leaving everything to you placed a very great responsibility
upon your shoulders. There were bequests which he should have
made—which he might have made if he had taken a little more time to
consider. I happen to know that he intended to consider these bequests
at leisure after his marriage.”

Susan said steadily, “It was all a mistake. I should never have married
him. That is why I can’t take the money.”

Inconceivable folly—really quite inconceivable. He made the same vexed
sound again.

“I hope you will hear me out. You are, if I may say so, in the position
of a trustee. If you refuse, those people who would have received
bequests will lose their money. Your aunt, Mrs. O’Hara, is one of them.
Cathy is another. He intended to provide for them, but had not decided
on the exact amounts. If you refuse, you will deprive them of the
benefits he intended.”

Susan flared.

“If he intended it, why didn’t he do it? And how do you know what he
intended?”

Mr. Phipson looked so smug that she could have slapped him.

“I was more in his confidence than you seem to think. You must
understand that this will was in the nature of a gesture. He wished, I
think, to impress you, to be able to come to you and say, ‘Look at
this—I have left you everything.’ He did tell you that—didn’t he?”

The anger died out of Susan, the cold stayed. Yes, Lucas Dale had done
that. She remained silent.

Mr. Phipson said, “I see he did. It was a gesture. No one would really
leave so large a fortune to a single person and make no provision for
those who had served him. He intended to make a new will in the
immediate future. Naturally, he could have had no idea that for him
there was to be no future.”

Susan shuddered. The words called up a picture of Lucas Dale as she had
last seen him—a dominant, vital figure, proud, handsome, sure of his
power to take what he wanted from life. No, he hadn’t expected to die
almost before the ink on that will was dry.

Mr. Phipson went on speaking.

“You see now what I meant when I said that you were in the position of a
trustee towards those people who would have received bequests under the
will he intended to make.”

Susan felt as if the room had grown smaller, as if the walls were
closing in. The crowding furniture stood about her and Montague Phipson
and closed them in. She was too near him. It was like being in a trap.
She had been in a trap from which Dale’s death had released her. She saw
the will now mainly as another trap, closing down. With a vehement
revulsion she cried,

“Who are these people—besides Cathy and Aunt Milly? How do I know that
he wanted to leave them anything? And how do you know? What has it got
to do with you?”

She had a feeling that the room shook. And then that some violent clash
had shaken her. And then that it was her own anger—because she wasn’t
used to being angry like this. It couldn’t have anything to do with
Fibs, because he was looking at her quite mildly through his thick
lenses and saying,

“There was Mrs. O’Hara, and Cathy—I told you that. And a sum for Mr.
Vincent Bell, though he had, I believe, not quite made up his mind about
that. Some provision for a woman who had been his wife, a Miss de
Lisle—I suppose you knew that he had been married. Money bequests to
any servants who might have been with him for more than a year.
And—well, I have no reason to conceal it—a substantial recognition of
my own services.”

Something in Susan’s mind gave a small mocking laugh and said, “Now
we’re getting there!” There was a glint of satire behind the deep blue
of the eyes she turned upon him.

“I see.” She got up rather quickly. “I can’t take the money. I don’t
think we’d better go on discussing it, because it’s no use. I can’t take
it.”

Mr. Phipson got up too. He fumbled in a pocket and brought out a large
square envelope which he held towards her without speaking. Susan took
it, lifted the flap, which was not fastened down, and drew out something
small in a wrapping of tissue paper. She looked at it doubtfully.

“What is this?”

Mr. Phipson took it from her, opened it, and displayed in the middle of
a tissue paper square a small, fine linen handkerchief. An initial S was
visible upon one of the up-turned corners.

He said, “I think this is yours,” and watched her colour fade.

“I don’t know——”

“I am sure you do. Even I know that it is one of a set Cathy gave you at
Christmas. I have watched her embroidering the initials.”

She put out her hand to take it, and he went back a step.

“You don’t ask me where I found it.”

“Does it matter?”

“It matters very much. Or shall I say that it would matter very much if
Inspector Lamb were to know where I found it? There is no need for him
to know.”

Susan looked at him. One of those jointed insects that you turn up under
a big stone—pale, brittle, and faintly repulsive, but quite, quite
harmless. Fibs—just how harmless was Fibs? They had always laughed at
him——

She said firmly, “Where did you find it?”

Mr. Phipson said, “Ah!”

“Where did you find it?”

“You don’t know?”

“I shouldn’t ask you if I did.”

“You didn’t miss it?”

“Why should I?”

Mr. Phipson said, “True—you would not necessarily know where you had
dropped it.”

“Where did I drop it?” said Susan, and wondered why her lips should feel
so stiff.

He looked at her—pale—brittle—faintly unpleasant.

“You dropped it when Mr. Dale was shot. It was found beside his body.”

Susan looked back at him. He was still there, but she could not see him,
because the air had thickened between them—thickened and grown dark.
She moved away from him, a step at a time, very carefully, until she
touched the sofa. She sat down, leaned back into the corner, and heard
him say,

“I am afraid that was a shock. Would you like me to fetch you a glass of
water?”

She heard herself say “No.”

“Are you sure? I will wait until you are quite yourself again.”

Susan shut her eyes and called up all the strength and courage she
possessed. The darkness passed from her eyes and from her mind. She said
in quite a clear, steady voice,

“It was horrible to hear you say that. But I don’t know what you mean. I
never went into the room. My handkerchief couldn’t have been there.”

Mr. Phipson cleared his throat.

“Miss Lenox, this is waste of time. Consider whether it would not be
better to be frank with me. You are doubtless aware that Raby found Mr.
Dale at a quarter to seven. He did not wait to make any examination, but
rushed upstairs to fetch me in a state of horror and distress. We
entered the room together, and as I bent over the body I saw this
handkerchief lying crumpled up near the feet. I do not know whether Raby
noticed it or not—I do not think that he did. He was groaning aloud and
averting his head. I recognized the handkerchief at once and put it in
my pocket. If I were not your friend, would I have run this considerable
risk? Had you not better be frank with me and let me help you?”

Susan said, “I couldn’t have dropped it. I wasn’t there.”

“Somebody dropped it,” said Mr. Phipson. “Cathy gave you the
handkerchiefs. Perhaps she picked it up—perhaps she dropped it.”

Susan said, “She was ill—Cathy was ill.”

“Somebody dropped that handkerchief,” said Mr. Phipson.

There was a long silence. Susan looked down into her lap and saw the
knuckles whiten where one hand clasped the other. She thought quick and
clear, “I didn’t drop it. Somebody dropped it. Somebody wore my shoes.
Cathy? Aunt Milly? _Impossible._” Was it impossible? She had come to the
place where possible and impossible met, mixed, parted, and came
together again like the reflections in broken water. She could not tell
real from unreal, unreal from real. Two things emerged with clarity—the
handkerchief, and Fibs who had brought it to her. Now just why had he
brought it? And why had he spoken about the will first—the will and
Lucas Dale’s intention of recognizing his secretary’s valuable services?
She thought Mr. Montague Phipson looked upon her as the heir to that
intention. She thought he was there to drive a bargain. She thought she
was to make Lucas Dale’s intention good. She wondered if it had ever
existed, and what she was going to do about it. Suppose she snatched the
handkerchief out of his hand and went straight up the hill to Inspector
Lamb. Cathy—Aunt Milly—she couldn’t do that. She didn’t know what she
could do.

She lifted her head and said, “Why?”

“Why, Miss Lenox?”

Susan spread out her hands.

“All this—the will—the handkerchief. What is it all about—what does
it mean—what do you want?”

He smiled a polite and formal smile.

“I want to help you, Miss Lenox. I am your friend. I should like to know
that we are to work together in friendly association. I am——” He
cleared his throat again. “Frankly, Miss Lenox, I am without any
resources to fall back upon. Mr. Dale’s death has been a great blow to
me. If I could feel assured of a continuance of my present salary and
something on account of the legacy which Mr. Dale intended me to
have——”

The sheer impudence of it took Susan’s breath away. She came to her feet
with the strength of anger.

“Mr. Phipson!”

He said, “Careful, Miss Lenox—I really do advise you to be careful.
Once I have laid this evidence before the police there will be no
turning back.”

Susan caught her breath, caught back the words which that breath should
have carried. She could hold them now, but once spoken they would be
beyond recall. And if she made this man her enemy, what would be the end
of it? She didn’t know. No one could possibly tell. With a very great
effort she forced her voice to a quiet tone.

“Mr. Phipson, I don’t know what to say. You must give me a little time.”

He echoed her words with a difference.

“A little time? Oh, certainly, Miss Lenox, but it would really have to
be a little time. I will call again tomorrow.”




                              CHAPTER XXXI


Susan shut the front door behind Montague Phipson and stood there
leaning against it. The solid, old-fashioned brass door-knob was cold in
her hand. She didn’t know how long it was before she straightened
herself and turned. She was not faint. Faintness would have been a
relief. She went slowly through the hall and up the stair to where her
door faced Cathy’s across the narrow passage.

Cathy’s door was ajar, and Susan could hear her moving. With sudden
energy she pushed open the door and went in, shutting it behind her.
Cathy, on her knees before a pulled-out drawer, looked round and showed
a startled face. She was still exceedingly pale, and her eyes had
smudges under them. She said rather quickly,

“I was turning out this drawer.”

Susan sat down on the bed. She was so tired that it would be easy just
to sit here—pull up the pillows and lean back—leave unsaid the things
she had come here to say. It would be easy, but she couldn’t do it—she
had to go on.

She said, “Cathy——”

“Yes?”

“Cathy, are you all right again?”

“Yes—I am, really—you needn’t worry about me.”

Susan shook her head. There was more to worry about than Cathy’s health.
She said,

“Then I want to ask you about Saturday. I want to know how much you
heard.”

Cathy bent over a little pile of underclothes. Her hand shook as she
picked them up one by one and laid them back in the drawer. She said,

“I fainted.”

“Yes, I know you did, but you didn’t go on fainting. Mr. Dale and I were
talking. I want to know how much you heard.”

Cathy looked over her shoulder. It was an involuntary frightened
movement.

“Please—don’t let’s talk about it.”

“Do you suppose I want to talk about it? I’ve got to. I’ve got to know
how much you heard.”

Cathy began to tremble. She had been kneeling. She got up and came
towards the bed.

“Oh, Susan, I wouldn’t have let you do it—I wouldn’t really.”

“Then you did hear what he said.”

Cathy sank down at the foot of the bed. She had a defenceless look which
went to Susan’s heart. She said in a whispering voice,

“I couldn’t let you do it, could I—even if he sent me to prison.”

Susan looked at her and wondered. Was it Cathy? Could it have been
Cathy? In anything except a nightmare the answer would be “No”. But they
had got far from daylight and its ways, and in a dream like this any
impossible thing might wear a possible shape. She said,

“You heard everything. You knew I was going to marry him.”

Cathy drooped against the bed foot. Her hands plucked at one another.

“I couldn’t have let you do it. Oh, Susan, I _couldn’t_!”

“What could you have done?” said Susan wearily. Then, with sudden
energy, “Cathy, what _did_ you do?”

Cathy sat up.

“I don’t know what you mean.”

“Look here, you’ve got to tell me—I’ve got to know. We’re all groping
round in the dark, and I can’t bear it any longer. If one of us did it,
I’ve got to know who it was. No—don’t say anything yet—you’ve got to
listen. Mr. Abbott came here yesterday evening and looked at all our
shoes. Someone left a muddy foot-mark on the study floor. My brown shoe
fits it. Cathy, I cleaned those shoes on Friday, and I haven’t worn them
since. I cleaned them and I polished them, and I haven’t worn them
since. But somebody has. When I turned them out for Mr. Abbott to see,
they had been worn, and wiped—not cleaned or polished. And the left one
had trodden in clay—you can see the mark quite plainly. That’s what he
was looking for—a shoe that had stepped in that clayey puddle up the
garden and then made that footprint on the study floor.”

“Anyone might step in that puddle—I’m always doing it.” Cathy’s voice
came quick and frightened.

“I don’t—ever. Besides I wasn’t wearing the shoes—I haven’t worn them
since Friday. But somebody wore them. Somebody wore them, and trod in
that puddle, and made the foot-mark on the study floor, and dropped one
of my handkerchiefs by Mr. Dale’s body. And I’ve got to know who it
was.”

Cathy said “Your handkerchief?” in a trembling voice.

“One of the set you gave me for Christmas, with my initial. Fibs has got
it.”

The colour came faintly to Cathy’s face.

“I thought you meant the police!” She got the last word out with a gasp.
“He won’t tell them, will he? He—oh, we’ve laughed at him, but we’ve
always been quite friends—he won’t tell.”

Susan bit her lip—hard.

“Not if I make it worth his while not to. Fibs has his price. I’m to
take Mr. Dale’s money and pay him the legacy which he thinks he ought to
have, and then I can have my handkerchief again, and he’ll forget he
ever saw it.”

“He said that?”

“No, he didn’t say it, but that’s what he meant. It was all most
beautifully wrapped up, but that’s what he meant. And that’s why I’ve
got to know who wore my shoes, because if it was you or—or Aunt Milly,
I can’t just tell him to go and drown himself.”

Cathy broke in with surprising energy.

“Susan, you’re mad! No, darling, I don’t mean that of course—but you’re
not well—it’s all the strain. Only you mustn’t drag Mummy into it. Why,
if it wasn’t so serious, we should laugh at the idea of her going out on
a cold, damp night, when she hasn’t been out of the house for months.
Just think what you’re saying. And, darling, do lie down and have a
rest. You’ve been doing far, far too much, and it’s all my miserable
selfish fault.”

Susan’s eyes burned blue. She looked at Cathy and said,

“They think Bill did it—they’ll arrest him any time now. They’ll think
I was there—they’ll arrest me too. Don’t you see I’ve got to know where
we are? If one of us did it, I’ve got to know who it was. I can’t let
them arrest Bill—I _can’t_.”

There was a silence. Then Cathy said in a small, shaking voice,

“If they knew that someone else had worn your shoes, would it stop them
arresting Bill?”

Susan threw out her hands.

“I don’t know—I think it would. I can’t really think at all, but if
someone else was there it means someone else might have shot Mr. Dale,
or—no, I didn’t mean that, but they might have seen something or heard
something—oh, don’t you see, if there was anyone else there at all, it
would make things better for Bill.”

Cathy made a wringing motion with her hands and said,

“I didn’t shoot him.”

Susan found herself on her feet without any notion of how she had got
there. She was on her feet. She had Cathy by the shoulders and she was
saying,

“Was it you? Did you wear my shoes? Did you—_did_ you?”

“I didn’t shoot him.”

“But you wore my shoes—you went up to King’s Bourne.”

“Yes——” The word was practically inaudible.

“Why?”

“To tell him—to tell him—you couldn’t—marry him.”

“What happened—_Cathy_——”

“He was dead——” It was just a sighing whisper.

“What did you do?”

“I went in—and I looked at him—then I came away——”

“Did you hear the shot? Did you see anyone?”

Cathy shook her head.

“I didn’t see anyone.”

“But you heard the shot—you must have heard the shot.”

Cathy shook her head again. It was the same mournful gesture.

“I didn’t hear anything at all.”




                             CHAPTER XXXII


“That’s what she says.”

Susan and Bill were in the drawing-room, standing close together at the
French window which opened upon the garden. Two steps led down to a
paved place where Mrs. O’Hara sometimes sat in very hot weather. Beyond
the paving there was a border with snowdrops and crocuses just pushing
up through the dark soil. And beyond the border and a little to the left
the ground began to rise and the path went up the hill to King’s Bourne.

“She must have heard the shot,” said Bill. “And I don’t see why she
didn’t bump into us either going or coming, unless——” He stopped on
the word, took Susan by the shoulder, and pulled her round so that they
faced each other. “Look here—did Cathy shoot him?”

It marked the distance they had travelled that Susan made no real
protest. She said in a tired voice,

“Oh, no—she couldn’t—not Cathy.”

Bill frowned deeply.

“I don’t know—I don’t think you can cut it out like that. She’d had a
bad shock—she was in a queer state—she’d heard him blackmailing you.
By her own account of it she woke up and felt she had to tell him that
she wouldn’t let you marry him. She didn’t dress. That shows that she
wasn’t normal. She took a coat and your shoes. Now why did she take your
shoes? They must have simply slopped about on her feet.”

“I don’t know. Hers may have been downstairs. I suppose she was dazed.”

He gave an emphatic nod.

“There you are. She was dazed. She went up there with the idea that
she’d got to stop him marrying you. She wouldn’t have shot him if she
had been herself. But that’s the whole point—she wasn’t herself.
Suppose she went up there and he wouldn’t listen to her—laughed at
her—perhaps threatened her——”

All Susan’s colour was gone. She said “No” in a kind of horrified
whisper.

“It’s no good saying ‘No’. It might have been that way, and if she had
run out on to the terrace at once she could have got away before I got
there—I don’t know——”

Susan shook her head.

“You’ve forgotten about the glass door. It was shut, or nearly shut,
when you came up the steps and went along to the side window. It must
have been, or you would have noticed it, because the first thing you did
notice when you came back was that the glass door was open. Someone must
have opened it in the time between your leaving the terrace and coming
back again.”

He said, “I had forgotten. But if someone opened that door—why, then it
fits. Don’t you see how it fits? Cathy was there between the curtain and
the door. She may have seen me look in at the window, and when I turned
away she pushed the door and ran out. If she went down the far steps she
wouldn’t meet you.”

Susan said “No” again, and this time her voice was strong. “It couldn’t
have been Cathy—I can’t believe it. Don’t you see it’s all wrong? He
wouldn’t have got that pistol out to frighten Cathy—he had plenty of
other things to frighten her with. And you can’t believe that Cathy went
right round the table and got the pistol out, and then got behind him
and shot him while he just sat there and did nothing. It doesn’t begin
to make sense. No, I think she came up after we had gone and saw him
lying there. There was plenty of time for her to come and go before Raby
found him at a quarter to seven. And that would explain why she didn’t
hear the shot. She mightn’t have heard it if she was still in her
room—the windows were shut—Aunt Milly didn’t hear anything——” Her
voice trailed away.

She said suddenly and sharply,

“That doesn’t help you. Oh, Bill, it doesn’t help you at all.”

“No.” He laughed. “We had our exits and our entrances, hadn’t we? They
might have been timed. Perhaps the counsel for the prosecution will take
hold of that—I shouldn’t wonder. Anyhow the moral dilemma is off. We
haven’t got to make up our minds to be noble and let me be hanged in
order to save Cathy, because so far as I’m concerned I don’t see that
her story makes a pennorth of difference. She may have been there before
me, or she may have been there after me, but unless she’s going to say
she did it, this story of hers is neither here nor there, and she’d
better keep her mouth shut. Rub that into her good and hard. There’s
absolutely no sense in dragging her in—absolutely none. What you can do
is to press her just as hard as you can about whether she was behind the
curtain when I looked in at the window. You can just see the window from
that door.”

“Then you could see the door from the window.”

“I suppose I could. Yes, of course I could. And the curtain was
drawn—yes, I’m sure about that. She must have been there. Press her as
hard as you can.”

Susan shook her head.

“It’s no good—she says the same thing every time. She stood just inside
the door and saw him lying on the floor. She went right up to him and
saw that he was dead. She must have dropped my handkerchief then. She
was dreadfully frightened and she ran away. She says she came down the
near steps. If she was behind the curtains when you were looking in at
the window she would have passed me going down the garden. No, it wasn’t
Cathy behind that curtain. If there was anyone there, it wasn’t Cathy,
and we’ve got to find out who it was.”

He made a sudden movement. His voice was heavy with discouragement.

“Susan, it’s no use—we’re trying to make bricks without straw. The
curtain was drawn, and there isn’t a scrap of proof that there was
anyone behind it.”

“The door,” said Susan urgently—“the door! It wasn’t open when you
passed it to go to the window, but it was open when you came back.
Someone opened it.”

“I don’t know—I couldn’t swear to all that about the door. I’ve thought
about it till I can’t think straight. It didn’t amount to more than an
impression. You go over and over a thing like that until you don’t know
what you thought at the time. The fact is you don’t notice things
because you don’t know they’re going to be important. They just slide by
you with the thousand and one other things which you’re not particularly
noticing all day long. They’re part of a pattern, and you notice the
pattern, but you just don’t notice the details. And then quite suddenly
one of those details is so important that you’ve got to remember it, and
you can’t. That’s where I am. It’s a matter of life and death about that
door, and for the life of me I can’t remember. It was too unimportant at
the time, and it’s too important now. I can’t get it into focus, and the
more I try the less certain I am about anything. By the time it comes to
standing up and being cross-examined I shan’t be able to open my mouth
without getting tied into knots. And if you get down to rock bottom,
there’s no more in it than this—I didn’t actually notice whether the
door was open when I went past to the window.”

“But you _would_ have noticed.”

“Would I? I don’t know. You see that’s what we come back to every
time—I don’t know.”

Susan caught him by the arm.

“Wait! Bill, when you came back and found the door was open and went in,
was the curtain still drawn?”

“I think so. Yes, it was. I remember I had to pull it back before I
could see into the room. And that would account for my not noticing
whether the door was open. If the curtain had been pulled back, I should
have seen the light. I did see the light from the window. That’s why I
went there—I thought I would look in and see if he was alone. But there
wasn’t any light from the door—I’m quite sure about that. It may have
been open all the time.”

Silence came down between them. There was no more to be said. Presently
he threw up his head and laughed.

“I took my shadow a good deal farther than he wanted to go this morning.
He’s that young Lane from Ledcott, and he’s much better on a motor-bike
than he was up the Quarry hill on his own flat feet. He may get his own
back by arresting me, but I can give him points and a beating when it
comes to a rough climb. I took him up through the gorse, and he wasn’t
loving me much.”

“I wondered where you were.”

He laughed again.

“I found a flat, sandy place and roughed out a pretty good plan for old
Gilbert Garnish. I expect Lane thought I was crazy, but he didn’t mind
having a rest. I came down the steep side over the rock, and I believe
he had thoughts about suicide. Anyhow he’ll have taken off the best part
of half a stone, and that’s all to the good. Actually, I’ve had a
brain-wave about the Garnish affair——” He stopped suddenly, put his
arms round her, and said with suspicious lightness, “I’m afraid I’ll get
the sack if I’m arrested—and it’s a pity, because it was coming out a
treat.”

Susan said “Don’t!” in a muffled voice, and all at once she was holding
him as he was holding her, and they were kissing with a desperate,
straining passion—with blinding tears. Their world had broken round
them and there was no protection anywhere, no safety and no help. The
only happiness and comfort they could know was in this embrace which
might be their last.

They clung together without words.




                             CHAPTER XXXIII


Lily Green had her afternoon and evening out on Wednesday. Since William
Cole would not be free until after five, she would put in a little
gossip with Annie Gill or Florrie Pipe and then come home to tea. Mrs.
Green had an old cottage right on the village street. It was
picturesque, insanitary, and quite destitute of modern conveniences.
Mrs. Green still pumped water from a well in the back garden, and
everything else was to match. The rooms were dark, the floors uneven,
the bedroom ceilings sloped to catch an unwary head. But when Lily came
into the kitchen there was a nice clear fire with some buttered toast on
the hob, and an excellent currant cake of Mrs. Green’s baking on the
table, which was covered with a bright checked table-cloth. A well
trimmed wall-lamp diffused a warm yellow light and a perceptible odour
of paraffin. On the dresser, and only used upon state occasions, was the
pink-flowered china tea-set which had been a wedding present from Mrs.
O’Hara’s mother. There was also a figure of Red Ridinghood stroking an
affectionate wolf, a King George V jubilee mug, two copper candlesticks,
and a Dick Turpin in a blue coat and sprigged waistcoat on his famous
mare Black Bess. He had very long black moustaches and rode in a
peculiar manner with both hands on the same side of the mare’s neck.

Mrs. Green gave Lily a hearty kiss and began at once to make the tea and
to tell her all about Detective Sergeant Abbott and the shoes.

“And I thought Miss Susan was agoing to faint. There wasn’t a drip nor a
drab of colour in her face. ‘Miss Lenox’ he said, ‘that shoe is the one
that stepped in the old clay puddle going up the garden way. It stepped
in and it stepped out’, he said, ‘and after that it made a print on the
study floor. And I must take the shoes away with me’, he said. And there
was poor Miss Susan as white as a bit of sugar icing.”

Lily Green put three lumps of sugar in her tea. She was just what her
mother must have been at twenty-two, and a very pretty girl—nice skin,
nice hair, nice eyes, and a pleasantly rounded figure. She leaned an
elbow on the table and dropped her voice.

“It’s right enough about that footprint,” she said. “Mr. Raby, he saw
it, and I heard him tell his wife. They put one of the big chairs right
over it so as it shouldn’t be trod on till the London police came down.
But whatever makes them pick on Miss Susan? There’s plenty of others
might have trod in a puddle besides her. What about that Miss de Lisle
that pushed her way in past Mr. Raby? She came up from the Magpie,
didn’t she, and there’s clay down there. Why couldn’t she have made the
mark on the floor?”

Mrs. Green looked thoughtful. She munched buttered toast. Then she said,

“There wouldn’t be enough clay left on her shoes to mark a floor by the
time she’d come all the way round by the road from the Magpie.”

“Nor there wouldn’t,” said Lily. She looked doubtfully at the hot toast.
“I don’t know that I ought to, Mum—I’m putting on.”

Mrs. Green laughed her jolly laugh.

“And I’ve put on, so what’s the odds? You don’t want to be one of the
break-in-half-as-soon-as-look-at-them kind, do you? William’ll have a
word to say about it if you do. Men don’t like bones, and that’s a fact.
They like something they can get their arm around.”

Lily laughed and frowned.

“If William goes on the way he’s been going he won’t put his arm round
my waist. Thinks himself a sheikh, I wouldn’t wonder, the way he carries
on. I’m not to say this, and I’m not to say that, and I’m not so much as
to breathe a word about——” She pulled herself up with a noticeable
jerk and buried her face in her cup of tea.

Mrs. Green took another piece of buttered toast and said firmly,

“About what?”

Lily finished her tea and pushed up her cup for more.

“I suppose we’ll all be getting our notice,” she said. “I told William
I’d look for a place the other side of Ledlington if he went on like
he’s been going—and what do you think he had the nerve to say?”

Mrs. Green put three lumps of sugar into Lily’s cup.

“They’ve got the nerve to say anything, Ducks. What _did_ he say?”

Lily tossed her head.

“Said I needn’t expect he’d come over there to walk out with me, and
there were plenty hereabouts would be pleased to have his company.”

“I hope you didn’t give in to him,” said Mrs. Green in a shocked voice.
“Time enough when you’re married. There’s ways you can get your own back
then, but a girl that lets her young man right down tread on her before
they’ve been to church together, well, she’d better stay an old maid and
make the best of it, because she’ll be trod as flat as any worm, and no
good putting the blame on him. Men are made that way, and if you ask for
it you’ll get it. So you mind and keep your end up, Lily, and don’t go
giving in to William any more than what’s right.” She changed her tone
suddenly. “What’s all this that he won’t let you talk about?”

Lily took the last piece of buttered toast and bit into it with a fine
row of even teeth.

“Nothing,” she said with her mouth full.

“Now, Lily——” Mrs. Green settled herself back in her chair and put a
hand on either knee—“now, Lily, what are you a-keeping back?”

“Nothing.”

“Oh, yes, you are. And if William Cole’s going to set you on telling
lies to your own mother——”

Lily’s shoulder jerked pettishly.

“’Tisn’t nothing,” she said, “only——”

“Only what?”

“Reelly, Mum—how you do go on! You don’t want to be drawn in any more
than what William does.”

“Drawn into what?” said Mrs. Green with some asperity.

“Nothing.”

Mrs. Green leaned forward and took the cup from her hand.

“Don’t you answer me like that, Lily! What’s all this about? If it’s
something about Mr. Dale’s murder, William Cole or no William Cole
you’ll tell me this directly minute. Shuffling and hinting is what I’d
whip any child for—and when you _was_ a child I didn’t have to. Open as
the day you was, like anyone ought to be that hasn’t got things to hide,
and if William Cole is going to make you tell lies to your own mother,
it’s the last time he comes inside my house, and that’s a fact!”

Lily jerked again.

“I’d as soon tell you as not. It was William said we oughtn’t to get
drawn in.” She relaxed suddenly into a giggle. “And do you know what was
at the bottom of it, I do believe? He’s jealous—that’s what he is.
Thinks I’ll have to go into court, and be a witness, and have my photo
in the papers. It wouldn’t be half exciting, would it, Mum? And I
wouldn’t mind reelly, not if it wasn’t for William. The Inspector’s ever
so nice, and that Sergeant Abbott, well, he might be a real gentleman,
so I wouldn’t mind it myself, but William ’ud be fit to cut my throat.”

“Don’t you talk that way,” said Mrs. Green in a shocked voice. “And you
stop shallying about and tell me plain what it is you’ve been hiding
up.”

Lily leaned across the table and dropped her voice.

“’Tisn’t anything, only—well, I suppose it might be something. You see,
it was this way—and look here, Mum, don’t you go telling anyone,
because Mr. and Mrs. Raby they’ve told the police and swore to it that
us girls were all in along of Mrs. Raby listening to the wireless
between six and a quarter to seven.”

“And weren’t you?” said Mrs. Green.

Lily giggled.

“Esther and Doris were there all right, but I wasn’t. Mrs. Raby, she’s
only got to set down and listen to a band programme and it sends her off
as sound as sound, so as soon as I see she was off I ran out by the back
door into the yard.”

“Whatever for?” said Mrs. Green.

Lily giggled again.

“Go on, Mum! What does a girl run out for? I’ll bet you did it
yourself.”

“William?” said Mrs. Green in a disapproving voice.

“Well, we’d had a bit of a tiff Sunday night, so I thought he’d be
round. It reelly was a tiff, Mum, and I wouldn’t make it up, nor let him
kiss me nor nothing, so I made sure he’d be round. He carries on, you
know, Mum, but he’s awful in love with me. Sometimes I wish he wasn’t
quite so much. It’s bad enough when I don’t mean anything, but if I was
reelly to throw him over I do believe he’d do something desperate, he’s
that jealous. You know, he didn’t half like me being in service with a
single gentleman——”

Mrs. Green’s bright blue eyes very nearly popped right out of her head.

“Lily! You’re not going to tell me it was William that shot Mr. Dale?”

Lily had quite a prolonged fit of the giggles.

“I’d like him to hear you say so! Why, Mum, whatever put that into your
head?”

Mrs. Green was justly annoyed. Her colour had deepened considerably, and
her voice was sharp.

“Now, Lily, that’s enough. You tell me right out what you know about Mr.
Dale being shot. And if there’s any more beating about the bush——”

Lily dropped to a confidential note.

“Well, William was there like I thought he’d be, and we made it up—not
all at once, because I wouldn’t after the way he carried on Sunday. I
was ever so cold and haughty at first—I reelly was, Mum—but after a
bit I give in.”

Mrs. Green sniffed.

“And always will!” she said.

Lily took no notice.

“Well, he got me to walk a bit of the way with him. I knew Mrs. Raby’d
be safe till seven, so I was going to. We come round the corner of the
house, and round the front to go down the drive. I said I’d go as far as
the gate, when all of a sudden we heard a shot. I said, ‘What’s that?’
and William said, ‘It’s nothing to do with us’. But I ran as far as the
corner of the house and looked round——”

“Which corner?” said Mrs. Green.

“Where the shot came from,” said Lily. “And I looked along, and there
was one of the study windows open and the light shining out, and I
hadn’t hardly seen it before someone came running past.”

“Lily!”

Lily nodded.

“Reelly, Mum. You know there’s a bit of paving runs all along that side
of the house between the terrace and the front drive. Well, that’s where
she come, right along the side of the house as quick as a rabbit, and
past where I was and down the drive, running all the way. And William
said it was none of our business and we wasn’t to get drawn in, and
that’s what he’s gone on saying ever since. Rough as rough he was—took
me by the arm and ran me along back to the yard and told me to keep my
mouth shut and never let on we’d heard the shot nor seen anyone.”

Mrs. Green put her elbows on the table and propped her shaking chin upon
her hands.

“Oh, lord!” she said. “Lily, what did you see?”

Lily leaned close.

“I saw her as plain as plain where she crossed the study window. The
light was on over Miss Cathy’s table and it shone right out.”

Mrs. Green shut her eyes for a moment. Everything inside her was
shaking. She said in a whisper,

“Who was it—who was it, Lily? Who was it?”

“I didn’t know then, but I know now.”

Mrs. Green took a long breath and sat back. She picked up the corner of
her overall and wiped her forehead and chin.

“What’s the matter, Mum?”

“It come over me,” said Mrs. Green. “Who was it you saw?”

“She’d on a black coat, and a black hat with some sort of a red feather
in it—I saw it in the light. A tall, gipsy-looking woman—and I didn’t
know who she was then, but it was this Miss Cora de Lisle all right, the
one that was Mr. Dale’s wife and got in to see him earlier on, and Mr.
Raby——”

Mrs. Green let out the breath she had been holding with a noisy gasp.

Lily stared.

“Why, Mum, what’s come to you?”

Mrs. Green fanned herself with the saucer belonging to her teacup.

“If ever anyone had a turn!” she said.

Lily went on staring.

“Why, whoever did you think I’d seen?”

“Never you mind what I thought. But you shouldn’t give anyone a turn
like that. It all comes of hinting instead of saying bang out what you
mean. You’re sure it was her you saw—that Miss de Lisle?”

“Sure as I’m here,” said Lily.

“Then the first minute you’ve finished your tea you’ll put on your hat
and up to the house and tell the police.”




                             CHAPTER XXXIV


“Well, we’re about through here,” said Inspector Lamb. He pushed his
chair a little way back from the writing-table which had been Lucas
Dale’s.

He looked round the study as he spoke. With the curtains drawn and a
bright fire blazing, the fine proportions and rich but sober colouring
of the room were apparent—the deep-toned Persian rugs, dark shining
parquet, chairs covered in maroon leather, walls lined with books, a
wide and welcoming hearth. Inspector Lamb approved it with a nod.

“All the same,” he said, “you’ve got to be brought up to this kind of
house before you can feel at home in it. It’s too big for me. Eight
rooms—I don’t go above that—not for comfort. Four downstairs and four
up, and none of them so big you’ve got to spend a fortune getting them
warm—that’s my limit. And as far as my own tastes go, eight’s too many.
Six is all I want, and enough for anyone, with families the size they
run nowadays. And that’s a funny thing, you know, Abbott—when families
ran twelve and fourteen there wasn’t half the accommodation for them
there is now, when it’s one here, and two there, and none at all round
the corner. I was one of nine, and I’ve got three—and that’s quite a
big family these days.”

Frank Abbott made no comment. He was stacking papers back into a
pulled-out drawer.

Lamb pushed his chair a little farther.

“I don’t know that I ever went through so much stuff and knew so little
about a man at the end of it. Nothing but business from beginning to
end, and beyond the fact that he seems to have sailed as near the wind
as makes no difference, and that by hook or by crook he’d got together a
pretty big pile, we don’t know much more about him than we did when we
began.”

Without lifting his light eyes Frank Abbott said,

“It was chiefly by crook, I imagine.”

“He might as well not have had a private life. Not a personal letter, or
a souvenir—none of the kind of things people hoard. Well, I don’t know
how it strikes you, but the way it gets me is that any private life he
had was the sort he’d be careful to keep private.”

Frank Abbott nodded rather abstractedly. His hands were busy with the
papers. Behind a particularly impassive face his thoughts were busy too.
Something wrong about this case—something wrong. Inquest on Friday,
10.30 sharp at the Magpie, and an absolute cast-iron certainty that the
result would he wilful murder against William Carrick. Not so certain
about the girl. Footprint undoubtedly made by her shoe. Arguable that
her story was substantially true. She said she hadn’t been into the
room. The footprint gave her the lie there. But it was only just inside
the glass door. She might have stepped in—met Bill Carrick—and hardly
realized——A cold gleam of sarcasm lit his thought. The girl was
probably an accessory after the fact. In the light of that cold gleam he
told himself that the probability would have been a certainty if Susan
Lenox had not been what she was.

“What I can’t make up my mind about,” said Inspector Lamb, “is whether
to wait for the inquest or not. It’s tricky giving him the chance to
bolt.”

“He won’t,” said Frank Abbott. “No chance of getting away, and a dead
certainty that he’d be putting the rope round his neck. He might as well
confess as bolt—comes to the same thing with a jury.”

Lamb wagged his head.

“That’s all very well for a theory. People don’t act on theory when
they’ve done a murder. It’s astonishing how often a criminal does the
very last thing he ought to do—the very thing that’s going to give him
away. He’s like a cat up a tree with a dog barking at the foot of it. If
the cat stayed put it’d be all right. But it doesn’t—it gets rattled
and jumps. I’ve seen it dozens of times—jumps right down in front of
the dog and gets caught. And that’s your criminal to a T—he can’t let
well alone. He’s committed a crime, and he’ll commit another to cover
the first one up, or he’ll lose his nerve and bolt. All things
considered, I think we’d better have Carrick under lock and key—I’d be
easier in my mind.”

“I’m not easy in mine.”

Lamb looked at him, his large face rosy and expressionless.

“You’ve got a bee in your bonnet, Frank. Better get rid of it. What’s
the matter with arresting Carrick?”

Frank Abbott was silent. Lamb drummed with his hand on his knee.

“I asked you a question, my lad.”

He got a cold, respectful stare.

“I beg your pardon, sir.”

“I said, ‘What’s the matter with arresting Carrick?’”

“If I knew the answer to that, we’d be getting somewhere.”

“Do you call that an answer?”

“Hardly. But I can’t give you a better——” He paused, and said with a
complete change of manner, “I thought Carrick was speaking the
truth—that’s all.”

It was at this moment that Lily Green opened the door and stood
hesitating upon the threshold. She was still in her outdoor things, and
her face, between the fur collar of a brown winter coat and the small
brown felt hat, looked pale and frightened. Actually, she was not so
frightened as she looked. Thirty-six hours of fairly close contact had
robbed the London police of their terror, and William or no William, if
there was any way of getting her photo in the papers, she meant to do
it. Something to talk about for the rest of her life—that’s what it
would be.

She came in a step, and Frank Abbott saw her and said,

“What is it? Do you want anything?”

Lily poured it all out.

“Ever so nice they were to me, Mum,” she told Mrs. Green later on that
evening. “I said right away that you’d made me come. And they wanted to
know about you, so I said how you obliged Mrs. O’Hara, and you couldn’t
bear to see Miss Susan the way she was. And of course I said when it was
put that way I could see it wasn’t hardly right for me to hold my tongue
and let Mr. Bill be got into trouble when I’d seen that Miss de Lisle
with my own eyes not half a minute after the shot went off. Well, they
couldn’t have been nicer—made me sit down, and Mr. Abbott, he wrote it
all out. He writes beautiful, and very near as quick as if it was
shorthand, and every word as plain as print. I had to read it over and
sign my name. And they pulled the curtain back and opened the window by
Miss Cathy’s table same as it was Monday night, and the Inspector he
said was I sure I could see enough to recognize anyone running along the
side of the house by the light coming from the window. So I spoke right
up and said, ‘Well, I didn’t recognize her, because I’d never seen her
before, but I saw her quite plain, and I could recognize her now’. Mr.
Abbott, he took up a newspaper he’d got there with a lot of headlines,
and he held it up and kept on walking away from me. And they wanted to
know how far off I could see the headlines, and I could see them right
away across the room. So then they took me outside, and I was to run
along past the window like I’d seen Miss de Lisle whilst they went on to
the front drive where William and me were. Well, then I ran past, and
they could see my face all right, like I told them I could see hers. And
they praised me ever so, only of course they said I did ought to have
mentioned it before, so I told them about William being that jealous I
didn’t like to go against him but you’d made me own up. And they said
quite right, and the Inspector said not to take any notice of William,
because a girl ought to listen to her mother when she’d got a good one
like he could see I had. And he said I’ve to go to the inquest—half
past ten Friday morning at the Magpie. And they both said it’d all be in
the papers, and photographs too.”

Mrs. Green gazed admiringly at Lily’s pretty, flushed face.

“What about William?” she said.

“I just don’t care,” said Lily Green.

In the study the two men looked at one another. Lily, pleased and
excited, got to her feet.

“You’ll have to swear to all this at the inquest,” said Inspector Lamb.

“Oh, yes, sir.”

Frank Abbott turned from the table and went over to the alcove. The wind
blew in through the open window. He passed Cathy’s table, pulled the
casement to, and drew the wine-coloured curtain across it. The room
settled back into its air of rich security.

And then, just as he turned, he caught the faintest of faint sounds. He
thought it was the click of a latch. He thought the click came from the
door on the far side of the room. It took him a moment to come round the
table and cross to it. When he reached the door and opened it there was
no one there.

The straight passage ran through to the hall, with the second study door
opening upon it to the right. The stair to the bedroom floor ran up a
dozen feet away, light, and bare, and empty. There was a door to the
left and a door beyond the stair, one shut, the other ajar. He opened
first one and then the other—a cold, small room like a
waiting-room—the main hall of the house. No one in either place—no one
at all.

As he stood looking into the hall, Raby crossed from a room on the other
side. He had not met anyone or seen anyone—he had been making up the
dining-room fire, he said.

Frank Abbott’s light eyes went over him. He said,

“Isn’t that Robert’s work?”

With a vaguely nervous gesture Raby said, “Yes.” And then, rather
haltingly, “Robert—Robert has just stepped out to the post.”




                              CHAPTER XXXV


Cora de Lisle was packing. She had been packing, or trying to pack, for
the best part of an hour, ever since the front gate had creaked and
clanged to behind Mrs. Clancy. Not that there was such a dreadful hurry.
Mrs. Clancy had gone to the pictures, and it would be three hours good
before she was back again. As long as Cora was gone by then, everything
would be all right. But she ought to have gone yesterday. She ought to
have gone right away on the Tuesday morning. She’d have had to change
the fifty-pound note anyhow. But that was all right. She’d got Lucas
Dale’s signature to show, and they’d made no trouble about it. Of course
they hadn’t heard about Lucas being dead then, but her going there and
changing the note and showing what Lucas had written—well, that was all
to the good, because it looked as if she didn’t know anything either.
And whatever it looked like, she had to have the money. But when she’d
got it—that’s where she’d made her mistake. She ought to have been out
of Ledlington and off back to London just as quick as the train could
take her. Nowhere in the world so easy as London if you wanted to be out
of the way for a bit, and with fifty pounds she could have stayed quiet
till everything had blown over.

Her hands shook as she tried to fold the orange negligée. She ought to
have gone right away, but the feel of the money, that’s what had done
her down—the feel of it, and the thought of what it would buy. Not the
brandy, but what the brandy would do for her. She just hadn’t been able
to resist it, though she’d known at the time that she ought to be
getting away.

The orange negligée dropped from her shaking hands. She picked it up,
crammed it in anyhow, and threw the tinsel shoes in after it. She ought
to have gone yesterday before the detective came. She would have gone
too if she’d been herself, but with that awful cold shaking in her, how
was she going to pack, and get to the train, and start looking for
somewhere to hide at the other end? No, not _hide_—somewhere where she
could be quiet and make the fifty pounds last a good long time. Things
blow over, and out of sight is out of mind. She wondered if old Mrs.
Isaacs would take her in. . . .

Stupid to go on shaking like this—not like her either, but her nerves
weren’t what they used to be. Some would say it was the brandy—but
you’d got to have something, hadn’t you? Where she’d made her mistake
was going back. She’d got away with fifty pounds, and she ought to have
let it go at that. It was when she was having that last drink in the
Crown and Magpie that it had come over her what a fool she was to let
Lucas off with fifty pounds when she might just as well have had a
hundred out of him, or a hundred and fifty. It wasn’t as if she hadn’t
seen the other notes. He had had the four of them out, and she had been
fool enough to let herself be fobbed off with one. By the time she had
finished the brandy she had made up her mind to go back. It would be
worth more than a hundred pounds to Lucas if he could stop her mouth.
There were things she could tell Miss Susan Lenox that he wouldn’t want
her to hear.

Well then, she had gone back——

She stood there fumbling with the half-packed clothes. It wouldn’t be so
bad if she didn’t keep on hearing the shot. And Lucas lying there—just
his hand and his arm—that was all you could see from the window. But it
was Lucas all right. When you’ve been married to a man you don’t forget
even if you’ve come to hate him. Lucas Dale’s hand—with the ring on it
which she’d seen when he took out the notes—there hadn’t been any money
for rings in the old days. Lucas Dale’s hand and arm, and Lucas lying
dead—and as like as not they’d try and make out she’d done it. And
she’d lost her head, run on to the terrace, and then back again the way
she’d come, all along by the side of the house and almost into someone
there at the corner. That’s what frightened her. There’d been someone
there, and it might have been the one that shot Lucas, or it mightn’t.
She couldn’t tell whether it was man or woman—and hadn’t wanted to
then. Hadn’t wanted anything except to get away.

She turned from the shabby, half-filled suit-case, poured out a stiff
tot of brandy, and gulped it down. There wasn’t much left. She could put
the rest into the empty eau-de-Cologne bottle and have it in her handbag
so that she could have a nip in the train. She wouldn’t be getting any
more until she was safe in Mrs. Isaac’s back room. Then she could have
all she wanted—enough to stop the fear and the horrible cold shaking.
She tilted the two bottles together, heard them rattle with the shaking
of her hands, and saw half the brandy spill and waste itself, running
down in a yellow trickle over the edge of the chest of drawers and
dripping on to the littered floor. Her lipstick had dropped. She
couldn’t be bothered to pick it up. Very little of the brandy went where
it had been meant to go, but she screwed down what there was and slipped
the eau-de-Cologne bottle inside a battered handbag. For the moment she
felt better. The spirits she had swallowed gave her warmth and
confidence, but she had been nipping all day, and with each return to
the brandy bottle she became less able to co-ordinate her thoughts or to
fix them upon what she had to do. Yet at the back of everything there
was a fear which drove her.

The suit-case filled slowly. If she put in a shoe she would forget its
fellow, spend muddled time looking for it, and come upon it by chance
already stuffed in under a huddle of torn underclothes. Once she found
that she had packed the skirt which she must wear to travel in. Tugging
to get it out, she spilled half the contents of the case. She put the
skirt on without noticing that she was wearing one already.

It was while she was struggling to fasten the belt that she heard a
motor-bicycle come chugging up the street. She heard it stop, and after
that the squeak and clang of the gate. Oh, well, if it was anyone for
Mrs. Clancy, she was out and there was an end of it. Curiously enough,
she did not think that it might be anyone for herself. The brandy swam
in her head, and it never crossed her fuddled mind that it might be the
police.

The man who had ridden the motor-bicycle knocked on the front door. He
wore a leather cap and goggles, and a loose waterproof coat. He looked
through the goggles and observed that the parlour was in darkness—the
room above it too. Well, people who lived in Gladstone Villas would be
more apt to be found at the back of the house.

He went round to the back and found all dark below, but a lighted window
overhead. He tried the door and found it locked. He kicked his foot
against the mat and, feeling underneath it, came upon a key. He used it,
wiped it, and put it back again. There was a glove on his hand as he
turned the handle and went in with the faint beam of an electric torch
to show him the way.

When he had come soft-foot up the stair to where a thread of light
showed beneath a closed door he switched off the torch and put it in his
pocket. Then he opened the door and went in.

Miss de Lisle was on her knees in the corner beyond the fireplace. The
recess had been fitted with pegs and screened by a dingy curtain. She
was stretching forward to reach a forgotten pair of shoes, when she
heard footsteps behind her. It was the last thing she heard. There was
no time to turn. Her drugged mind moved slowly. There was no time to be
afraid. She did not even cry out.

The man laid the poker back upon the hearth and went quickly and
noiselessly down the stair and out of the house. Nobody saw him come or
go. The motor-bicycle chugged and receded. There was no sound in the
house.




                             CHAPTER XXXVI


The car turned in to Gladstone Villas and stopped at No. 17. Inspector
Lamb got out. Frank Abbott, who had been driving, followed him. The gate
creaked and the door-knocker sounded, the silence of the house was
jarred by the shrill tinkle of an electric bell.

Presently the two men went round to the back, as the motor-cyclist had
done. Like him they saw the lighted bedroom window, and like him they
presently found the back door key, but not until they had rapped and
called, and been answered only by the silence. As they came up the
stair, the silence warned them. No house with a lighted window should be
as still as this.

Frank Abbott led the way to the second door on the left, knocked upon
it, and, answered only by that warning silence, threw it suddenly open.
The smell of spilled brandy hung upon the close air. There was a
half-packed suit-case on the bed, an untidy muddle everywhere—a coat
hanging over a chair, a hat on the chest of drawers beside the empty
brandy bottle. And, face downwards in the corner beyond the fireplace,
Miss Cora de Lisle with the back of her head smashed in. The poker which
had quite obviously been used to smash it had been laid tidily back upon
the hearth.

Inspector Lamb stopped to feel for a non-existent pulse. The wrist he
touched was limp and warm. He straightened up, his rosy face hard and
set.

“It’s only just happened—she’s warm. Cut round to the station and tell
them—and hurry.”

Frank Abbott hurried, and as he went, and made his report, and came
again, and the whole machinery which waits on murder clanked into
action, his thoughts raced and swirled. When the Ledlington Inspector
and his men had trooped into the little crowded room he touched
Inspector Lamb on the arm.

“If I could speak to you, sir——” His tone was urgent.

Lamb said, “Presently.” But the urgency of the tone stayed with him, and
in what he himself would have called ‘half no time’ he came out upon the
narrow landing and said,

“Well, what is it?”

“We’ve got to get back, sir—leave them to it and get back. The murderer
came from King’s Bourne, and if we go straight back we’ll have a decent
chance of getting him.”

“King’s Bourne?”

Frank Abbott’s face was more nearly eager than the Inspector had ever
seen it.

“Yes—yes! There isn’t a minute to lose! Let the locals get on with the
photographs and the fingerprints this end, but we’ve got to get back.
There’s something I didn’t tell you—I didn’t think it important then.
But we must get back. I’ll tell you as we go.”

Inspector Lamb gazed imperturbably. Something about this case seemed to
have stirred young Frank right up. It wouldn’t do him any harm either.
In a slow and ruminating voice he remarked that if that was the way of
it, he would just have a word with Inspector Grey, and Frank had better
be starting the car.

They cleared the narrow exit from Gladstone Villas and came out by this
way and that to the comparative quiet of a long road running between
ribbon edgings of small twinkling houses and their attendant lampposts
to the dark, silent country beyond.

Frank Abbott began to speak, taking up his own last words and repeating
them as if there had been no interval of sound, silence and suspense.

“There’s something I didn’t tell you—I didn’t think it important. When
I went to shut the window in the study after we’d finished with that
girl, the door clicked—the far door, not the one behind you. I think
there was someone there with the door ajar. I think he had been there
most of the time listening, and when I shut the window the door clicked
to. He may have shut it, or it may have shut itself because he wasn’t
there any more to hold it. You saw me go out of the room. I went through
to the hall, and saw Raby coming out of the dining-room. He said he’d
been making up the fire, and I said, ‘Where’s Robert?’” Frank Abbott
paused and went on again. The break and the even repetition which
followed were curiously mechanical—the needle lifted from a gramophone
record and set down again to reproduce a phrase. “I said, ‘Where’s
Robert?’ And he said, ‘Robert’s just stepped out to the post’.”

“Robert?” The Inspector’s bulk shifted. His large face turned. “Here,
what’s this? Sounds nonsense to me.”

“We met a motor-cyclist a little way back from here as we came in.
Remember?”

“What’s that got to do with it?”

“Robert’s got a motor-bicycle. Did you know?”

“What’s that—a motor-bike? Are you sure?”

“Oh, quite. I saw it this morning. He keeps it in one of those sheds
round the yard. The Doris girl told me all about it. Robert’s
grandmother left him a legacy, and he bought an aged Douglas. He’s got a
girl over at Ledcott, Mary Leeson by name, and he can get over in ten
minutes any time. Seems to me we’ve got to reconsider the question of
Robert’s alibi. He was having his birthday party at Ledcott on Monday
evening, and I’m beginning to wonder if he didn’t slip away for half an
hour and murder Lucas Dale. Ledcott’s only two miles. Give him half an
hour, and he and the Douglas could have done it on their heads.”

“Letting your imagination run away with you, aren’t you, Frank?”

“Perhaps—I don’t know. I want to get back and see if that bike has been
out, and what Robert’s alibi is this time.”

“Motive,” said Lamb—“what’s your imagination got to say about that?
Unless you’re plain homicidal you’ve got to have a motive. And what
motive would Robert have for murdering Cora de Lisle?”

“None, unless he was the murderer of Lucas Dale—and we don’t know what
motive he might have for that. But I’ve never been so sure about
anything in all my life as I am that Dale’s murderer stood eavesdropping
by the study door whilst Lily Green made her statement. He heard that
she had seen Cora de Lisle by the open study window just after the shot
was fired. We took it to mean that she had murdered Dale, but if that
was so, she wouldn’t have been murdered herself. She wasn’t killed for
the balance of the fifty-pound note, because it was there in her
handbag. No, she was murdered because Dale’s murderer stood at the study
door and heard that she had been, or might have been, a witness of his
crime. The window was open, the curtain was drawn back, and a moment
after the shot was fired Lily saw Cora de Lisle by that open window.
Dale’s murderer couldn’t risk what she might have seen. He got away
before we did—say ten minutes start and no regard for the speed limit.
He had the luck to find the house empty, and he silenced her. They’re
wasting their time looking for fingerprints. There won’t be any—he’s a
cunning devil.”

“Robert?” said Inspector Lamb in his solid voice.

The mechanical precision deserted Frank Abbott. He said uncertainly,

“I don’t know——”




                             CHAPTER XXXVII


They picked up a young constable in Netherbourne, and sat silent in
front whilst he sat silent behind until they reached the house. The yard
was dark. Beyond it vague light from blinded windows, and very faintly
the rhythmic throb of dance music from the wireless in the servants’
hall.

Frank Abbott’s torch sent a sharp beam into the dark. He led the way to
a shed on the left, flung the door open, and let the beam come to rest
upon a motor-bicycle. With Lamb still on the threshold, he swung round.

“Only just off the road—the engine’s hot, and look at those tyres.”

The Inspector looked, took the torch from his hand, and turned it about.
From a nail on the wall depended a motor helmet and goggles. He put down
a hand to feel the engine, gave Abbott back his torch, and walked out of
the shed.

“We’ll need to see Robert,” he said. “Now you and me, we’ll go along to
the front door and ring for Raby. And you, Gill, I’d like you to go in
this way. Ring the back door bell and say I’m expecting you. If Robert
Stack is there, tell him I want to see him and bring him along to the
study. Got that?”

The young constable said, “Yes, sir.”

Waiting on the front door step for Raby, neither of the two men spoke.
Through the dragging silence came at last the sound of footsteps, a key
turning, and the grinding of the bolt. King’s Bourne kept its approach
well guarded on this side at least. But if the enemy was within the
gate——

The door swung in. With Frank Abbott’s thought unfinished they passed
into the hall.

Lamb said, “Robert in yet?” and at Raby’s half surprised, “Oh, yes,
sir,” he added, “Send him through to the study. I want to see him.”

Raby was apologetic.

“I’m afraid the fire’s been let down, sir. I didn’t understand that you
would be coming back.”

“It doesn’t matter—just leave it. Send Robert along. Here, just a
minute—when did he come in?”

“Ten minutes ago, or a quarter of an hour, sir—I couldn’t say for
certain.”

Though the fire had died, the study was still warm. Order and sober
beauty sprang into view as the light came on. There was a strong
contrast with the room they had left in Ledlington, yet the two rooms
were held together by the dreadful link of murder. Frank Abbott went to
the fireplace and stood looking down at the sunk ash upon the hearth. A
charred log still smouldered. He pushed it with his foot, and a stray
spark or two flew up.

The Inspector took his accustomed seat, and almost at once Robert Stack
came in—a thin young man with dark eyes and a sallow complexion. He
looked nervously about the room, and started slightly as the door was
closed behind him by Gill.

Abbott straightened up and walked over to the table. His light eyes
scanned the pale face, the thin, rather ungainly figure. How much nerve
did you have to have to commit two murders in three days? It occurred to
him that Robert did not look as if he would have the nerve to kill a
rabbit. But then murderers never did look like murderers. They had the
outward shape and aspect of the ordinary man. Only within there lurked
the thing which set them apart.

Lamb allowed the silence to become menacing before he said,

“You have been out?”

“Yes, sir.”

“When did you go?”

“Round about a quarter to six, sir. Mr. Raby gave me leave.”

“And you came in when?”

“Not very long ago, sir.”

“How long ago?”

“Matter of ten minutes or a quarter of an hour.”

“You went out on your motor-cycle?”

Robert’s eyes shifted.

“Oh, no, sir.”

Lamb leaned forward, an impending bulk, his red face not good-natured
any more but threatening.

“You’ve had your bicycle out.” He used Abbott’s words unconsciously.
“It’s only just off the road—the engine’s hot.”

Robert looked terrified.

“Oh, no, sir—indeed I never. Indeed, sir, you’ve got it wrong.”

Lamb kept his eyes on the agitated face, but he leaned back in his chair
and said,

“All right, go on—tell your own story.”

Robert didn’t seem to have any story to tell. He twisted his hands and
repeated nervously,

“I just stepped out. Mr. Raby gave me leave.”

Frank Abbott helped him out.

“Where did you go?”

“Down to the village.”

“See anyone?”

“No, sir.”

Lamb came in again.

“Why did you go down into the village?”

Robert’s pallor became suffused with an ugly flush. His Adam’s apple
slid up and down as he gulped and said,

“I just stepped out.”

Lamb brought the flat of his hand down sharply upon a massive knee.

“Look here, my lad, if you can give an account of yourself you’d better
do it. If you can’t, well, it’ll be the worse for you. You’re not bound
to incriminate yourself, and I’m bound to tell you that anything you say
may be used against you. But if you’ve got a reasonable explanation to
give and you don’t give it, well, you’ll only have yourself to thank for
what you get.”

Robert cast a harried glance about him. The ugly colour deepened under
the damp skin.

“I don’t know what you’ve got against me. You can ask Mr. Raby—he gave
me leave.”

“What for?”

“It wasn’t for anything as it turned out. They’d gone in shopping to
Ledlington.”

“Oh, that’s your story—you went to see someone. Who was it?”

“It was Mary Leeson.”

“Yes? Mary Leeson—who is Mary Leeson?”

“From Ledcott—and she’s staying with her aunt Mrs. Pipe, so Mr. Raby
gave me leave to step out, but when I got down there the house was all
shut up.”

“So you took your motor-bike and went off after them—is that it?”

“No, sir, I didn’t—I never went near it. I just waited, thinking they’d
be home any time.”

“Who do you mean by they?”

“Mary and her aunt Mrs. Pipe, sir.”

“And how did you know they had gone to Ledlington?”

Robert swallowed desperately.

“Well, sir, they said so. Mary said she’d be going in with her aunt
shopping, but they meant to be back for tea, so I waited.”

“And when did they come?”

The Adam’s apple shot up and down.

“They didn’t come, sir. They must have missed the bus, and I dursn’t
wait any longer, so I come away.”

Inspector Lamb heaved himself out of his chair and went to the door. He
had a word with Gill and came back.

“All right,” he said, “you can go. If I want you again I’ll send for
you.”

He watched him out of the door, slewed round, and said,

“Well—what do you make of that?”

There was no expression at all in Frank Abbott’s face as he said,

“Someone had that motor-bike out.”

Lamb nodded.

“I wonder whether Mr. Carrick has an alibi this time.”

“Carrick?”

“Carrick,” said the Inspector.

“But he couldn’t have known—it must have been someone in the house. The
girl had hardly finished her statement. How could Carrick possibly know
that she had heard the shot and seen the de Lisle woman by the study
window? He couldn’t have known—there isn’t any possible way. The girl
had only just told her mother.”

“And her mother works for Mrs. O’Hara. She works for Mrs. O’Hara, and
she was so concerned about Miss Susan Lenox and Mr. Bill Carrick that
she made her daughter own up to having seen Miss de Lisle—flat in face
of the daughter’s jealous young man. Well then, she didn’t come up here
with Lily, did she? Do you suppose she stayed at home and washed up the
tea things? There isn’t the woman born that’d stay at home with a bit of
news like she’d just got from Lily, and if she didn’t come up here with
her, it’s because she’d got somewhere better to go. I say she took her
news over to Mrs. O’Hara. And I say Mr. Carrick had it before we did,
and didn’t waste the time over it that we did either. Why, he knows the
place and everyone in it like the back of his hand. Do you suppose he
didn’t know that Robert had a motor-bike, and where he kept it? What had
he got to do but walk up the garden and ride the bike over to Ledlington
and back? There was the helmet and goggles ready to his hand—a disguise
you can’t beat.”

“And what about Lane? He’s supposed to be keeping an eye on him.”

Lamb frowned.

“That’s where I blame myself—Carrick ought to have been under arrest.
Lane couldn’t be both sides of the house at once. I say there wasn’t
anything to stop Carrick going up the garden in the dark and taking that
bike. There’s one thing—he’ll think he’s been too clever to be
suspected. I’ll just check up on Mr. Bell and the secretary, and then
we’ll get going.”

There was a sameness, it appeared, about the accounts which Mr. Phipson
and Mr. Bell had to give of themselves. Mr. Phipson had been in his room
engaged in the peaceful pursuit of reading the _Times_ and writing half
a dozen letters. He actually had them in his hand stamped for the post
as he entered the study. He had been out in the afternoon, but not since
tea—“Oh, no, certainly not,” though he proposed walking down to the
village with his letters so as to get a breath of air before dinner.
Secretarial work though of great interest induced, he feared, somewhat
sedentary habits. If the Inspector did not require his presence, he
really would appreciate the opportunity of getting a little fresh air.
. . . The Inspector preferred that no one should leave the house for the
moment? “Oh, certainly, certainly. My letters are not really of great
importance—they can very well wait.”

So much for Mr. Phipson.

Mr. Vincent Bell, with a lamentable lack of originality, had once more
been having a bath.

Lamb’s eyebrows went up. Abbott restrained a smile. He said,

“Quite a lot of people do, you know, before dinner.”

“Seems a funny time to me,” said Lamb.

Vincent Bell laughed.

“Well, you see, I’m a very methodical man, and I’ve got my habits. I go
out walking round about six o’clock, and then I come in and have a bath
and a change. Some folk don’t like walking in the dark, but I do, so
there it is. I missed my walk on Monday because I was talking to Dale,
but every other night I’ve been here I’ve gone out and walked, and come
back and taken a bath. You can ask Raby—he can tell you he’s heard the
noise those pipes make.”

Inspector Lamb looked glum. Vincent Bell laughed again.

“I haven’t got any alibi. But say, Captain, why do I have to have one?
Monday night Dale was getting himself bumped off. Naturally, you want to
know what everyone in the house was doing. That’s O.K., but what’s all
this getting busy over when I went for a walk, or whether I had a bath
tonight? Dale’s dead, isn’t he? Do I have to have someone around to give
me an alibi every place I go? What’s the big idea?”

“Do you ride a motor-bicycle, Mr. Bell?”

Vincent’s eyes sharpened.

“Not if I can get an automobile,” he said.

“Did you ride one tonight?”

The sharp gaze became a wary one?

“I told you I went walking.”

“Where did you go? Did you meet anyone?”

“Now let me see—I went down the drive and turned to the left, and up a
hill, and around and about. And I didn’t what you’d call meet anyone.
There was a car or two, and a petting party going on by a field gate,
but they wouldn’t be taking any interest in me.”

“You didn’t ride a motor-bicycle into Ledlington and pay a call on Miss
Cora de Lisle?”

Vincent Bell whistled.

“That dame! What would I be wanting to pay a call on her for?”

“I don’t know. Did you know her?”

“No, I didn’t. I saw her go away the morning she came here to see Dale.
He talked about her afterwards—said she was poison and he was well quit
of her—said she’d do him a mischief if she could, but he’d see to it
she didn’t.”

“You ought to have told us all that before,” said Lamb quickly.

Vincent said, “Oh, well——” and then, “It was just Dale’s way of
talking. I don’t suppose she’d a thing to do with it—looked kind of
down and out to me. And that’s where Dale was foolish. He’d money to
burn—why couldn’t he pay her alimony and keep her quiet? He didn’t give
her a cent—of course she was sore.” As he talked, his eyes went from
Lamb to Abbott.

Frank Abbott said,

“Did you see her tonight?”

“I never saw her at all but the once she was over here.”

“You didn’t go into Ledlington this evening?”

“No, I didn’t. And I’m asking you again what’s all this about?” He
pushed back his chair and got up, his eyes bright and intent.
“Ledlington—and a motor-bicycle—and Cora de Lisle—and an
alibi—what’s it all about? Looks to me as if something had happened to
Cora de Lisle. Is that what you’re getting at?”

Inspector Lamb said sharply, “What makes you think that, Mr. Bell?”

“Wouldn’t anyone think of it, Captain?”

Lamb looked at him hard and said, “Cora de Lisle probably saw Dale shot.
Somebody knocked her on the head round about half past six this evening
in Ledlington.”

“And you think it might have been me?”

“It was someone who was afraid she might be going to give him away,”
said Inspector Lamb.




                            CHAPTER XXXVIII


Some time later Vincent Bell came into the inner hall. Mr. Montague
Phipson was setting his watch by the grandfather clock. He turned about
and came to meet him.

“This is a very strange affair,” he said with a mixture of nervousness
and formality in his manner. An onlooker might have thought that, much
as Mr. Phipson disliked his present company, he yet considered it in the
circumstances to be better than no company at all. “Perhaps if I might
have a word with you——” He opened the drawing-room door as he spoke
and put on all the lights.

The candles in their gilt sconces lit up the old-ivory panelling, the
polished floor, the dim lovely colours of the Persian rugs, the graceful
Adam mantelpiece, and the long, straight folds of blue which curtained
the four tall windows.

Mr. Phipson shut the door and came into the middle of the room. He
thought it had a dead feeling. It was warm because of the central
heating installed by Lucas Dale, but no fire had been lighted here for
the past two days, and the air felt dead. He cleared his throat,
straightened his pince-nez, and repeated the words which he had used in
the hall.

“This is a very strange affair. I really cannot make it out. Why should
the Inspector ask us all these questions? I have been in my room all the
evening, but why does he want to know where I have been? It seems to me
extremely intrusive. Are we to account for every moment of our time?”

Vincent surveyed him with a twinkle in his eye.

“Well, that’s how I put it to him myself.”

“And what did he say to that? Did he tell you why they were asking all
these questions? I am sure I am most willing to assist the police in the
execution of their duties, but I think we are entitled to an
explanation.”

“Oh, there’s an explanation all right,” said Vincent Bell rather
soberly. “There’s been another murder—that’s what.”

“Another murder!” Mr. Phipson’s voice was shrill with horror.

“Cora de Lisle,” said Vincent Bell.

Mr. Phipson had to retrieve his glasses. They slipped from his nose and
hung dangling. He put them on crooked, and said in a shaking voice,

“Miss de Lisle?”

“Knocked on the head in Ledlington at half past six this evening—that’s
what the Inspector says. And that’s why they want to know what you and I
were doing between six and seven, Sonny boy.”

Mr. Phipson disregarded the insult.

“Murder!” he said. “But why? Why should anyone have murdered her?”

He got a shrewd glance.

“Old Lamb seems to think she knew more than was good for her—seems to
think she knew who bumped Dale off. Say, did he ask you if you rode a
motor-bicycle? Because that’s what he asked me—seemed to think the guy
who bumped her off took a ride to Ledlington on a motor-bicycle.”

Mr. Phipson’s face expressed horror.

“No—oh, no—he didn’t ask me that.”

“And do you ride a motor-bicycle?” said Vincent Bell. It didn’t seem
likely, but it amused him to see the little man wince and wriggle.

“No—oh, no—oh, certainly not.”

“Then you’re in luck.”

Mr. Phipson dropped his glasses again. He did not put them on
immediately, but let them dangle while he blinked at Vincent with his
near-sighted eyes.

“Oh, dear me—what a terrible thing! Do you mean to say that the
unfortunate woman has actually been murdered?”

“That seems to be the idea, Sonny boy.”

“Don’t call me that!”

Vincent Bell dropped his tone of badinage.

“Quit acting like it then. The woman’s been killed, and they want to
know who killed her. There’s something behind this motor-bicycle stuff.
Who’s got one here?”

Mr. Phipson took out a silk pocket-handkerchief and began to polish his
glasses.

“Robert——” he said in a meditative tone. “He keeps it in the yard.”

“I suppose old Lamb is wise to that? I shouldn’t pick Robert for a
killer myself.”

Mr. Phipson replaced his pince-nez and answered the first part of this
remark.

“I don’t know—it might be one’s duty——” He moved a little nearer the
door. “Oh, dear me—how very upsetting! My window looks out upon the
yard. I’m really very much afraid that it may be my duty to let the
police know that I heard the motor-bicycle go out—now, let me see, when
would it have been? I had just finished drafting an advertisement for
the _Times_—I have, naturally, to seek re-employment—and I think—yes,
I am sure it was about six o’clock. Did you hear anything?”

“No—I was out at six.” Vincent spoke carelessly and without thought. It
was not until he noticed a most peculiar expression on Mr. Phipson’s
face that he realized the possible implications of what he had just
said.

“Oh, dear me,” said Montague Phipson—“you went out at six. How very
unfortunate—for you—and perhaps for Miss de Lisle.”

Vincent glared.

“What do you mean by that? If it’s your idea of a wisecrack, you’ll be
doing it once too often!”

Mr. Phipson reached the door and stood ready to open it.

“You had better be careful. If you threaten me, I shall not hesitate to
call for help, and it will then be my clear duty to inform the police
that not only did I hear that motor-bicycle start up just after six
o’clock, but that I went and looked out of my window, and to the best of
my belief it was not Robert who was taking it out. The yard was dark of
course, but I have very good night sight—short-sighted people not
uncommonly have—and I am prepared to swear that the rider was a smaller
man than Robert. You,” said Mr. Phipson gently, “are a smaller man than
Robert.”

Vincent Bell said something vigorously unprintable. Then he was
controlled again.

“What sort of fool story is this?” he inquired in a hard voice of rage.

Mr. Phipson clutched the door handle. At the slightest threat of
violence he would turn it and call for help. He said so between
chattering teeth.

“If you attack me, I shall feel no further hesitation.”

“So you’re hesitating, are you?”

“In certain circumstances,” said Mr. Phipson cautiously, “I might feel
that it was not my business.”

“Meaning?”

“I think I must leave that to you.”

Vincent Bell made a movement which was almost immediately checked. He
might be tempted, but he did not mean to fall. It would hardly help to
clear him if he were found wringing this little rat’s neck. He plunged
his hands deep in his pockets and said,

“Blackmail?”

“Oh, I wouldn’t call it that,” said Mr. Phipson mildly.

“The police would.”

“But they won’t have the chance. It would be most unfortunate for you if
they did, because it would be only your word against mine, and I should
still have heard and seen that motor-bicycle.”

Vincent Bell stood quite still and looked him over.

“Poison—aren’t you? With all this bumping off going on, it’s a plain
pity nobody thought about you.”

“I shall call for help,” said Mr. Phipson hurriedly.

“You needn’t bother. How much do you want?”

Mr. Phipson heaved a sigh of relief. Violence was always so regrettable,
and there had already been far too much of it.

“Well, you have to consider that I may be out of a job for some time.
When you used an extremely regrettable word just now, I think you
perhaps failed to take into consideration the fact that compensation is
not unusual where prospects have been impaired or forfeited.”

“So I killed Dale, and I’m to compensate you for the loss of your job.
Is that it?”

“You might put it that way. It would, of course, be perfectly clear to
the police that the person who killed Miss de Lisle would be the person
who shot Mr. Dale. I think reasonable compensation for my loss of
employment is—er—not unreasonable.”

“And what do you call reasonable compensation?”

“A thousand pounds,” said Mr. Phipson with a slight tremor in his voice.




                             CHAPTER XXXIX


Inspector Lamb had been quite right about Mrs. Green. Torn between a
desire to accompany Lily to King’s Bourne and an urge to be the first to
convey such exciting news to the Little House, she decided after a brief
struggle upon the latter course. At King’s Bourne she would have had to
play second fiddle to Lily—she might not even have been admitted to the
study whilst Lily made her statement—but at the Little House she would
have the field all to herself. She had carried many pieces of news in
her time, but never anything so exciting as this. She put on her Sunday
hat and coat, and after a heartening contest with William Cole, who had
arrived to find Lily gone and was consequently in the worst of tempers,
she slammed and locked her front door and stepped across the village
street.

The Little House was only a couple of hundred yards away, yet Mrs. Green
arrived there quite out of breath with excitement and hurry. Susan,
opening the door to her knock, wondered what could possibly have
happened. Then, with a sickening leap of the heart, she began to be
afraid.

“Oh, Mrs. Green, what is it?”

“Miss Susan my dear, I had to come and tell you.”

Susan caught at the newel-post of the stair.

“Bill?” she said with lips that barely moved.

“Now, my dear, don’t you take on. I wouldn’t have hurried myself like I
have if I’d been bringing you bad news—stands to reason I wouldn’t.”

Susan shut her eyes for a moment.

“It isn’t bad news?”

Mrs. Green fanned herself with a clean pocket-handkerchief.

“Stands to reason it wouldn’t be. You wouldn’t think so little of me as
that! If I run myself out of breath, which I have and no mistake, it’s
on account of what you said to me this morning. ‘Let me know’, you said,
‘if so be you hear anything’. And first minute I got Lily off and had a
word with William Cole that come in behaving himself as if he was
Hitler—that directly minute I put on my hat and run over.”

Susan opened the dining-room door.

“Better come in here.”

For the moment her relief was beyond words—just that immediate relief
which does not look ahead. Then it changed to suspense. But there was no
way of hurrying Mrs. Green. She would take her time and tell her tale in
her own way.

The dining-room table was strewn with large sheets of drawing-paper.
Bill Carrick, with a pencil in his hand and a determined frown upon his
brow, was concentrating upon the possible plumbing problems of Mr.
Gilbert Garnish. When he lifted his head and beheld Mrs. Green the frown
deepened involuntarily.

Susan put a hand on his shoulder.

“Bill, Mrs. Green has come to tell us something—good news—you did say
good news, didn’t you?” Her voice implored Mrs. Green—or fate—to let
the news be good.

Mrs. Green regarded them with benevolence. She was not offended by the
frown, because men were all alike the way they looked at you if you
interrupted them when they were doing anything. You’d think they hated
the very sight of you if you didn’t know better. She took the chair
which Susan had pulled out for her, loosened her coat at the neck, and
told them what Lily had seen on Monday evening.

“Oh, Mrs. Green!” Susan took hold of one of her hands and squeezed it.

Bill Carrick had turned pale. Gilbert Garnish’s drains dazzled before
his eyes. He pushed the sheets away.

“Lily is sure she saw Miss de Lisle—she couldn’t be making a mistake?”

Mrs. Green turned a glowing face upon him.

“Now would I be coming here to tell you if she wasn’t sure?”

“I don’t know,” said Bill. “That’s the point—is she sure?”

“Certain sure. Lily isn’t one to say she seen anyone if she didn’t. A
truthfuller girl doesn’t live though I say it. The best eyes in the
village too—and I don’t mean for looks only. No, Mr. Bill, if Lily said
she seen her, then she seen her and there’s no getting from it. William
Cole, he tried hard enough to stop her letting on, but I had it out of
her, and I had it out with him when he come round just now. He needn’t
think he can come it over me like he does over her. ‘No,’ I said,
‘Lily’s not here, William’, I said, ‘and if you want to know where she
is, she’s gone back up to King’s Bourne to tell the police what she did
ought to have told them Monday night, and what she would have told them
if so be as you hadn’t carried on like you hadn’t got any right to. Look
at the talk and trouble you’ve brought on Mr. Bill and Miss Susan making
Lily hold her tongue like that. You did ought to be ashamed of
yourself’, I said. Well, he flared up properly, I can tell you. Jealous,
that’s what he is. Said all Lily wanted was to get her picture in the
papers, and to put herself forward to be took notice of by the London
police. And I said to him, ‘William Cole, you’re just plain jealous, and
a jealous husband’s like having a stone in your shoe, it don’t get any
better as you go along, and if I’ve any say, you won’t never be any
husband of Lily’s,’ I said. And with that he said something he shouldn’t
and banged the door and off down the street on his bicycle.”

Bill pushed back his chair and got up. Mrs. Green would go on like this
till all was blue, and he couldn’t stand any more of it. Was this story
of Lily’s going to make any difference, or wasn’t it? Was it dawn after
nightmare, or was it only a spark of hope which might peter out and
leave them in the dark again?

He stood by Susan for a moment and pulled her round to face him. He was
frightfully pale.

“I’m going out—I’ve got to think. I’ll try and give Lane the slip.
Don’t build _too_ much, Susan.”

For a moment Mrs. Green might not have been there. Susan looked at him
and said with quivering lips,

“I must have _something_.”

He put his cheek against hers. The grip of his hands hurt her. Then he
straightened up, let go of her, and went out through the kitchen.

Mrs. Green dabbed her eyes.

“Don’t you take on, my dear,” she said. “A nice walk’ll do him all the
good in the world. I could see how he was when I come in. I’ve often
thought it funny about men. When a woman’s upset in her mind what she
wants is a lay down on her bed or a nice cup of tea, but men’s all the
same, they want to get outside—can’t stay in the house, and don’t want
to be fussed round. Walk miles they will, where a woman’ll set down and
cry. Of course if they’re the drinking sort they’ll be down to the
Magpie. But that’s not Mr. Bill’s way. He isn’t the drinking kind, and
you’ve got to be thankful for that.” She dabbed her eyes and said in a
choked voice, “Lily’s father was. And that’s why I take on about Lily.
If you’ve had a bad husband yourself you know what it means. And I don’t
say William drinks, for he don’t, but an overmastering, dictating,
domineering king of the castle he is, and there’s no getting from it.
And that don’t make for a happy life whether you take it lying down same
as Lily does, or standing up and giving him back as good as you get,
which ’ud be my way.”

Susan was to look back afterwards and think how strange it was that with
Bill’s life, and her life, and all their happiness in the balance, she
and Mrs. Green should have sat there for the best part of an hour by the
clock talking about William Cole, and Lily’s chances of happiness as his
wife.




                               CHAPTER XL


Up at King’s Bourne Inspector Lamb continued his interrogation of the
household. Mrs. Raby, Esther the other housemaid, and Doris the
between-maid, had each assured him that they had neither seen Robert go
out nor heard his motor-bicycle—“but then of course we wouldn’t—we had
the wireless on.”

Old Lamb lost his temper. His red face turned plum-coloured and he
brought his fist down with a bang upon Lucas Dale’s blotting-pad.

“Don’t anyone in this house ever stop playing gramophone records, or
having baths, or listening to the wireless?”

“Oh, yes, sir.” That was Doris, with a sniff. But Esther Coleworthy,
small, dark-eyed, and uppish, flickered her eyelashes and said with a
toss of the head, “Oh, well—once in a while—when there’s something
better to do.” Mrs. Raby, stout and shapeless, opined in a good-natured
voice that a bit of music kept things going and didn’t do no harm to
nobody.

Lamb dismissed them curtly.

“Well, that brings us back to Raby, who told Robert he could go out
about six o’clock.”

Frank Abbott nodded.

“It was just on six when I came out of the study and Raby told me he’d
let Robert go.”

“And that’s all we’ve got. Raby no more than anyone else heard the
motor-bicycle. They were all listening to that infernal wireless, and
when Robert came in about seven I suppose it was still going on, and the
water-pipes drumming into the bargain. Seems to me they could have a
machine-gun going in this house and nobody’d hear it. Not that I think
it was Robert. It might have been, but I don’t think it was. After all,
you’ve got to have a motive, and where’s anything that begins to look
like a motive for Robert?”

“You never can tell.”

“No, but you can make a pretty good guess and see what comes of it. Take
Carrick—he’s got an overwhelming motive. He’s overheard threatening to
do what I believe he did do, and by his own admission and that of Miss
Lenox he was on the spot when the shot was fired, or as near as makes no
difference. As to this second business, if he hasn’t got a cast-iron
alibi, I’ll say what I said before, it’s ten thousand pounds to a
halfpenny he knew Robert had a motor-bicycle and where he kept it, and
with all those women sitting with their heads in a loudspeaker there was
nothing to stop him running the bike out, and running it over to
Ledlington, and running it back again. So you’ll just step down to the
Little House and ask Lane what comings and goings there’ve been. And
then you will tell Mr. Carrick I’d like a word with him, but you needn’t
tell him why.”

Frank Abbott strolled down the garden. Just across the village street
from the Little House he came upon Constable Lane in an apologetic frame
of mind.

“Come down the hill not five minutes ago, Mr. Bill did, and clapped me
on the shoulder. ‘I’m one up on you, Lane,’ he says. ‘We’ve had some
nice outings, but I’ve a fancy for my own company tonight’, he says.
Then he laughs and off into the house, and I give you my word I didn’t
know he was out.”

“Mrs. Green been here?”

“An hour and a bit over—only just gone.”

Frank Abbott gave his Inspector marks. If Mrs. Green had been here for
an hour, then the Little House knew as much as Lily did. He went across
the road and used the knocker.

The talk in the drawing-room broke suddenly at the sound. They were all
there—Mrs. O’Hara on her sofa, Bill and Susan standing together in
front of the fire. Cathy in a low chair, leaning forward with her chin
in her hand, eyes wide and lips parted. Susan had just finished
repeating Mrs. Green’s account of what Lily had seen.

“But that means—oh, Susan, if Lily really saw Miss de Lisle there——”
Cathy’s voice shook and trailed away.

“It might mean she shot him, or——” Susan hesitated—“or it might mean
that she saw who shot him. I should think they would arrest her. Anyhow
they’re bound to find her—to find out what she knows.”

Cathy’s eyelids fell. Her lips moved stiffly.

“Arrest her?” she said.

Mrs. O’Hara gave a little cough.

“The thought of an innocent person being arrested is naturally
disturbing, but nothing of that sort will happen, my dear.”

Cathy looked up with a startled expression, and it was at this moment
that the knocking came upon the door. Before anyone else could move she
ran out of the room. Through the half open door they heard Frank
Abbott’s voice. A cold breath from the outer air blew in. Mrs. O’Hara
pulled her shawl about her, and Bill put his arm round Susan for a
moment and held her close. Then he turned with a jerk and went out into
the hall, and she after him. There was a low, brief interchange of
words, and the sound of the front door falling to.

Mrs. O’Hara shivered slightly. She pushed the rug off her feet. As Cathy
came back into the room, she was putting her knitting away.

“Mummy—oh, Mummy!”

“Darling, what is it? You look very much upset. Have they really
arrested that Miss de Lisle?”

“I don’t know—I don’t think so. I think something dreadful has
happened. He—he looked like that.”

“Darling, who?”

“That Mr. Abbott. He wanted to know where Bill had been since six
o’clock and—and—why should he want to know that?”

“I can’t imagine,” said Mrs. O’Hara.

Cathy came quite close and stared at her.

“I know it’s something dreadful. He’s taken Bill up to King’s Bourne,
and Susan’s gone too. I think they’re going to arrest Bill.”

“Oh, no, my dear, they won’t do that.”

Cathy put out her hands, and drew them back again without touching her
mother.

“They will unless you stop them. Perhaps they’ll arrest Miss de Lisle.
Oh, Mummy, you can’t let them do that—you can’t let them arrest
anyone!”

Mrs. O’Hara sat up and put her feet down.

“Darling, why not?”

“I saw you,” said Cathy in a breaking voice.

“Dear me!”

“You came along to my room and looked at me, but I didn’t open my
eyes—I didn’t feel as if I could talk to anyone. And then you went into
Susan’s room, and you put on the light there. Both the doors were open,
and I could see right through. I saw you take her shoes and put them
on.” She paused and said with a sob, “Susan thinks it was me—and I let
her—I didn’t tell. There was a footprint inside the study—you must
have stepped in the clay—and I let Susan think it was me—she thinks I
wore those shoes.”

“They were most uncomfortable,” said Mrs. O’Hara. “So much too large.
But I thought I should feel the damp in my house shoes—all mine are so
thin. Of course yours would be a much better fit, darling, but I didn’t
want to disturb you.”

Cathy gave a dry sob.

“I saw you pick up Susan’s handkerchief from the dressing-table and tuck
it into your sleeve.”

“I am always dropping handkerchiefs,” said Mrs. O’Hara—“and the
interview might have been a very emotional one.”

“What interview?”

“Darling, I thought you would guess. I was going to tell Mr. Dale that I
couldn’t possibly dream of letting Susan marry him. She was obviously
very unhappy about it, and I was going to tell him so.”

Cathy stood still and trembled.

“And did you?”

“No, darling,” said Mrs. O’Hara in a practical voice. “I didn’t get the
chance.”

“Mummy!”

Mrs. O’Hara removed her shawl and patted her hair.

“I think, darling, if you will get me my fur coat and those shoes of
Susan’s, I had better just go up to King’s Bourne and talk to the
Inspector. I felt no ill effects at all the other night. And I don’t
think I need trouble about a hat—this light shawl will do very well to
put over my head. But I should like my gloves—the loose washing ones I
took the other night will do. They are in my left-hand drawer.”




                              CHAPTER XLI


Mrs. O’Hara seemed quite to enjoy the walk, up hill though it was.

“I used to be very fond of walking when I was a girl, but of course it
is many years now since I have done anything in that way—just down to
church and back in summer. James was always so particular about not
taking the car out on Sundays. But I don’t know when I was out walking
after dark until the other night, and really, darling, I had forgotten
it was so pleasant. Quite a mild air if a little damp, but I had on my
fur coat, and it doesn’t seem to have done me any harm—in fact I really
feel all the better for it.”

Cathy listened in a sort of horrified astonishment. She said, “Oh,
Mummy!” in a choked, protesting voice.

“Well,” said Mrs. O’Hara equably, “one just goes on doing the same
things every day because there isn’t anything else to do, and when
anything really happens, even if it’s something dreadful, one can’t help
feeling as if it made a break, if you know what I mean.”

They came out of the little orchard, skirted the tennis court, and after
crossing the lower terrace came up the left-hand steps.

“This is the way I came up on Monday,” said Mrs. O’Hara. “But when I was
coming away I went down by the farther steps, because I thought I heard
someone coming up this way, and I think from what I have heard since
that it must have been Susan. I didn’t want to meet anyone just then of
course, so I went the other way. I see there is a light in the study,
darling, so we will just knock on the glass door and go in that way.”

At the sound of that knocking Inspector Lamb stopped short in the middle
of a sentence. It was the sentence with which a police officer is bound
to caution the person whom he is arresting. The hand he had stretched
out fell from Bill Carrick’s shoulder. He said in a tone of sharp
annoyance,

“What’s that?”

It was as if the knocking had broken something. Not a silence, for there
had been no silence to break—the Inspector had been speaking. But
something did break—the tension which held Bill with his shoulders
squared facing arrest, which fixed Susan where she stood, one hand at
her throat, the other leaning upon the writing-table, her eyes on Bill
as if she was looking her last at him and could not look away.

Frank Abbott could not look away either. But it was Susan Lenox at whom
he was looking—Susan with all the colour and beauty drained from her
face and nothing left but pain. For a moment the pain was his own. Then
the knocking fell and the tension broke. The Inspector spoke his sharp
“What’s that?” Susan’s breast lifted with a long breath, and as Abbott
went to open the door he was aware that she and Bill were moving,
drawing together, and turning to see who was coming in.

Mrs. O’Hara came in in her fur coat with a small fleecy shawl over her
head and Cathy behind her, a little exhausted ghost, bare-headed, her
fine colourless hair all blown about. In spite of Susan’s shoes, which
were a size too large for her, Milly O’Hara moved with grace. She
brought a social manner with her. As she came up to the writing-table,
it became impossible to forget that the house, this very room, had been
the heritage of her family for many generations. By the far door hung
the portrait, a doubtful Lely, of the Millicent Bourne who had been one
of Catherine of Braganza’s maids of honour. From over the mantelpiece
she herself looked down from Lazlo’s canvas, young and lovely, with
Laura at her side. She looked up at the picture for a moment, because
she could never come into this room without that silent greeting for
Laura. Then, as her eyes dropped, she seemed to become aware of
something strange. She had been speaking, but no one else had spoken,
until now as she moved towards a chair the Inspector said in a harsher
tone than was usual with him,

“Mrs. O’Hara, I must ask you to leave us.” He turned to Cathy. “Please
take your mother away.”

A look of gentle surprise crossed Milly O’Hara’s face. Having reached
the chair, she seated herself, removed the shawl from her head, opened
her fur coat, unwound a long grey chiffon scarf from about her neck, and
said,

“But, Inspector, I have something to say. I have come here on purpose to
say it.”

“You had really better go, Aunt Milly,” said Bill.

He and Susan were standing together now, and Susan’s hands were locked
about his arm. Really Susan looked very pale—very pale indeed. Mrs.
O’Hara shook her head slightly at Bill and turned graciously to the
Inspector.

“I must apologize for interrupting you, but I really have something to
say. Perhaps before we go any further you will tell me whether it is
true that you are thinking of arresting someone.”

“Perfectly true,” said Inspector Lamb rather grimly.

“Then if that is the case, I am afraid I have no choice, because of
course I couldn’t let you arrest an innocent person, whether it was Miss
de Lisle or anyone else, much as I dislike the idea of the publicity
involved—and really the press seem to me to go into the most
unnecessary details nowadays, though of course it is all quite
interesting if you can look at it from the standpoint of an outsider,
which in this case I most unfortunately cannot do.”

Cathy said “Mummy!” in an agonized voice. She went down on her knees by
the chair.

Mrs. O’Hara put out a hand and patted her.

“Now, darling, you mustn’t upset yourself. You wouldn’t want any
innocent person to get into trouble, would you? And I am sure the
Inspector will do all he can to keep your name out of it.” She smiled
faintly at Lamb, who had turned a really alarming colour. He put a
finger inside his collar as if to loosen it, replied to the smile with a
portentous frown, and said with as much restraint as he could manage,

“What are you talking about, madam?”

Mrs. O’Hara’s eyes opened widely. She said in a tone of surprise,

“But, Inspector—I was talking about Mr. Dale—I thought we all were.”

He said firmly, “If you know anything about the murder of Mr. Dale,
madam, I must ask you to say so plainly, and if you do not, I must ask
you to leave us.”

“But, Inspector——”

“Mrs. O’Hara, do you, or do you not know anything about this murder?”

This time he got his plain answer. With her hands lightly folded in her
lap and in a gently practical tone she replied,

“Of course I do—I was there.”

There was a moment of profound silence. Probably no one breathed.
Looking round with a kind of pleased surprise, Mrs. O’Hara encountered
the apoplectic stare of Inspector Lamb, Frank Abbott’s fixed pale gaze,
Bill’s frozen incredulity, Susan’s horror, and the clouded anguish in
Cathy’s eyes. Incredibly, she appeared gratified by the effect she had
produced. She nodded slightly and said in a conversational tone,

“Perhaps I had better explain.”

Frank Abbott alone found voice.

“It might be a good plan,” he said, and heard his Inspector snort.

Mrs. O’Hara smiled upon him. He really had quite a look of the Francis
Abbott with whom she had danced through that brief season before the
war. She must remember to ask him if he was a relation. The smile was a
gracious one. She said,

“The only reason I didn’t speak of it before was because of Cathy. So
disagreeable for a young girl to have her name in the papers—though I
must say a good many of them don’t seem to mind that nowadays.”

The Inspector broke in rather loudly.

“You say you were present when Mr. Dale was shot?”

“Oh, yes.”

“And you wish to make a statement?”

“I am quite willing to do so. You see, I couldn’t let an innocent
person——”

“Quite so. Abbott!”

Addressed in this peremptory voice, Frank Abbott produced notebook and
fountain pen. Mrs. O’Hara watched him with interest.

“I suppose I had better begin from the beginning?”

“If you will.”

She settled herself comfortably and smiled at Susan, then began.

“Of course, Inspector, you will understand that I don’t want what I am
saying to get into the papers. Family matters—well, perhaps you have a
family yourself. But so much has been in the papers already that perhaps
it doesn’t matter, and I must just rely on you to do what you can. You
see, when my niece told me that she had broken off her engagement to Mr.
Carrick and was going to marry Mr. Dale, I saw at once that it wouldn’t
do at all. She didn’t even pretend to be happy, and I could see that it
would never do. I made up my mind that I must have a talk with Mr. Dale
and tell him so, and as there is no time like the present, I thought I
would just walk up through the garden. It was a very mild evening——”

“What evening are you referring to?”

“Oh, Monday—the day Mr. Dale was shot. That is what I am telling you
about. I just went in to see if Cathy was asleep, and I thought she was.
And then I went into Susan’s room, which is just opposite, to get some
shoes because all mine are so thin. And it seems Cathy wasn’t asleep,
because she saw me.”

Susan leaned forward.

“_You_ took the shoes, Aunt Milly—_you_?”

“Oh, yes, my dear.”

Susan began to tremble.

“Did you take one of my handkerchiefs too?”

“I believe I did—Cathy says so. But I couldn’t find it afterwards, so I
am afraid I must have dropped it.”

Susan leaned back hard against Bill’s arm.

“Fibs picked it up. He’s been trying to blackmail me. He picked it up by
Mr. Dale’s body.”

“What’s this?” said Lamb. “Who’s Fibs?”

Susan said, “Mr. Phipson.”

“A very rude nickname,” said Mrs. O’Hara reprovingly. “But
blackmail—oh, he really shouldn’t have done that!”

In a firm official voice Inspector Lamb said,

“Will you kindly proceed with your statement, madam.”

Mrs. O’Hara appeared to be slightly taken aback. She said,

“Yes, yes—oh, certainly. But I am afraid that just for the moment I am
not quite sure. . . . Susan dear, where had I got to?”

Lamb answered before Susan could.

“You had taken a pair of shoes and a handkerchief belonging to Miss
Lenox, and you were intending to walk up the garden and have a
conversation with Mr. Dale upon the subject of his marriage to your
niece. I shall be glad if you will proceed.”

“Yes, yes—of course—how stupid of me!” said Mrs. O’Hara with her faint
gracious smile. “Cathy darling, I think it would be much better if you
would have a chair and lean back. You know kneeling is apt to make you
faint. Oh, thank you so much, Mr. Abbott. And now—let me see. . . . Oh,
yes, I put on Susan’s shoes—terribly loose of course, but I managed
quite well—I have them on now as you may have noticed. And then I put
on my fur coat, and this cloud over my hair—my mother used to tell me
they called them fascinators when she was a girl—and I came out through
the French window in the drawing-room, because of course I didn’t want
Susan or Bill to hear me.”

“Did you know where they were?”

“Well, I knew they would be in the dining-room or the kitchen, and of
course I didn’t want them to know that I was going to see Mr. Dale.”

“Go on, madam.”

“Well, I managed quite nicely. Really it felt quite like old times
walking up through the garden, and when I came to the terrace and saw
that there was a light in the study——”

“How did you see it?”

“Well, I came up the steps at this corner, and looking along the side of
the house, I could see that one of the windows in the bay was open and
the curtain drawn back, so I knew that Mr. Dale must be there. I
thought, why go round to the front door when he can let me in quite
nicely and privately and we can have our talk without anyone knowing.
There is such a terrible amount of gossip in a village, and I thought
how much better it would be if no one were to know that I had come to
see Mr. Dale.”

Frank Abbott’s head was bent over his notes. The light struck down upon
his pale, sleek hair. Every other pair of eyes in the room was bent on
Mrs. O’Hara’s face, which retained its habitual expression though warmed
by an unusual flush. She continued without hurry or confusion.

“I intended to knock upon the glass door, but when I got there I found
that it was ajar. As you can see, it opens outwards. I pulled it towards
me, and was just going to draw the curtain back, when I heard voices and
realized that Mr. Dale was not alone.” Mrs. O’Hara paused and looked
from one to another. “I stood just where I was for a moment. Of course I
had no idea that I might be overhearing a private conversation. I just
felt that it was a little awkward, and I wanted a moment to make up my
mind what I had better do next. I do hope, Inspector, that you won’t
think that I had any idea of eavesdropping—such an unpleasant
thing——”

“What did you hear?” said the Inspector.

Mrs. O’Hara’s flush deepened. It was very becoming.

“This is what I should so much have preferred not to repeat,” she said.
“And I do hope, Inspector, that it will not be necessary for the
press——”

“What did you _hear_, madam?”

Mrs. O’Hara resigned herself with a sigh.

“I heard my daughter’s name. Nothing else would have made me go on
listening, but when you hear something like that about your own
daughter——”

The Inspector jerked a handkerchief from his sleeve and passed it over
an empurpled brow.

“Will you kindly state what you heard!”

Mrs. O’Hara looked at him with a faint surprise.

“Oh, yes. But I want you to understand what a shock it was. I really
could hardly believe my ears, but he spoke so very distinctly——”

“Who spoke?” said the Inspector.

There was a hush in the room. Frank Abbott raised his head.

“Mr. Phipson.”

The name fell into the hush and broke it. The Inspector made a quick
movement.

“What did he say?”

Mrs. O’Hara gave a little cough.

“I really _couldn’t_ believe my ears——”

“What did he _say_?”

“He said—and, as I was telling you, I found it difficult to believe my
own ears, only he spoke so very distinctly, though not in a very loud
voice——”

“Mrs. O’Hara—_what did he say?_”

“He said, ‘I saw you put the pearls into Cathy’s bag’.”




                              CHAPTER XLII


Everyone except Frank Abbott made some sound or movement. Lamb said,
“_What!_” Cathy drew in her breath in a sob. Bill Carrick said something
short and sharp. Susan made no audible sound. A shudder swept her from
head to foot. Frank Abbott’s eyes were upon her. He looked, and looked
away. Then he wrote down what Mrs. O’Hara had said.

To everyone’s surprise Cathy spoke. She turned her eyes upon Inspector
Lamb and spoke to him with the simplicity and earnestness of a child.

“That was how he got Susan to say she would marry him. He had the pearls
out to show to the Veres and the Micklehams, and I had to put them away
in the safe. Afterwards he said that some of them were gone. He sent for
Susan and made her look in my bag, and the pearls were there. He said if
Susan would marry him, he wouldn’t prosecute. But I wouldn’t have let
her do it—I really wouldn’t. I was ill—but I wouldn’t have let her
marry him.”

Old Lamb looked at her kindly. When he was not angry his voice could be
soft. He said,

“That’s all right, Miss O’Hara—I’m sure you wouldn’t. And now I’d like
your mother to go on.”

Mrs. O’Hara murmured “Cathy darling!” and proceeded.

“You can imagine what I felt like. I really couldn’t go away after that.
But of course I didn’t want to stand in a draught, so I stepped inside
and pulled the door to behind me—there is just room behind the curtain.
Do you want me to tell you just what they said?”

“Yes, please. Who else was there?”

“Oh, Mr. Dale. And he said, ‘What are you talking about?’ And Mr.
Phipson said, ‘You know very well what I am talking about. You put those
pearls in Cathy’s bag on Saturday morning. She left the bag on a chair,
and you put them in while she was over there at her table with her back
to you.’ Mr. Dale said, ‘And where were you?’ Mr. Phipson said the far
door was ajar. Mr. Dale said, ‘Eavesdropping, Monty?’ and Mr. Phipson
said there wasn’t anything to hear, but he’d seen what he had seen, and
perhaps Miss Susan Lenox would be interested. That was when Mr. Dale
really got angry. He used the most dreadful language, and I hope you
won’t expect me to repeat it, for I don’t think I could—such very odd
words—it really didn’t sound at all nice.”

“I’m sure it didn’t,” said the Inspector heartily. “Will you please go
on?”

Mrs. O’Hara went on.

“I felt very awkward indeed. It was most unpleasant. Mr. Dale said, ‘You
little rat! Do you think you can blackmail me? I could have smashed you
any time this year.’ I looked between the curtains—there was just a
little space, you know—and Mr. Dale was in his chair and Mr. Phipson
standing at the end of the writing-table on Mr. Dale’s right between him
and the fire. Mr. Dale looked frightfully angry, and Mr. Phipson was
shaking. Mr. Dale took some papers out of a drawer and banged them down
in front of him and said, ‘It’s all here. Did you think you could steal
from me without my finding you out? Robson’s contract’—I think it was
Robson he said—‘you made two hundred out of that. And a hundred from
Mather. And how much did you sell me for to Levinsky over the last
consignment for Spain? If you’ve forgotten, you’ll find it all here.
You’ve been selling me and double-crossing me for years, and now I’m
going to smash you!’ He got up whilst he was speaking and went over to
the fire. I thought he was going to ring the bell, and Mr. Phipson
thought so too. He called out to Mr. Dale to wait, and he put his hand
down and took something out of one of the drawers. It was that drawer on
your right, Inspector—the second one from the top. I didn’t see which
one it was at the time, but I did afterwards, because the drawer was
open. And I didn’t see what he took out, but of course it was the
pistol. And of course Mr. Dale didn’t see anything, because he had his
back to him.”

“Go on, Mrs. O’Hara.”

“Mr. Dale turned round and came back again. I don’t think now that he
really meant to ring the bell—I think he just meant to frighten Mr.
Phipson. Well, he came back and sat down in his chair again, just where
you are sitting, Inspector. Mr. Phipson had come round to this side of
the table, because when Mr. Dale turned he had backed away from him as
if he was afraid. Mr. Dale was sitting at the table with the papers in
front of him, and Mr. Phipson was between him and me with his right hand
in his pocket—and of course if I had known that he had a pistol——”

“You didn’t see the pistol, Mrs. O’Hara?”

“Not then, Inspector, or of course I should have thought it my duty to
warn Mr. Dale.”

“Go on.”

“Mr. Dale said, ‘Well? Anything to say for yourself, rat?’—and of
course that was a very offensive way of speaking. And Mr. Phipson said,
‘It’s all a dreadful mistake, and if you’ll listen to me, I can
explain.’ Mr. Dale said, ‘Explain nix!’—at least that’s what I thought
he said. And then he said, ‘You can make your explanations to the
police. I’m ringing them up here and now.’ The telephone was on his
right. He couldn’t reach it because his chair was pushed back from the
table. I don’t know whether he really meant to telephone or not, but he
turned that way and he began to get up, and Mr. Phipson shot him. He
took his hand out of his pocket and ran in quite close and shot him.”

“You’ll swear to that?”

“Oh, yes, Inspector—I saw it. And of course it was a most terrible
shock. Mr. Dale fell down out of his chair—he was just getting up, and
he fell right down with a crash. I didn’t seem to be able to do anything
except stand quite still. It was really quite a horrible experience, and
I must say that Mr. Phipson’s behaviour shocked me very much. Such a
quiet little man, and so obliging, but he really behaved in the most
callous manner. He didn’t even feel Mr. Dale’s pulse. In fact he seemed
to think only of himself. It shocked me dreadfully.”

“What did he do?”

“He took out his pocket handkerchief, and wiped the pistol with it, and
put it down on the table.”

“Will you show me where?”

Mrs. O’Hara indicated a spot, and he nodded.

“Go on.”

“Then he grabbed up the papers and ran out of the room by the farther
door.”

“And you, Mrs. O’Hara?”

She looked at him with some reproach.

“Well, naturally, I went to see if poor Mr. Dale was really dead, and of
course I saw at once that he was—I was with a hospital, you know, in
France during the war. So when I saw that there was nothing I could do I
came away, because I naturally didn’t wish to have Cathy and Susan mixed
up in such an unpleasant affair.”

Lamb looked at her sternly.

“You did very wrong, Mrs. O’Hara.”

“Oh, no—I don’t think so. It would have been most unpleasant for two
young girls to be brought into a murder case. I thought it would be much
better for everybody if it was suicide, and I think so still.”

The Inspector’s colour deepened alarmingly. Frank Abbott bent his head.

“_Suicide?_ Madam, how could it be suicide—with the revolver on the
table and completely out of his reach?”

An expression of surprise flitted across Mrs. O’Hara’s face.

“Do you know, I never thought about that,” she said. “What a pity!
Because I could so easily have put it on the floor beside him, or even
in his hand.”

Lamb’s very neck became suffused. He opened his mouth to speak and shut
it again. The inadequacy of words held him dumb. He heard Mrs. O’Hara
say with a sigh, “So I came away,” and at this he roused himself.

“You went out through the glass door?”

“Oh, yes.”

“Did you shut it behind you?”

“I don’t think I did—oh, no, I left it open.”

“And how did you return to the Little House?”

“I ran along the terrace and down the steps at the other end.”

“Why did you do that?”

“I thought I heard someone coming.”

Bill Carrick said in a puzzled voice, “Would that be me? I don’t quite
see——”

“Not _you_,” said Frank Abbott, looking up. “You must have crossed the
terrace while Mrs. O’Hara was behind the curtain or returning to the
shelter of the curtain, because the glass door wasn’t open then. By the
time you got to the side window and looked in Mrs. O’Hara had opened the
door and was out on the terrace. What she heard must have been Miss
Lenox crossing the terrace below her. She went the other way and missed
her, and you came along from the window and found the glass door open.
It all fits in.” He looked at his Inspector and got a frown, because,
whether it fitted or not, it wasn’t his place to say so.

Lamb rose to his feet clothed with authority.

“The question now is,” he said—“where is Mr. Phipson?”

It was as he spoke that a most curious sound of bumping and scuffling
made itself heard. The door was bounced open, banging back against the
wall and thence rebounding, and Mr. Montague Phipson shot into the room
propelled by the toe of Vincent Bell’s right boot. The square American
pattern lent itself admirably to this display of force. Mr. Phipson,
clawing at the air, fetched up against the Inspector’s massive form. He
clawed and clutched at the Inspector. Vincent Bell’s voice followed him.

“The little skunk’s been trying to blackmail me, Captain. I’m giving him
in charge.”

Mr. Phipson straightened himself. He stood back a pace, recovered his
dangling glasses, and opened his mouth to speak.

But the Inspector spoke first. His hand fell upon a shrinking shoulder.
His voice came loud upon shrinking ears.

“Montague Phipson, I arrest you for the murder of Lucas Dale, and I warn
you that anything you say may be taken down and used in evidence against
you.”




                             CHAPTER XLIII


Two days later, in the middle of the afternoon, Frank Abbott walked up
to the front door of the Little House and knocked upon it. He looked
like any young man who has come to pay a social call. There was nothing
about the set of his coat to suggest that it harboured notebook and
fountain pen. His well cut shoes shone with polish. His hair was a
reminder of the fact that his nickname of Fug had been gained by what
his schoolfellows considered an excessive devotion to hair oil.

Cathy opened to him and showed him a pale, scared face which brightened
a little when he said, “Please don’t look like that—I’ve really only
come to say good-bye.”

Reassuring, but really quite unnecessary. A funny little spark of pride
flicked up in Cathy’s mind. Policemen didn’t come and say good-bye. The
inquest on Lucas Dale had been yesterday. The inquest on Cora de Lisle
was to have been at two o’clock this afternoon in Ledlington, which
meant that the London police had no more to do with King’s Bourne and
its affairs, and that Mr. Abbott could very well have caught an
afternoon train and gone back to town.

She took him into the drawing-room, where Mrs. O’Hara appeared delighted
to see him. Instead of being on the sofa she was sitting up in an
arm-chair with her knitting in a billow of pale pink wool upon her
knees. Susan and Bill Carrick were not there. Frank Abbott’s light eyes
went round the room, found it empty of all he had hoped for, and came
back to Mrs. O’Hara’s welcoming smile.

“Mr. Abbott—how nice of you! Draw up that chair and sit down. . . . And
now you can tell us what happened at the inquest. I can’t help feeling
interested, you know, though I would not have gone to it for the world,
and nor would Susan or Cathy. I know people do all sorts of
extraordinary things nowadays, but an inquest always seems to me to be
most unsuitable for a woman. Of course we were obliged to go to the one
on Mr. Dale because of having to give evidence—and I’m sure Dr.
Matthews made it as easy for all of us as he possibly could—the
Coroner, you know—such a very old friend, and his brother my own
doctor, always so kind. He succeeded Dr. Carrick in the practice—Bill’s
father—but of course we knew him long before that, because their
great-uncle, old Sir Henry Matthews at Bransley Park, used to have them
to stay in the holidays, and very nice well-behaved boys they were. Only
there was no money, and the Park had to be sold. . . .” Mrs. O’Hara
flowed on.

Frank Abbott said yes, he thought the Coroner had been very kind to her,
and didn’t say that she might thank her stars she wasn’t in serious
trouble for withholding important evidence.

Cathy, standing by the fire, wanting him to go, struck in.

“What happened in Ledlington? That’s what you came to tell us, isn’t
it?”

Frank Abbott half turned, let his cool glance slide over her in the way
she so much disliked, and said,

“It didn’t take long. They brought in a verdict of wilful murder against
Phipson.”

Cathy shuddered.

“Did he—do it?”

“Oh, yes—there wasn’t any doubt about that after Mrs. O’Hara had told
her story. He must have come to the far door in the study whilst the
Inspector was reading Lily Green’s statement over to her before getting
her to sign it. When he heard that she had actually seen Cora de Lisle
by the open window just after the shot was fired he must have realized
his danger. She might have seen him.”

“Lily saw Miss de Lisle run past the window coming from the terrace
after the shot,” said Cathy. “Do you think she did see him?”

“I don’t know. I think it happened this way. Dale had given her a
fifty-pound note, but he had three others in his note-case, and she had
probably seen them. Then she had a drink at the Magpie, and thought what
a fool she’d been to let him down so light, and I think she went back to
see what more she could get. We shall never know exactly what happened.
She probably saw Phipson talking to Dale—she’d never have passed that
open window without looking in. She may have seen the murder, rushed on
towards the terrace, and then turned back in a panic because she heard
Carrick coming up the garden. But I think it’s much more likely that she
heard the shot as she was coming round to the glass door, and that she
then ran back along the way that she had come. She may have looked in at
the window as she passed and seen what Carrick saw a moment
later—Dale’s hand and arm stretched out along the floor from behind the
writing-table. When I went to see her I was sure she knew that Dale was
dead.”

“How clever of you!” said Mrs. O’Hara. “You must really have a very
interesting life. Please do go on. It is all most interesting, though of
course very shocking too. I am really most disappointed in Mr. Phipson.
Such a polite little man, though I must say he always did remind me of a
ferret—and you can’t trust them, can you? I was once quite badly bitten
by a jill ferret belonging to William Cole’s father. But pray do go on.”

“Well, I can only tell you what I think. I think Phipson realized the
danger he was in from Cora de Lisle and went off to silence her. Robert
kept his motor-bicycle and a helmet and goggles in a shed in the yard.
Phipson had only to slip on a Burberry and his best friend wouldn’t know
him. Now I can stop thinking and give you facts. He rode Robert’s
bicycle into Ledlington, hit Miss de Lisle over the head with the poker,
and rode back. We’ve got an errand-boy who saw him turn out of Gladstone
Villas. He noticed the number of the bike—boys do, you know. But what
puts it fair and square on Phipson is just the lucky chance that Cora de
Lisle had spilt the dregs of a bottle of brandy on the floor of her
room. She was packing—running away, I expect—and the whole place was
littered. Well, one of the things on the floor was a fag-end of
lipstick, and the man who killed her had trodden it into the puddle of
brandy. Most of it went into the carpet, but there was enough on his
shoe to give us a cast-iron case.”

Cathy said “Oh!” and shuddered again. Mrs. O’Hara sighed.

“It only shows how careful you have to be—I mean if you are committing
a crime—and of course none of us would. It does show, doesn’t it, that
even with the greatest care it can never really be safe. I expect Mr.
Phipson thought he had been much too clever to be found out, but being a
criminal can never really be safe, and it must be a continual strain
upon the nerves. And now perhaps we had better talk about something
else. Cathy darling, you look very pale—she is sensitive, Mr. Abbott.
And there was something I really did want to ask you. The moment I heard
your name I wondered whether you could be related to an old friend of
mine, Francis Abbott. We used to dance together in 1914, just before the
war. He was reading law, but of course he joined up, and he was killed
in 1915. Tall, fair, and very good-looking, but you remind me of
him——”

Bill Carrick, opening the door in time to overhear this compliment,
surprised an unmistakable gleam of humour in Frank Abbott’s light blue
eyes. He supplied a nod and a grin himself. Abbott said,

“I had an Uncle Francis who was killed in the war, but I’m afraid I
don’t remember him.”

“So nice, and so very good-looking,” murmured Mrs. O’Hara—“but there is
quite a likeness.” She turned to Bill. “Where is Susan, dear boy?”

Bill made a face.

“Entangled with Mrs. Mickleham. I fled.”

After a little talk Frank Abbott made his farewells. Cathy’s cold hand
just touched him and withdrew, Mrs. O’Hara smiled graciously, and Bill
shook him warmly by the hand. The door closed upon him.

He stood at the gate and looked up and down the village street. Away to
the right Mr. Cox the butcher stood on his doorstep, a stout figure in a
blue apron, conversing with Mrs. Green. Away to the left young Mrs. Gill
was wheeling her twins down the hill in a double pram. If he had been a
native of Netherbourne he would have known at a glance that she had been
up at High Farm visiting her aunt Mrs. Paige, and that it was a hundred
to nothing she had half a dozen new-laid eggs and a pot of honey tucked
away under the pram cover. Over the way from behind a neat curtain of
spotted muslin old Mrs. Bogg was watching him, as she watched everyone
who came and went along the street. It was twelve years since she had
set foot to the ground, and fifteen since she had been downstairs, but
she knew everything that went on. She could have told Detective Sergeant
Frank Abbott that Miss Susan and the Vicar’s wife had turned in at that
very gate a matter of seven minutes ago—and Mrs. Mickleham beginning to
cry right out in front where everyone could see her, and wouldn’t go
into the house not for nothing Miss Susan could do, so they went round
into the garden, and unless they’d gone up to King’s Bourne they’d be
there yet. But since Frank Abbott did not even know of Mrs. Bogg’s
existence he had to do without the information. She thought him a
well-looking young man for a detective, and quite the gentleman. She
went on watching him, and all at once she saw him turn about and go up
round the house the way Miss Susan and Mrs. Mickleham had gone.

It was the sound of a rending sniff that made Frank Abbott turn his back
on the street and go round into the garden. He met Mrs. Mickleham
hurrying like a hen, with her nose very red and her long neck poking.
She sniffed again as she passed him, and dabbed at her face with a wet
crumpled ball of a handkerchief. Frank went on round the corner, and
came upon Susan disappearing into the scullery. She came face to face
with him as she turned to shut the door.

“Oh—Mr. Abbott—what is it?”

He said with a trace of bitterness in his voice, “I’m not always on
duty, Miss Lenox,” and saw her change colour.

“I’m so sorry——”

“You won’t be when you hear that I came to say good-bye.”

She seemed a little taken aback. He thought, “She didn’t expect that.
Why should she? None of them expected it. I don’t really know them—I’m
just pushing in.”

She said gravely, “That was very nice of you. Won’t you come in?”

But in the kitchen he stopped. It was, after all, the most suitable
place for her to entertain a policeman. He said,

“I’ve been in already—I’ve said good-bye to the others. I just wanted
to see you.”

Susan looked at him. The strained patience had gone from her eyes. The
deep blue was serene again, but he saw a faint distress just touch the
surface. That was all he could ever hope for—just to touch the surface
of her thought. The deeps were not for him. And then, before she could
say anything, he was talking as if they were intimates.

“It’s going to be all right now—for you and Carrick. You’ll be getting
married.”

She said, “Yes.”

“You’ll be happy——”

“Yes.” Just the one word, gravely and sweetly.

“King’s Bourne will be yours now. Shall you live there?”

“Oh, no—I’m not taking it.”

“But it’s yours—Dale left you everything.”

She shook her head.

“We couldn’t take it. Bill would hate it, and so should I.”

He looked at her with a curious feeling of pride. If you put someone on
a pedestal, you want to see her stay there. He said, out of his thought
of a moment ago,

“I’m pushing in—asking things I’ve no business to ask——”

“I didn’t think of it that way.”

“Because I’m a policeman and it’s my job to push into people’s private
affairs.”

“Oh, no, Mr. Abbott.” She paused and added gently, “You have been kind.
You didn’t really think that Bill had shot Mr. Dale, did you?”

“No—I didn’t.”

“I could feel you not thinking it—and it was such a help. I could feel
you being friendly. I’ve wanted to thank you.”

He was silent.

She said, “We are going to have a little flat until we can build. Not
London—somewhere outside. It will be very small, but we want to see our
friends. Will you come?”

He said, “Yes.”

Susan put out her hand. She smiled. The distress was gone. Bill’s
job—the little flat—friends coming and going—blue skies and happy
times——

“I’ll send you the address,” she said.

Frank Abbott took the hand, held it for a moment, and then, most
astonishingly, bent his head and kissed it. He stood up, not flushed but
pale, and went without a word.

Susan was still looking at her hand when Bill came in.

“I couldn’t think where you’d got to.”

“Nor could I,” said Susan.

“That fellow Abbott was here—came to say good-bye. Nice chap. I’ve an
idea he stood up for us to old Lamb. Pity you missed him.”

“I didn’t,” said Susan. She could feel the kiss on her hand.

“Oh, then he told you all about the inquest.”

“He never mentioned it, darling.”

Bill stared.

“Then what did you talk about?”

There was the faintest spark in the dark blue eyes.

“He asked me a lot of questions.”

“Oh, he did? What sort of questions?”

“About when we were going to be married, and whether I was happy now—he
seemed to want me to be happy—and whether I was going to take King’s
Bourne and the money——”

“He had a nerve!”

She shook her head.

“It wasn’t like that. He wanted us to be happy, and he’d have hated us
to take the money. He’s coming to see us when we get our flat.”

“Oh, he is, is he?” Bill put his arms round her. “Woman—have you been
flirting with this young man?”

The spark became slightly more pronounced.

“Darling, I don’t!”

“You do something,” said Bill gloomily. “Whatever it is, it does them
in.”

“I don’t mean to. And, Bill, he’s nice. He’ll be friends—he really
will.”

“We’ve got to get married first. How soon will you marry me?”

“I don’t know.”

“I do. Next week—Wednesday or Thursday. It depends how long it takes to
get a licence. We’ll go up to town first thing on Monday morning and
find out.”

Susan looked away.

“Bill, it’s too soon——”

“Do you want to stay on here—to have everyone talking to you and about
you, and wanting to know about King’s Bourne and that damned money of
Dale’s—and old Mother Mickleham going on like a sick hen every time she
meets you, and saying the Vicar thought it was her duty to try and get
me hanged? I tell you I won’t have it! The sooner you’re gone, the
sooner they’ll stop talking.” He dropped his head upon her shoulder. His
voice came to her muffled and broken. “Don’t you want to marry me?
_Susan!_”

All the pain came back like a sudden breaking wave. They remembered how
nearly, how very nearly, it had drowned them. They held each other
desperately and hard. Susan felt the tears run hot and blinding. She
said,

“Yes—yes—let’s go away. Oh, Bill! Let’s get married and go right away
and never come back!”

                                