William Smith was dreaming his dream. Like his fellow prisoners, he had
spent more than five hours of Christmas morning standing at attention on
the square in his ragged underclothes exposed to a bitter north-east
wind. Some of the men who had stood there with him would never stand
again. They had dropped and died. William had stuck it out. He was
strong and tough, and he was not racked as other men were racked by what
might be happening to their families. Since he did not know who he was,
he did not so much as know whether he had a family. When the Commandant
had said, addressing them all, ‘If you have wives and children, forget
them—you will never see them again,’ he was stirred to a just and
impersonal anger, but not to any private feeling, because life as far as
he was concerned had begun two years ago when he came out of hospital
with an identity disc which said he was William Smith. There was a long
number as well as the William Smith, but he was never able to feel that
it belonged to him. They put him in a camp as William Smith, and after
he had escaped and been caught the S.S. took him over and put him in a
concentration camp. Since then he had been moved twice, and each camp
was worse than the last. In this camp he was the only Englishman. He
knew some French, and he had learned some German. An old Czech who had a
knife which he had stolen at the risk of his life used to lend it to him
sometimes. They carved animals. The Czech was better at the carving, but
William had a lot of bright ideas. After a bit he got very good at the
carving too.

Day followed day, and night followed night. There was always hunger and
filth and cold, and cruelty, and a dense fog of human suffering. It was
better for William than it was for the others, because he hadn’t anyone
to worry about except himself, and he hadn’t got that sort of
temperament, so he didn’t really worry at all. And sometimes at night he
had his dream.

He was having it now. His body was crushed in among other bodies on a
bare and filthy floor, but William wasn’t there. He was having his
dream, and in his dream he was walking up three steps to an oak door. It
always began that way. The steps were old, and hollowed in the middle
from all the feet which had passed over them for many generations. They
started in the street and they went up to the door, which was the front
door of a house. It was a house in a street. He knew that, but he didn’t
know how he knew it, because he never saw any more than that—three
steps going up, and an oak door studded with nails.

The next thing that happened was that he opened the door and went into
the house. When he was awake he could remember the three steps up and
the door, but after that it was all shadowy, like things are in dreams.
What he remembered was that in the dream he had come home. There was a
hall, rather dark, and a staircase going up on the right, and he went up
the stairs. But it was all vague and dark and shimmering, like a
reflection in water when the wind ruffles it. All that he could be sure
about was that it was a happy dream.

When he was asleep it was quite different. The dream was as clear and
plain as anything that had ever happened to him in all his life. It was
much more real than anything that happened in the camp. The hall was
dark because it was panelled. The wood wasn’t really dark in itself, but
it made the hall dark. The stair that went up on the right was made of
the same wood. The newel posts were carved with the symbols of the four
Evangelists—a lion and an ox at the foot of the stair, and an eagle and
a man at the head. The man and the ox were on the inner side of the
stair. They were only heads, but the lion had a mane flowing down over
the newel at the bottom, and the eagle was a whole eagle with folded
wings and great horny talons on the left-hand side at the top. At
intervals there were portraits let into the panelling, some on the inner
side of the stairway, and some in the hall below. In a half light there
was an effect of people waiting in the shadows. When he was a little boy
it had frightened him.

In his dream he went on up the stairs. So far it was always the same. It
was after he got to the top that it began to be different. Since his
recollection ceased with the dream, he had no means of knowing what the
difference was. He only knew each dream whilst he was dreaming it. When
he was awake all that remained was the three steps up out of the street,
the door, the shadowy hall with the stair going up, and the sense of
coming home.

On this Christmas night, with his body lying crowded in between other
bodies filthier than his own, he himself sprang up the three steps and
came into the hall. He came out of the dark street into warmth and
light. The curtains were drawn over a window on either side of the door
and all the lights were on. A powdered wig emerged from the gloom of one
portrait, the sweep of a faded rose-coloured dress and a child’s white
muslin frock from another. The lion and the ox at the stair foot were
crowned with holly, and over the stair head there hung a great pale
bunch of mistletoe. An extraordinary rush of happiness came over him. It
was so strong that it fairly swept him up the stairs. No time to look at
old dead and gone relations in the shadows, no eyes for anything except
the one who was waiting for him on the top step—between the eagle and
the man—under the mistletoe.




                              Chapter One


Brett Eversley was reading a letter which he had already read quite a
number of times. He liked it so little that one would hardly have
supposed he would desire to read, and read it again, yet that is what he
was doing. The letter had come by the first post. He had opened it with
a smile and been immediately thrown into rather a desperate state of
mind. Since then he had gone over every word, every phrase, in an
attempt to find a different meaning from the one he could not bring
himself to accept. Women said one thing and meant another—it was
proverbial. They liked to be courted, flattered, pursued. They liked to
make a man show his paces—put him through the hoop.

He was a good-looking man, and he had always had money to spend. Women
had run after him, and he had let them run. At forty he had kept his
freedom, his figure, and a decidedly good opinion of Brett Eversley. At
the moment his handsome face was flushed, his dark eyes brooding, his
brows drawn together in a frown. When he looked like that you could see
that in the next ten years the regular features might coarsen, the lower
part of the face become too heavy, and the colour fixed. On the other
hand, grey hair would probably suit him very well and impart an
eighteenth-century air. He really was not at all unlike some portrait of
a full-flavoured Georgian squire.

As he sat at the desk in his private office at Eversleys, he had the
letter spread out before him. However many times he read it, he found
himself unable to accept its evidence. It just wasn’t possible that
Katharine was turning him down. He read what she had written:

    ‘Dear Brett,

    I’m afraid it’s no use, and the best thing I can do is just to
    tell you so and say “Let’s go on being friends.” I said I would
    think it over, and I have. It isn’t any use, really. You’re a
    cousin and a friend, and that’s what we are to each other. I
    can’t change into being anything else. It’s just one of those
    things. Don’t worry about the money—I’m getting a job.

                                                          Yours
                                                        Katharine.’

Not very easy to get anything out of it except a plain downright ‘No.’
He went on trying. It was a mood. Women had moods. They were changeable.
She had withdrawn before, and then been kind again. Kind ... His own
word might have warned him, but he was resolute to find what he wanted.
She was kind, she was fond of him—what more did she want? She couldn’t
just go on refusing one man after another. She had known him all her
life. As far as he could tell there wasn’t anyone she liked better. It
would be a most suitable marriage. It wasn’t as if she was a girl of
twenty. She must be a good eight years older than that. She had had her
fling, and he had had his. You had to settle down some time, and if he
could bring his mind to it, so could she. He really did find it
impossible to believe that her refusal could be final.

He read the letter again.

Katharine Eversley got off the bus at the corner and walked along Ellery
Street until she came to Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar, which was about
halfway down on the right. It had on one side of it a small draper’s,
and on the other a rather depressed-looking cleaner’s establishment with
an ironically fly-blown legend in the window, ‘We can make your old
things new.’

The Bazaar had two windows, one on either side of the entrance. On the
left there were paintboxes, chalks, a hoop, and miscellaneous toys, but
the right-hand window was entirely given up to William Smith’s wooden
animals, the fame of which was beginning to spread to places quite far
removed from Ellery Street and its North London suburb. There were
Wurzel Dogs, Marks I, II, III and IV—the gay, the jaunty, the pathetic,
the rollicking, all with movable heads and tails. They were black,
brown, grey, white, and spotted. They were retrievers, bulldogs, hounds,
terriers, poodles, and dachshunds. They were of a heart-smiting oddity.
Amongst them paraded the Boomalong Bird, with striding feet and swivel
eye, gawky, indomitable, booming along—white, grey, brown, black,
parrot-green, flamingo-red, orange, and blue, with black and yellow
claws and long erratic beaks. Katharine stood looking in at them, as
nearly every stranger did stand there and look in. The people who
frequented Ellery Street had got used to the creatures, but strangers
always stopped to look at them, and very often went in to buy.

Katharine stood there and thought about being tough. Some people were
born tough, some people achieved toughness, and others had it thrust
upon them. It was being thrust on her at this moment, and she didn’t
know what to do with it. She had a sick kind of feeling that she might
just let go and be the world’s completest flop. And yet all she had to
do was to walk into the shop and say she had been told that they were
looking for an assistant, and did they think she would do. Anyone who
had been through the war as an A.T. ought to be able to manage that. And
of course it would have been the easiest thing in the world if only it
didn’t really matter whether she got the job or not. It mattered so much
that her feet were cold and her heart was knocking against her side.

She looked at one of the rollicking Wurzel Dogs, and he looked back at
her with his jovial rolling eye. ‘Get along on with it and don’t be a
fool!’ was undoubtedly what he would have said if William could have
endowed him with actual speech.

Katharine bit her lip very hard indeed and walked into the shop, where
she encountered Miss Cole. William Smith, coming through from the
workshop, saw them standing together. Miss Cole, pale, plump, efficient,
spectacled, in her tight black dress, her ginger-coloured cardigan, and
the tufts of cotton wool which she wore in her ears to keep out the
cold. He saw her as he saw her every day and continually. And then he
saw Katharine, and heard her say, ‘Good-morning. I hear you are needing
someone to help in the shop.’ He heard the words, but just for the
moment they didn’t make any sense, because her voice went through him
like music. Thought stopped and feeling took its place. It didn’t really
matter what she had said. All that mattered was that she should speak
again. He heard Miss Cole say, ‘Well, I don’t know, I’m sure,’ and with
that, thought took over again, and the sense of what Katharine had said
came to him like a delayed echo—‘I hear you are needing someone to help
in the shop.’

He came marching in and added himself to the conference. Introduced by
Miss Cole with a ‘This is Mr. Smith,’ he said, ‘Good-morning,’ and stood
looking at Katharine. Her voice had done things to him. Everything about
her was doing things. She was music, poetry, and the enchantment which
lies just over the edge of thought. She was applying for the post of
assistant at Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar. He was far too much disturbed
himself to be aware that she was dreadfully pale, but it did not escape
Miss Cole, who immediately gave her three bad marks. ‘Delicate. I’m sure
we don’t want people here who are going to faint. That colour on her
cheeks wasn’t ever her own. I was sure of it as soon as ever she came
in. And lipstick too! Whatever would Mr. Tattlecombe say?’

As Mr. Tattlecombe was laid up in hospital after being knocked down by a
car and was not allowed to see anyone except his sister, there was
really no answer to this, and much as Miss Cole might deplore the fact,
William Smith was in charge. At this very moment he was offering the
young woman a chair and saying,

‘Were you asking Miss Cole whether we wanted an assistant?’

Katharine was very glad of the chair. Suppose he was going to say that
they didn’t want anyone, or that she wouldn’t do. If it depended on Miss
Cole, that was what would be said. That upholstered bust had tightened
against her, and the dark beady eyes behind those formidable lenses were
the last word in disapproval. She didn’t sort any of this out, but it
was there. She said,

‘Yes. Do you think I would do?’

Miss Cole was quite sure that she would not, but she restrained herself.
She looked Katharine up and down, from the small plain hat to the neat
plain shoes, took in the fact that her tweed suit was by no means new,
and summed up the result as ‘Come down in the world.’ Lots of people
about like that nowadays—born with silver spoons in their mouths and
had everything their own way, and then some kind of a slide or some kind
of a crash, and out they have to go and get a job—sorry for themselves
because they’ve got to do what other girls have always known they’d have
to do. Miss Cole had gone out at fourteen and worked to get her
experience, but these _ladies_—she gave the word a bitter
emphasis—they expected to walk in and get jobs without any experience
at all. She said sharply,

‘What experience have you had?’

Katharine was frank.

‘None for this sort of thing, I’m afraid, but I could learn. I was in
the A.T.S. during the war.’

‘And since?’

‘I wasn’t demobilised for quite a long time, and then—I took a holiday.
Now I want a job—rather badly.’

‘Money run out,’ thought Miss Cole. ‘That’s the way with her
sort—lipstick and rouge, and not a penny put away.’

William let her talk to Miss Cole, because all he really wanted was to
look at her. She was tall and graceful. She moved like clouds, like
water, like anything lovely and effortless and free. She had brown hair
under a little brown hat. She had brown eyes. Bright water, dark
water—that was what they made you think about. They changed, and
changed again, but they were always beautiful. He watched the colour
flow back under the skin until you couldn’t see the pink stain which had
been there. It just deepened the natural colour, that was all. He liked
the soft colour of her lipstick—not splashed on, but following the
lines of her most lovely mouth. He liked the rather shabby tweed suit
and the little green scarf at her throat. She gave him the feeling of
completeness, of everything being just right. He heard Miss Cole say, ‘I
really don’t know, I’m sure,’ and said in his most direct and simple
manner,

‘What is your name?’

Her colour went again quite suddenly, and then came back in a flood.

‘Katharine Eversley.’

He turned to Miss Cole.

‘It seems to me that Miss Eversley is just what we are wanting.’

‘Really, Mr. Smith——’

He had a sudden and attractive smile. Miss Cole was not impervious to
its charm.

‘You will be dreadfully overworked with Mr. Tattlecombe away. What on
earth should we do if you knocked up?’

‘I have no intention of knocking up.’

William said, ‘Mr. Tattlecombe would never forgive me. You’ve really got
to have some help. So if Miss Eversley——’

It was no good, he meant to have her, Miss Cole could see that. And he
was in charge—she couldn’t do anything about it. The soft, silly fools
men were the minute a pretty face came along—and no notice taken of
those that would make a good home and have everything comfortable! No
good crying over spilt milk—that’s the way they were, and you just had
to put up with them. She suppressed a sniff and said abruptly,

‘What about references?’

Looking back on it afterwards, William always found it so much easier to
recall Katharine than to remember anything else. He had only to open the
least little chink in his mind and she came in and filled it. She gave
two references. Miss Cole talked to her, and she to Miss Cole, while he
stood by. ‘As you have no experience, you will not expect a high salary.
Would thirty-five shillings a week——’ He remembered that because of
the way Katharine’s colour rose as she said, ‘Oh, yes.’ And just at the
end Miss Cole enraged him by saying in her firmest voice, ‘No rouge, and
no lipstick, Miss Eversley—no make-up of any kind. Mr. Tattlecombe is
very strict indeed about that.’

Katharine didn’t blush this time. She smiled.

‘Oh, of course—I don’t mind a bit. It’s just a fashion, isn’t it?’

Then she went away. They were to take up her references, and if they
were satisfactory, she was to start work on Monday morning.

William walked on air.




                              Chapter Two


Abel Tattlecombe sat propped up in bed with a cushion and two pillows at
his back and a grey and white knitted shawl about his shoulders. The
cushion had been brought up by his sister, Mrs. Salt, from the parlour
where it belonged. If it had been anyone but Abel, they might have
whistled for it. Not that Mrs. Salt would have demeaned herself to use
such an expression, but the cushion would have remained on the parlour
sofa. Being Abel, it formed, as you might say, a foundation for her two
largest feather pillows, and a very solid foundation at that.
Constructed of strong canvas, and worked all over in cross-stitch in a
pattern of enormous red roses on a purple ground, it had retained to an
almost aggressive degree its robust colouring and its even robuster
form. Plump, cheerful, and compact, it held the pillows in place and
made a comfortable back for Mr. Tattlecombe.

He looked out of his very blue eyes at his assistant, William Smith, and
said,

‘I’ve been making my will.’

William didn’t quite know what to say. If he didn’t say anything at all,
Mr. Tattlecombe would jump to the conclusion that William thought he was
dying. If he said, ‘Oh, yes,’ or words to that effect, it would amount
to very much the same thing. If he said, ‘Oh, I’m sure there’s no need
to do that,’ he would be going against his principles. Because of course
people ought to make their wills, if they have anyone to provide for and
anything to leave. William hadn’t. He returned Mr. Tattlecombe’s gaze,
thought he had never seen him looking better, and said,

‘Well, I daresay it’s a good thing to get it off your mind.’

Abel shook his head solemnly, not intending any disagreement, but
imparting a shade of philosophic doubt. He was an old man with a fresh
complexion, a thatch of curly grey hair, and those very blue eyes. He
said with a pleasant country accent,

‘That’s as may be, but I’ve done it.’

There didn’t seem to be any more to be said.

Abel heaved a sigh.

‘If the Lord wants me He’ll call me. Such things as the making of wills
or not making them, ’tisn’t in reason they’d make any difference to
Him.’

The solemnity of the tone was embarrassing. William said,

‘No, of course not.’

Mr. Tattlecombe went through another slow motion of shaking his head.

‘I didn’t see it that way, but it’s come to me. There’s not so much time
for thinking in the shop, but lying here with nothing else to do, it
came over me powerful that I’d be called upon to give an account of my
stewardship. It was a nice little business till the war came along, and
I looked forward to leaving it to Ernie, but it wasn’t to be. When I got
the news he’d died in the prison camp I lost heart. What with the
bombing, and everything so scarce and no turnover to speak of, I
couldn’t seem to take any interest. And when the war stopped I couldn’t
seem to get going. It isn’t so easy to start again when everything’s
different and you’re getting on in years. Well, you know how it was,
that day you came along and told me you’d been with Ernie in the
camp—it meant a lot to me to hear how he’d talked about me and about
the shop. And then you brought out those toys of yours and asked me what
I thought of ’em. Do you remember what I said?’

William gave the wide, attractive grin which showed how strong and white
his teeth were.

‘You said, “It isn’t what I think about them, young man, it’s what the
public thinks. Put ’em in the window and see.”’

‘And they were all sold out in half an hour. That’s what the public
thought of them, and that’s what they’ve gone on thinking of ’em,
haven’t they? The Wurzel Dog, and the Boomalong Bird—they was the
first. I tell you, if ever I saw the hand of the Lord I saw it then.
Ernie was gone—the only grandson I ever had—the only bit of my flesh
and blood except Abby. And the business gone downhill to such an extent
that you might say it had got to the bottom. And then there was you, and
there was the Wurzel Dogs and the Boomalong Birds, and the business
getting up and, as you might say, beginning to boom along too. Well, if
it wasn’t the Lord’s hand, what was it?’

William said, ‘We’re doing very nicely, sir.’

Abel nodded.

‘“Out of my stony griefs, Bethel I’ll raise.” I’ve told the Lord how
grateful I am, and now I’m telling you. I made my will yesterday, and
I’ve left the business and what’s in the bank to you. Abby’s provided
for, and she’s agreeable. If Matthew Salt did leave his sister Emily
hung round her neck for good and all, as you may say, he made up for it
as well as he could by providing very comfortably for Abby. He was a
warm man was Matthew, and the chapel missed him very much when he went.
Being a builder and contractor, they got their Ebenezer built for not
much more than cost price. I didn’t always see eye to eye with him—he
was too fond of his own way—but he was a good brother and a good
husband, and he left Abby well provided for. Not that to my mind any
amount of providing would make up for having to live with Emily Salt.’

‘No, sir.’

‘I couldn’t have done it,’ said Abel Tattlecombe. A blue spark gleamed
in his eye. ‘There was some talk of Abby coming to keep house for me
when my poor wife died, but I couldn’t have done it—not if it meant
Emily along with her, and I said so without any beating about the bush.
“The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away,” I said, but He didn’t give
me Emily Salt, and I’m not flying in his face by taking her. Let alone
that she thinks any man is something that oughtn’t to be going around
off the chain, there’s something about the look of her that’d turn me
from my food. I don’t know how Abby’s put up with her all these years,
but she’s done it, and I’m sure it’s a credit to her. She’s a good
woman, and as I started out to say, I’ve told her my intentions, and
she’s agreeable.’

William really did feel quite overwhelmed. Gratitude and embarrassment
made the next few minutes very uncomfortable. He didn’t quite know what
he said, but he finished up with,

‘I hope you’ll live to be a hundred, sir.’

‘That’s for the Lord to say, William. I’ve passed my three score years
and ten.’

‘So did Moses and Abraham. And what about Methuselah and all that lot?
They lived practically for ever, didn’t they?’

‘It’s for the Lord to say,’ said Abel. ‘I thought he’d called me this
time, but seemingly not.’

William had a strong feeling that street accidents could hardly be
attributed to the Lord, but he wouldn’t have ventured to say so.

‘You’ll have to watch your step, you know—especially at night. You had
a very narrow escape.’

Abel moved his head on the pillow.

‘I was struck down.’

Something in the tone, the solemn gaze, made William say,

‘You stepped off the pavement, and you were struck down by a car.’

‘I was struck down,’ said Abel Tattlecombe. ‘I can’t get from it, and I
never shall. The doctor may say what he likes, and Abby can back him up,
but I’m telling you that I was struck down. I come out by the side door
and over to the kerb, just for a breath of air before I went to bed. The
light shone out on the pavement and I could see it was wet, so I just
went over to the kerb, meaning to come back again. A very mild air it
was, but thickish, with a little rain in it. I left the door open behind
me and went as far as the kerb and stood there. There was a car coming
along fast. Just before it came up someone pushed me right between the
shoulders. I was struck down, and the next thing I knew I was in
hospital. That’s six weeks ago, and a week since I’ve been here, and
you’re the first that’s listened to me when I said I was struck down.
“Who’d want to strike you down?” they said. That’s neither here nor
there, and no business of mine, I tell them. There’s all sorts of
wickedness in the world, and no accounting for it. The imagination of
the thoughts of their heart is evil continually, and what hath the
righteous done? Struck down I was.’

With a feeling that it might be a good plan to change the subject,
William said,

‘I sent you word by Mrs. Salt about the new assistant.’

The blue eyes became shrewd.

‘How’s she doing? What’s her name? I forget.’

‘Miss Eversley. She’s doing very well. But I’ve put her on to painting
the animals—gets the right expression in the eyes. I’ve got a new
creature—the Dumble Duck. He’s selling like hot cakes. We can’t turn
them out fast enough, even with four doing nothing else. I really needed
Miss Eversley for the painting. Miss Cole says she can manage in the
shop, but we really want more help there.’

Abel gloomed.

‘I won’t be back for a fortnight, and I’ll have to go easy. Maybe I’ll
not be back then. If you want more help you must get it, but I’ll not
have anyone except a respectable young woman. Nothing but chapel was
what I used to say, but I don’t hold out for that now—not if it’s a
respectable, well conducted young woman, which I hope is what you can
say about this Miss Eversley.’

Katharine Eversley rose before William’s mind. She arose and shone. When
she came into a room she made a light in it. She came into William’s
mind and made a light there. He heard himself saying that she was
respectable and well conducted. It sounded like a piece out of another
book. You didn’t use words like that about Katharine. She had words
which belonged to her—lovely, lovable, beloved. You couldn’t use words
about her like respectable and well conducted. He used them in a kind of
wonder, and felt as though he was painting a bird of paradise drab.

It was actually a relief when Mr. Tattlecombe came back to the will.

‘As I’ve been saying, I’ve done a bit of thinking whilst I’ve been laid
up, and it came to me that if you knew what your prospects were you
might turn your mind to getting settled in life. How old would you be?’

‘Well, William Smith would be twenty-nine. I don’t know about me.’

Mr. Tattlecombe frowned.

‘Now, now,’ he said, ‘that’ll be enough about that. You’re old enough to
be married, and a good thing if you gave your mind to it in a serious
way.’

William looked down at the pattern on the carpet and said, partly to
Abel and partly to himself,

‘It’s a bit difficult when you don’t know who you are. A girl would have
the right to know who she was taking.’

Abel thumped the mattress with his clenched fist.

‘She’d be taking William Smith, and she’d be getting a decent-living
young man with good prospects that’d make her a good husband, and that’s
a thing any young woman may be thankful for!’

William lifted his eyes.

‘Suppose I was engaged—or even married. Have you thought about that,
Mr. Tattlecombe?’

Abel’s colour had risen. He banged again.

‘William Smith wasn’t married, and you’re not married! Don’t you tell me
anybody would forget a thing like that—not unless they wanted to, and
I’d think better of you than that! Now you just listen to me! I’ve
studied over it, and it’s come to me quite plain. If you’re William
Smith by name and by nature, then you’re not the first that went away
from his home young and improved himself and come back a bit up in the
world and feeling as if he didn’t belong. To my mind that’s what’s
happened to you. You’ve no near kith and kin, and the neighbours don’t
recognize you because you’ve changed above a bit, and only natural, and
you don’t remember on account of your memory being gone. To my mind
that’s what’s happened, and no mystery about it. But just for the sake
of argument, let’s take it you’re not William Smith. To my way of
thinking it’s the Lord’s doing. He taketh up one and putteth down
another. If He’s taken you up out of whatever you were and put you down
as William Smith, then He’s got His own purpose in doing it, and not for
you and me to be kicking against the pricks.’

William did not feel able to comment on this. He had a lot of respect
for Mr. Tattlecombe’s theology, but he could not always follow its
reasoning. He remained silent.

Abel pursued his theme.

‘You settle down and commit your way unto the Lord. Suppose it was to
come to you after all this time that you were somebody else—how do you
suppose you’d fit in? Forty-two was when William Smith was missing.
Suppose you were someone else and you’d been missing even longer than
that. There’s a lot of things might be difficult if you come to think it
out. Say you had a bit of money—someone else would have got it. Say
there was a young woman you were sweet on—likely enough she’d be
married to someone else. You can’t come back and find things just the
way they were—it isn’t in nature. If you have a cut on your finger, the
place heals up—it isn’t in nature for it to stay open and aching. Same
way with you. Supposing for the sake of argument that you wasn’t William
Smith—your place wouldn’t be there any more, and you wouldn’t be
wanted. I can see that as clear as ever I saw anything in all my life,
and it’d be a good thing if you could bring yourself to see it too.
William Smith you are, and if it’s the Lord’s will, William Smith you’ll
stay.’

At this point, to William’s relief, the door opened upon Mrs. Salt and a
cup of Benger’s. Abel in petticoats, with the same fresh complexion,
blue eyes, and curly grey hair, she wore substantial black, with a fancy
apron bought at a sale of work, and a gold brooch with a diamond initial
A in a bunch of lace at her throat.

She said, ‘My brother has talked enough. You’d better be going, Mr.
Smith,’ and William rose.

Mr. Tattlecombe was not pleased. If he had been up and dressed he would
have held his own with Abby, but his leg was still in a splint and he
didn’t so much as know where his trousers were. Dignity forbade a futile
protest. He stared at her, but she took no notice. Setting the Benger’s
down, she adjusted the pillows, smoothed a wrinkle from the bedspread,
and left the room, shepherding William.

On the way down someone stood in a doorway on the half-landing. She
stood for a moment, and stepped back without word or sign, shutting the
door. It made no sound, and nor did she. William had a glimpse of her
and no more. He never did have more than a glimpse of her. On the three
occasions when he had been in this house, at some time either coming or
going Emily Salt had peered at him—from a turn in the passage, from
over the banisters, from a dark doorway. He saw now as much as he had
ever seen of her or wanted to see—a tall, awkward shape with a forward
stoop, long arms hanging, a white bony face with deep eye-sockets,
raiment of funereal gloom. He thought Abel amply justified in a
preference for Mrs. Bastable who housekept for him in the rooms over
Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar. She wasn’t the cook that Abigail was, but she
was cheerful and willing, and she had no Emily Salt. Abel was very fond
of his sister and very grateful to her for her ministrations, but he
could not do with Emily, and he was beginning to feel that he would be
glad to get home.

He sipped his Benger’s and relaxed. Like everything that Abby cooked it
was perfect. Mrs. Bastable got lumps in it three times out of four.

On the stairs Mrs. Salt was saying, ‘I hope you didn’t contradict him,
Mr. Smith. It isn’t good for him to get excited. You had better let
three or four days go by before you come again.’ When they reached the
hall she hesitated for a moment and then opened the parlour door.

‘I should like a word with you before you go.’

William wondered what the word was going to be. He followed her into a
room furnished in the Victorian manner with a bright carpet, plush
curtains, a handsome solid couch and chairs, a fixture once devoted to
gas but now converted to electricity in the middle of the ceiling, and a
great variety of enlarged photographs, photogravures and china ornaments
which combined uselessness and ugliness to a remarkable degree. The
whole scene was reflected in a large gold-framed mirror over the
mantelpiece. All the furniture had been inherited from Matthew Salt’s
parents and dated back to the time of their marriage, but Abigail Salt
added regularly to the ornaments whenever she took a holiday or attended
a bazaar.

She shut the door behind them, fixed her eyes on William, and said,

‘Has my brother been talking to you about his will?’

William did wish that everyone would stop talking about wills. He
couldn’t say so of course, but it was the only thing he wanted to say.
If he hadn’t had the rather thick, pale skin which never changes colour
he might have blushed. He felt just as uncomfortable as if he had. He
said,

‘Well, as a matter of fact he did talk about it.’

Mrs. Salt’s colour deepened. Her gaze was very direct.

‘Then I hope you’ll make him all the return you can. He’s taken a
wonderful fancy to you, and I hope you’ll feel you’ve got a duty to
return. He’s got a right to do what he wants with his own, and he’s had
no objections from me, but I feel obliged to say that in my opinion you
will owe him a duty.’

William really had no idea what all this was about.

He said, ‘I’ll do all I can,’ and she said, ‘Oh, well—’ and turned back
to the door. She had discharged her conscience and the interview was
over. Without a word and without looking back she went along the narrow
passage to the front door and opened it.

There was quite a thick drizzle outside. The wet air drew into the house
with a smell of soot in it. The light from the hall shone out, showing
two shallow steps down into the street. William turned on the top step
with his hat in his hand and the light shining on his thick fair hair.
He said, ‘Good night, Mrs. Salt, and thank you for letting me come.’ And
Abby Salt said, ‘Good night, Mr. Smith,’ and shut the door.

William put on his hat and stepped down into the street.




                             Chapter Three


Detective Sergeant Frank Abbott was reflecting on the general
unsatisfactoriness of crime. Not only did it flout morality and break
the law, but it haled deserving detective sergeants of the Metropolitan
Police Force out to remote suburbs in weather wet enough to drown a
fish. His errand had nothing whatever to do with the case of William
Smith, so there is no more to be said about it than that it had got him
just nowhere at all. The weather, on the other hand, had improved. The
rain no longer came down in sheets. There was much less of it, and what
there was no longer descended, it remained in the air and thickened it.
It remained on the skin, the eyelashes, the hair, and with every breath
it rushed into the lungs. Visibility was particularly poor.

Making for the tube station, which could now be no more than a few
hundred yards away, Frank was aware of a fellow pedestrian. The first
thing he noticed was the light from an open door. A man in a waterproof
stood black against it. The light dazzled on hair that was either fair
or grey. Then he put on a hat and came down into the street, and the
door was shut. The immediate effect was that the man had disappeared as
if by the agency of one of those cloaks of darkness which used to figure
in all the best fairy tales. Then little by little he emerged again,
first as a shadow, and then, as they approached a lamp-post, in his
original form as a man in a waterproof.

Frank was in process of registering this, when he became aware that
there were two men, not walking together but one behind the other. The
other man might have been there all along, or he might have slipped out
of a cut between two houses, or, like the first man, he might have come
out of a house. Frank Abbott wasn’t consciously debating the point, but
you are not much use as a detective unless you have a noticing habit of
mind. The things noticed may never be thought of again, but if needed
they will be there.

From the moment of the second man’s appearance there was the briefest
possible lapse of time before the thing happened. He appeared, he closed
on the man in the waterproof, and hit him over the head. The first man
dropped. The second man stooped over him, and then at the sound of Frank
Abbott’s running footsteps straightened up and dashed away across the
street.

After a pursuit which almost immediately demonstrated its own futility
Frank came back to the body on the pavement. To his relief it was
beginning to stir. Then, as he too stooped, it reared up and hit out.
All quite natural, of course, but a little damping to a good Samaritan.
The blow had very little aim. Frank dodged it, stepped back, and said,

‘Hold up! The chap who hit you has gone off into the blue—I’ve just
come back from chasing him. How are you—all right? Here, come along
under the lamp and let’s see.’

Whether it was the voice sometimes unkindly described as Oxford, the
intonation which undoubtedly bore the brand of culture, or the manner
with its touch of assurance, William Smith put down his hands and
advanced into the light of the street-lamp. It shone down upon an
uncovered head of very thick fair hair. Frank, retrieving a hat which
had rolled into the gutter, presented it. But the young man did not
immediately put it on. He stood there, rubbing his head and blinking a
little, as if the light had come too quick on the heels of his
black-out. The blinking eyelids were furnished with thick sandy lashes,
the eyes behind them were of an indeterminate bluish-grey, the rest of
the features to match—rather broad and without much modelling, wide
mouth, rather thick colourless skin. Frank, who touched six foot, gave
him a couple of inches less. The shoulders under the raincoat were wide
and the chest deep. He thought the man who had hit him wouldn’t have
stood much chance if he hadn’t come up behind.

All this at the first glance. And then, hard on that, a flash of
recognition.

‘Hullo! Haven’t we met somewhere?’

William blinked again. His hand went up to his head and felt it
gingerly. He said,

‘I don’t know—’

‘My name’s Abbott—Frank Abbott—Detective Sergeant Frank Abbott. Does
that strike a chord?’

‘I’m afraid it doesn’t.’

He took a step sideways, shut his eyes, and caught at the lamp-post. By
the time Frank reached him he was straightening up again. He grinned
suddenly and said,

‘I’m all right. I think I’ll sit down on a doorstep.’

The grin had something very engaging about it. Frank slid an arm around
him.

‘We can do better than a doorstep. There’s a police station just around
the corner. If I give you a hand, can you get as far as that?’

There was another grin.

They set out, and after one or two halts arrived. William sank into a
chair and closed his eyes. He was aware of people talking, but he wasn’t
interested. It would have been agreeable if someone could have unscrewed
his head and put it away in a nice dark cupboard. For the moment it was
of very little use to him, and he felt as if he would do better without
it.

Somebody brought him a cup of hot tea. He felt a good deal better after
he had drunk it. They wanted to know his name and address.

‘William Smith, Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar, Ellery Street, N.W.’

‘Do you live there?’

‘Over the shop. Mr. Tattlecombe is away ill and I’m in charge. He’s at
his sister’s—Mrs. Salt, 176 Selby Street, just round the corner. I’ve
been out seeing him.’

The Police Inspector loomed. He was a large man. He had a large voice.
He said,

‘Have you any idea who it was that hit you?’

‘None whatever.’

‘Can you think of anyone who would be likely to hit you?’

‘Not a soul.’

‘You say you were visiting your employer. Had you money on you—cash for
wages—anything like that?’

‘Not a bean.’

William shut his eyes again. They talked. The Inspector’s voice reminded
him of a troop-carrying plane.

Then Frank Abbott was saying,

‘What do you feel like about getting home? Is there anyone there to look
after you?’

‘Oh, yes, there’s Mrs. Bastable—Mr. Tattlecombe’s housekeeper.’

‘Well, if you feel like it, they’ll ring up for a taxi and I’ll see you
home.’

William blinked and said, ‘I’m quite all right.’ Then he grinned that
rather boyish grin. ‘It’s frightfully good of you, but you needn’t
bother—the head is very thick.’

Presently he found himself in the taxi with Frank, and quite suddenly he
wanted to talk, because it came to him that this was a Scotland Yard
detective, and that he had said something about having seen him before.
He passed from thought to speech without knowing quite how or when.

‘You did, didn’t you?’

‘I did what?’

‘Say you’d seen me before.’

‘Yes, I did. And I have.’

‘I wish you’d tell me how—and when—and where.’

‘Well, I don’t know—it was a good long time ago.’

‘How long?’

‘Oh, quite a long time. Pre-war, I should say.’

William’s hand came out and gripped his arm.

‘I say—are you sure about that?’

‘No—I just think so.’

The grip on his arm continued. William said in an urgent voice,

‘Do you remember where it was?’

‘Oh, town. The Luxe, I think—yes, definitely the Luxe. Yes, that was
it—a fairly big do at the Luxe. You danced with a girl in a gold dress,
very easy on the eye.’

‘What was her name?’

‘I don’t know—I don’t think I ever did know. She appeared to be booked
about twenty deep.’

‘Abbott—do you remember my name?’

‘My dear chap—’

William Smith took his hand away and put it to his head.

‘Because, you see, I don’t.’

Frank said, ‘Steady on! You gave your name just now—William Smith.’

‘Yes, that’s what I came out of the war with. What I want to know is how
I went in. I don’t remember anything before ’42—not anything at all. I
don’t know who I am or where I came from. In the middle of ’42 I found
myself in a Prisoners of War camp with an identity disc which said I was
William Smith, and that’s all I know about it. So if you can remember my
name—’

Frank Abbott said, ‘Bill—’ and stuck.

‘Bill what?’

‘I don’t know. I’m sure about the Bill, because it came into my head as
soon as I saw you under the street-lamp before you spoke or anything.’

William began to nod, and then stopped because it hurt.

‘Bill feels all right, and William feels all right, but Smith doesn’t.
Anyhow I’m not the William Smith whose identity disc I came round with.
I finished up in a concentration camp, and after I got released, and got
home, and got out of hospital I went to look up William Smith’s next of
kin—said to be a sister, living in Stepney. She’d been bombed out and
no one knew where she’d gone. But there were neighbours, and they all
said I wasn’t William Smith. For one thing they were real
bred-in-the-bone Cockneys, and they despised my accent. They were
awfully nice people and too polite to say so, but one of the boys gave
it away. He said I talked like a B.B.C. announcer. None of them could
tell me where the sister had gone. I didn’t get the feeling that she was
the kind of person who would be missed, and they were all so sure I
wasn’t William Smith that I didn’t really feel I need go on looking for
her. If you could remember anyone who might possibly know who I was—’

There was quite a long pause. The street-lights shone into the taxi and
were gone again—one down, t’other come on. First in a bright glare, and
then in deep shade, William saw his companion come and go. The face
which continually emerged and disappeared again was quite unknown to
him, yet on the other side of the gap which cut him off from the time
when he hadn’t been William Smith they had met and spoken. They must
have known the same people. Perhaps it was the blow on his head which
made him feel giddy when he thought about this. It was a little like
Robinson Crusoe finding the footprint on the desert island. He looked at
Frank, and thought he was the sort of chap you would remember if you
remembered anything. High-toned and classy—oh, definitely. Fair hair
slicked back till you could pretty well see your face in it—he
remembered that at the station. Long nose in a long, pale face. Very
good tailor—

Curiously enough, it was at this point that memory stirred, if faintly.
Somewhere in William’s mind was the consciousness that he hadn’t always
worn the sort of clothes he was wearing now. They were good durable
reach-me-downs, but—memory looked vaguely back to Savile Row.

Frank Abbott said, ‘I’m sorry, but I don’t seem to get any farther than
Bill.’




                              Chapter Four


William got up next day with a good-sized lump on his head, but not
otherwise any the worse. He wouldn’t have told Mrs. Bastable anything
about it, only unfortunately she happened to be looking out of her
bedroom window and not only saw him come home in a taxi, but having
immediately thrown up the sash, she heard Detective Sergeant Abbott ask
him if he was sure he would be all right now. After which she met
William on the stairs in a condition of palpitant curiosity. If the
injurious conjecture that he had been brought home drunk really did
present itself, it was immediately dispelled. She was all concern, she
fluttered, she proffered a variety of nostrums, and she certainly didn’t
intend to go to bed, or to allow him to go to bed, until she had been
told all about it. She punctuated the narrative with little cries of
‘Fancy that!’ and ‘Oh, good gracious me!’

When he had finished she was all of a twitter.

‘Well, there now—what an escape! First Mr. Tattlecombe, and
then—whatever should we have done if you’d been taken?’

‘Well, I wasn’t.’

Mrs. Bastable heaved a sigh.

‘You might have been. It’s given me the goose flesh all over. Only fancy
if that had been the police come to break the news, and Mr. Tattlecombe
still in his splint! Oh, my gracious me—whatever would have happened?’

She was a little bit of a thing with a light untidy fluff of hair and a
nose which went pink in moments of emotion. It was pink now and it
quivered. She dabbed aimlessly at her hair and three of the remaining
pins fell out. William stooped to pick them up, and wished he hadn’t. He
said he thought he would go to bed, and went.

He fell asleep almost as soon as his head touched the pillow and passed
into his dream. He had been having it less and less—only twice last
year, and this year once, a long time back in the summer. He had it now.
But there was something different about it—something troubled and
disturbed, like a reflection in troubled water. There were the three
steps leading up to the door, but the door wouldn’t open. He pushed, and
felt it held against him. But not by bolt, or bar, or lock. There was
someone pushing against him on the other side of the door. Then the
dream changed. Someone laughed, and he thought it was Emily Salt. He had
never heard her laugh, but he thought it was Emily. He saw her peep at
him round a door—not the door of his dream, but one of the doors in
Abby Salt’s house. And Abby Salt said, ‘Poor Emily—she doesn’t like
men,’ and William woke up and turned over and went to sleep again and
dreamed about being on a desert island with packs of Wurzel Dogs, and
flocks of Boomalong Birds, and a pond full of Dumble Ducks. It was an
agreeable dream, and he woke in the morning feeling quite all right.

When he had dealt with the post and given everyone time to get going, he
went through to the workshop which they had contrived out of what had
been a parlour and a rather ramshackle conservatory beyond it. Of course
all the glass had been broken during the war, but they had got it mended
now, and it was a fine light place, if chilly in winter. Two oil-stoves
contended with the cold, one in the parlour, and the other in the
conservatory. When Mrs. Bastable looked after them they had diffused a
strong smell of paraffin without perceptibly raising the temperature.
William took them over because he noticed that Katharine’s hands were
blue, and it occurred to him that the oily smell was definitely
inappropriate. Roses, or lavender, but quite definitely not kerosene
oil. He wrested the stoves from Mrs. Bastable, who took umbrage and had
to be pacified, but there was no more smell and the temperature went up
considerably.

When William came through from the shop an elderly man and a boy were
preparing carcases of dogs and birds at the conservatory end. Katharine
Eversley was sitting at a large kitchen table in the parlour putting the
finishing touches to a rainbow-coloured Boomalong Bird with an open
scarlet beak.

William came and stood beside her.

‘That’s a good one.’

‘Yes—he screams, doesn’t he? I’ve just finished with him, and then I’ll
start undercoating the ducks. They’re going to be pretty good when we
get on to those metallic paints. There—he’s done!’ She turned so that
she could look up at him. ‘Are you all right? Miss Cole says someone
tried to rob you last night.’

‘Well, I don’t know what he was trying to do. He hit me over the head
just as I was coming out after seeing Mr. Tattlecombe.’

She said quickly, ‘Did he hurt you?’

‘Oh, just a bump. My hat took the worst of it.’

‘Did you catch him?’

‘No—I was out. A detective from Scotland Yard picked me up and brought
me home in a taxi. Very nice chap.’

‘Then you don’t know who hit you?’

‘No. Abbott said he went off like greased lightning.’

Katharine moved the Boomalong Bird away and picked up a waddling duck.
She opened a tin of paint and began to lay on a flesh-pink undercoating.
William drew a stool up to the other side of the table and started on a
duck of his own. After a moment Katharine said,

‘It’s rather—extraordinary—you and Mr. Tattlecombe both having
accidents—like that.’

William grinned.

‘Mr. Tattlecombe says he was “struck down”. I certainly was.’

‘What does he mean, “struck down”?’ said Katharine.

‘He thinks someone pushed him. He says he came out of the side door.
When he found it was wettish he left it open behind him and went over to
the edge of the kerb. He saw a car coming, and then he said he was
struck down.’

Katharine looked up, her brush suspended. She wore a faded green overall
which covered her dress. Her skin and her lips were as they had been
made. She was pale. Her eyes had their dark look. William knew all their
looks by now—the dark, like shadows on a pool; the bright, like
peat-water in the sun; the mournful clouding look; and, loveliest and
rarest, something which he couldn’t even describe to himself, a kind of
trembling tenderness, as if the pool were troubled by an angel. Young
men in love have very romantic thoughts.

Katharine Eversley looked at William Smith and said,

‘It was at night?’

‘Oh, yes.’

‘He came out in the dark and the door was open behind him? Would there
have been a light in the passage?’

‘Yes, that’s how he knew it was wet—the light shone out on the
pavement.’

She went back to her painting.

‘And you came out in the dark last night?’

‘Yes.’

‘With the door open from a lighted passage?’

William looked surprised.

‘Yes. Why?’

‘I was wondering. It seems odd——’

‘What were you wondering?’

She didn’t answer that. She said,

‘What is Mr. Tattlecombe like?’

‘Like?’

She said, ‘How tall is he?’

‘About the same as me—about five-foot-ten.’

‘Is he about the same build too?’

‘Just about.’

He was contemplating her steadily now. She went on drawing her brush
across the wood in long, even strokes.

‘What sort of hair has he got?’

William said soberly, ‘Very thick and grey. Why?’

‘I was wondering about your both being struck—that was his word, wasn’t
it?’

‘Struck down.’

‘Well, I was wondering—whether there was anyone—who had a grudge
against him—or anything like that. If you are about the same height and
all, and you were coming out of his front door—your hair is very
fair—it wouldn’t look so different from grey hair, coming out like that
with the light behind you, would it? The person who pushed Mr.
Tattlecombe before might have been having another try.’

William said cheerfully, ‘Or it might be the other way round. The chap
who took a swipe at Mr. Tattlecombe might have thought it was me.’

Katharine’s brush stopped in the middle of a stroke—stopped, and went
on again.

‘Do you know of anyone who has a grudge against you?’

‘No, I don’t. But there might be someone. Only it would have to be
someone out of my horrid past. Seven years seems rather a long time to
keep up a grudge, doesn’t it?’

Katharine said nothing. She had finished undercoating her duck. She took
another.

William said, ‘I tell you what I think. It was wet when Mr. Tattlecombe
had his accident. I think he slipped on the kerb. When he came round he
was all shaken up, and he thought he’d been pushed. That’s what I
think.’

‘And you?’

‘Just a chance see-what-he’s-got affair. Chap on the prowl and no one
about, and he thinks he’ll try his luck. I might have had a nice fat
wallet.’

‘Did he take anything?’

‘No—because Abbott came up.’ There was a short pause. Then he said,
‘There was one odd thing—at least I think it’s odd, because I can’t
account for it. You know I was knocked right out, and then I came round
and Abbott was there, and my hat had come off and he picked it up——’

‘Yes.’

‘There was a street lamp not so far ahead, and Abbott had a torch. What
I mean to say is, it was pretty murky, but I saw something on the
pavement and I picked it up.’

‘What was it?’

‘I thought it was a piece of paper or a bill. As a matter of fact it was
a letter. I thought it must have fallen out of my pocket, so I just
slipped it back there—I’d got my raincoat on. But this morning when I
had a look at it, it was a note from Mrs. Salt to Mr. Tattlecombe—and
that’s what I thought was odd.’

Katharine’s brush was arrested.

‘Why should Mrs. Salt write him notes when he’s lying in bed in her
house? Or am I being stupid?’

William laughed.

‘That’s just what I thought. And then I saw there was a date, and it was
quite an old letter. He must have got it just before he had his
accident. I remember his saying Mrs. Salt had written to ask him to go
up there on the Sunday. What beats me is, how did that note get into my
pocket? Because it must have been in my pocket, or it couldn’t have
fallen on to the pavement, and I couldn’t have picked it up. Not that it
matters of course. There—I’ve finished my duck!’ He reached for another
and dipped his brush.

After a little silence Katharine said,

‘You know, this is a most dreadfully uneconomic way of turning out these
creatures. If they were factory-made, you’d clear about double the
profit.’

‘Yes, I know. Just before his accident I had got Mr. Tattlecombe to the
point of agreeing to something of the sort. He didn’t like it, but I’d
got him to the point of saying I could make enquiries. We’re protected
by our patents, so there was no reason why we shouldn’t go ahead. As I
said to him, if the children round about here like the animals, the
children in other places probably will too, and if they like them, why
shouldn’t they have them?’

She looked up and smiled.

‘Yes—why shouldn’t they? What did you do about it?’

‘I wrote to Eversleys——’ He checked on the name. ‘That’s funny, isn’t
it? I never thought of it before. I don’t know why I didn’t, because
when you said your name it did just seem to me——’ he drew his thick
fair brows together in a frown and gazed at her in a concentrated sort
of way—‘it did just seem to me as if—well, as if I’d heard it before.’

‘Did it?’

She spoke so softly that he could hardly hear the words.

‘Yes, it did. I didn’t connect it with Eversleys, but of course that’s
what it was. It sounds awfully stupid, but the fact is, I was—well, I
was thinking too much about you. I mean, I was thinking you were just
exactly what we wanted, and Miss Cole was being a bit difficult, so I
hadn’t much attention left over for things like names. But it ought to
have struck me afterwards, only somehow it didn’t. People’s surnames
don’t seem to belong to them the way their other names do.’

Katharine’s heart beat as hard as if she were seventeen and her first
proposal looming. She thought, ‘He’s trying to tell me that he thinks of
me as Katharine. Oh, my darling, how sweet, and how ridiculous!’ She
said,

‘I know just what you mean. I don’t think of my friends by their names
at all.’

He considered that.

‘Don’t you? How do you think of them?’

‘I don’t think I can describe it. Not names—or faces—it’s just
something that is them and not anyone else.’

‘Yes—I know what you mean.’

‘You were going to tell me about Eversleys. What happened?’

He was still frowning.

‘I suppose there’s no connection?’

She gave him her lovely smile.

‘Well, that’s just what there is—a connection.’

‘But they’re in a pretty big way.’

‘I’m a poor relation. Go on and tell me what happened. You wrote to
them. What did they say?’

‘They asked me to come and see them.’

Katharine bent over her duck.

‘Did you go?’

‘Yes, I went, but it wasn’t any good.’

She half looked up, checked herself, and looked down again.

‘Tell me what happened.’

‘There’s nothing to tell. I went in. I didn’t see either of the
partners. I came out again, and bumped into an old boy in the street.’

She bent lower.

‘What sort of an old boy?’

‘Looked like a clerk—highly respectable. First I thought he was tight,
and then I thought he was ill. He asked me who I was, and I told him.
Seemed a bit odd, the whole thing, but he said he was all right and went
off.’

‘But you saw someone inside, in the office?’

‘Yes—Mr. Eversley’s secretary.’

‘What was she like?’

He laughed.

‘She?’

‘Wasn’t it a woman? Secretaries are as a rule.’

‘Yes—rather a good-looking one. Not young, but quite a looker. I was
trying to catch you out. I wanted to see if you knew her.’

‘I know you were. I do. Her name is Miss Jones. She’s Cyril Eversley’s
secretary—he’s the senior partner. She’s been there a long
time—something like fifteen years. Very efficient, and as you say,
quite a looker.’ She lifted her eyes to his face. ‘What happened when
you saw her?’

‘Well, just nothing. She’d given me rather a late appointment, just on
six o’clock. Neither of the partners was there, and the office was
packing up. She didn’t seem inclined to give me very much time. I showed
her some of the creatures and asked if the firm would be interested in
manufacturing them under our patents, but she hardly looked at them.’

‘What did she look at?’ said Katharine.

‘Well—me. My word she’s got a gimlet eye! I got the feeling I was a
base-born black beetle all right. She said she didn’t think the things
were in their line, but she’d tell Mr. Eversley about them and let me
know. A couple of days later I got a line to say that Mr. Eversley
wasn’t interested.’

Katharine went back to her duck.

‘When was all this?’

‘Oh, just before Mr. Tattlecombe went into hospital.’

‘Then—who actually wrote the original letter—you, or Mr. Tattlecombe?’

‘Oh, I did.’

‘Wrote it, or typed it?’

She heard him laugh.

‘You’ve never seen my writing, or you wouldn’t ask! I didn’t actually
want them to turn us down, you know. It was in my very best typing,
beautiful and legible and clear.’

‘And the signature?’

‘Oh, a quite recognizable William Smith.’

Katharine said slowly and carefully,

‘That sounds like a frightful cross-examination. But I thought as I do
know him, I could perhaps find out whether Cyril Eversley ever saw your
letter. He mightn’t have, you know—he does leave quite a lot to Miss
Jones. And I thought it would be easier if I knew what sort of letter it
was, and whether it was signed by you or by Mr. Tattlecombe.’ She looked
up to find him frowning and her colour rose. ‘Oh, I’m sorry!’

The frown changed to an expression of dismay.

‘No—_no_—why do you say that? It’s most awfully good of you. I was
just thinking——’

‘What?’

William registered candid surprise.

‘I don’t know. I got a sort of a come-over. I don’t even know what it
was about. You said you’d find out if Eversley had ever had my letter,
and I went into a sort of spin. The result of being cracked over the
head, I expect—nothing to do with what you were saying. But I don’t
think I’ll do anything more until Mr. Tattlecombe is about again. I
don’t think he’d like it if he thought I was doing things while he was
out of the way. You don’t feel as if I was being ungrateful, do you?
Because I shouldn’t like you to think anything like that.’

Katharine wasn’t thinking anything like that. She was thinking rather
breathlessly that she had been on the edge of walking enthusiastically
over a precipice, and she felt a good deal of gratitude to William’s
scruples about Mr. Tattlecombe. Suppose he hadn’t had them. Suppose she
had been confronted with the choice of going back on what she had
offered or appearing in Cyril’s office as the champion of William Smith.
Or, worse than Cyril, Brett. She didn’t wish Mr. Tattlecombe’s
sufferings to be in any way prolonged, but she had a feeling that it
would be a pity if he were to come back to work too soon. She just
wasn’t ready to take William Smith by the hand and lead him into the
family circle—yet.




                              Chapter Five


Cyril Eversley put out a hand and touched the bell on his office table.
Like everything else about him the hand was long and thin. If his cousin
Brett looked like a Georgian squire, he himself had rather the air of a
medieval scholar—a flowing robe and a skull-cap would have been much
more appropriate than a modern suit. He was seven years older than Brett
and the senior partner. No one would have guessed that they were
related. Where Brett was dark and florid, Cyril had the thinning fair
hair, the pallor, and slight stoop of a delicate man who leads a
sedentary life. He might have been an artist, a scholar, a dilettante.
He was, as a matter of fact, a little of all three. The rather charming
water-colour drawing of his daughter Sylvia which faced him across the
room was his own work, he could still read Greek for pleasure, and he
was a collector of eighteenth-century miniatures and snuffboxes.

Almost before he had drawn his hand back from the bell the door opened
and Miss Jones came in.

‘Yes, Mr. Eversley?’

He looked up with his slight habitual frown and said,

‘Come in and shut the door.’

With the click of the latch her manner changed.

That ‘Yes, Mr. Eversley?’ had been any secretary to any employer—voice,
manner, and look all just right—the efficient, trusted employee
answering a summons. But as soon as the door was shut she became someone
else. It was as if she came in and threw off some drab uniform coat, to
display the bright dress which had been hidden under it. She seemed a
different woman as she came over to stand by the table and say, ‘What is
it?’ William’s description of her may serve—‘Not young, but a looker.’
A moment ago she might easily have been forty; the change in look and
manner took ten years away. Actually she was thirty-seven. There was
bright natural colour in the oval face and well cut lips, good lashes to
shade the hazel eyes. The tall, upright figure was pleasantly curved,
the plain dark dress very well cut. There was some grace of movement,
and a noticeable effect of vitality. When it came to the hands and feet,
nature had turned suddenly stingy. Neither were well shaped, but she
wore good shoes, and did all she could to the hands which a secretary
cannot hope to keep out of sight. She groomed them assiduously and used
a very discreet nail-polish.

To her, ‘What is it?’ Cyril Eversley replied with a shade of petulance,

‘Why must it be anything?’

She smiled a little.

‘I don’t know, but it is.’

He threw himself back in his chair.

‘For God’s sake sit down! I’m worried to death.’

‘Poor Cyril! As I said before, what is it?’

She was seating herself. If anyone came in, she had writing-pad and
pencil before her—a discussion was in progress, presently a decision
would be taken and a letter dictated. It had all been going on for so
long that every move had become instinctive.

Cyril picked up a letter from his blotting-pad—thick paper covered with
a strong, square writing rather reminiscent of cuneiform.

‘It’s Katharine’s trust,’ he said. ‘This is from Admiral Holden, who is
the third trustee.’

‘Well?’

‘It isn’t well at all. He was supposed to be dying, and he hasn’t died.
He has recovered, and he seems to have heard from Katharine. I don’t
know what she said to him, but this is what he writes:

    “Dear Eversley,

    I had a letter from Katharine a couple of months ago. She
    mentioned that she was giving up her flat and looking for
    something smaller. She also mentioned that she was going to take
    a job. I could not understand why this should be necessary, but
    I was not at the time fully recovered, so I thought that I would
    wait until I could go into the matter with you in person.
    Katharine has not written again, and I have not her present
    address. I shall be in town next week and should like to call
    upon you on Wednesday morning or Thursday afternoon, whichever
    would be the more convenient to yourself. I could then go into
    Katharine’s affairs with you and your cousin Brett. After nearly
    two years of incapacity I should be glad of the opportunity of
    bringing my trusteeship up to date.

                                               Yours sincerely,
                                                    J. G. Holden.”’

Miss Jones repeated her ‘Well?’

Eversley opened his hand and let the letter fall.

‘What are we going to do?’ he said.

‘The money isn’t there?’

‘You know it isn’t there. You know we had to borrow it in ’45. If things
had looked up, we could have paid it back. We had to borrow it—you know
that as well as I do. It was either that or a smash, and we’ve always
kept up the income payments—until the other day. I told Brett it was
folly to cut them, but he’s so extravagant—he won’t cut out anything
himself. If we’d gone on paying Katharine her income, there wouldn’t
have been any trouble. It’s this cutting her down that is bringing
Holden into it. He’s never done anything before except sign what was put
in front of him. Of course all through the war he was serving, and then
he had that motor smash and nobody thought he’d ever get up off his bed
again—and now he says he’s recovered and wants to go into Katharine’s
affairs. What are we going to do?’

He had the helpless look of a child who has tumbled down and waits for
someone to pick him up. She thought, ‘He’s a drifter—he’s drifted into
this. When firms drift they smash. They’ve been drifting for years. You
can drift on to the rocks, but you don’t drift off them. But even if
there was a smash, there would be pickings. In any case I’m too far
in——’ She said,

‘You say he’s always signed everything you put in front of him.’

‘He won’t now. He’ll want to go into it all. We’ve got to show him
figures—he’s got to be convinced. Can’t you put up something that will
make him think it’s all right?’

She raised her eyebrows.

‘My dear Cyril, you’re not asking me to fudge the books!’

She saw him wince at the word. Cyril all over. You had to wrap things up
for him—make them sound pretty. A plain word for a plain thing and he
panicked.

‘Mavis—for heaven’s sake!’

‘Well, that’s what you’re asking me to do, isn’t it?’

He threw out that long, thin hand.

‘Don’t you see I’m only asking for time to get the money paid back? Now
Sylvia is married, I can sell Evendon and move into something smaller.
Brett must stop taking so much out of the firm—I’ve always told him it
wouldn’t stand it. We must both cut down and get the money paid back.
And Katharine must have her income. It was the merest folly to cut it
down. But we must have time—don’t you see, we must have time.’

She sat there looking at him. He had said, ‘Don’t you see?’ She saw very
well. More than he knew—more than he guessed—more than he would have
any courage for. She weighed the chances, the probabilities, putting
this down on the credit, this on the debit side.

The silence was more than he could bear. He rushed in on it with nervous
speech.

‘Brett must marry her. That’s the solution of course. I don’t know why
he hasn’t fixed it up before it came to this. A man has got to settle
down some time, and I don’t know what more he wants. He’s always admired
her—who doesn’t? She’s a charming creature. If he doesn’t take care,
someone will get in before him. And if it came to a marriage settlement,
and lawyers imported into it—well, as I said to him not long ago, it
would be just flat ruin.’

‘What did he say?’

‘He said he had asked her and she had refused him.’

Miss Jones considered that carefully. She couldn’t decide whether she
wanted Brett Eversley to marry Katharine. She disliked Katharine very
much—it might serve her right. On the other hand, once you started
anything you couldn’t always tell where it was going to stop. Perhaps
better to play for time.

Cyril couldn’t get the word off his tongue.

‘Time—that’s what we want—time. If we can satisfy Holden and get time
to pay the money back we’ll be all right. Can’t you think of something
we can do?’

She said, ‘I could.’

‘Mavis!’

‘What do I get out of it?’

The words came across the table like a pistol-shot. He said her name
again in a shocked tone, and she smiled.

‘Look here, Cyril, if I do this I’m risking a lot. It’s got to be worth
my while. I’ll be risking a lot, and you know it. Well, I’m not doing it
for nothing, and that’s flat.’ The hazel eyes had the hard, dominant
look which had impressed William Smith.

Cyril Eversley said, ‘What do you want?’ But he knew before she spoke.

Her smile widened.

‘You’ve been a widower for five years—Sylvia is married. Everybody
expects you to marry again.’

He said, ‘It would make too much talk.’

‘My dear Cyril, men marry their secretaries every day. Who cares about
talk?’

He looked down at his own long, nervous fingers. At some moment, he
didn’t know when, they had picked up a short length of red pencil. He
saw them twitch on it, rolling it to and fro.

‘I should be lost without you here.’

‘You needn’t let that stand in your way. I like to have a finger in the
pie. I would stay on at any rate until we’d got everything straight.’

There was more to put straight than he knew about—more than she ever
intended him to know. It could be done if she brought this off. The
Admiral was a godsend. She pressed her advantage.

‘Look here, Cyril, it’s a pretty good bargain for you—honestly. Don’t
you ever get tired of your own company down at Evendon? I should have
thought you’d be bored stiff now that you haven’t got Sylvia dashing in
and out with her crowd.’

He looked up with a faint gleam of humour.

‘There used to be rather too much dashing in and out, you know.’

‘I daresay, but there’s no sense in going to the opposite extreme. And
you want someone to run the house. I don’t mind betting you’re being
robbed right and left.’

Inwardly he shrank. Mavis had a coarse streak in her. She attracted him,
as vital, domineering women do attract his type of man. Sometimes the
attraction was strong enough to blind him to everything else. When it
wasn’t she could jar him badly. No man likes to be urged to marry, but
he had to reckon with long habit and the pressure of her will on his.

She said with half a laugh, ‘You really want a wife a great deal more
than I want a husband. I think I’m a bit of a fool to take it on. I
shouldn’t if I wasn’t fond of you, but there it is.’

He said, ‘I know.’ And then, ‘Why can’t we just go on as we are? As you
say, I haven’t got so much to offer you now.’

She laughed outright.

‘Perhaps not, but I happen to want it. I said it was a bargain, and I
said you’d be getting the best of it, and so you will. But I shouldn’t
be going into it if I wasn’t getting something too. You’ll get a
good-looking, presentable wife and an efficient mistress for your house,
and I’ll keep on at the office until we’ve straightened everything out
and I’ve trained somebody else. Comfort, efficiency, and
security—that’s your share of the bargain. I give up my independence,
and I get a double job, a lot of hard work, and—security. If that
satisfies me, it’s just your luck. I’m putting all my cards on the
table.’

She had a moment’s thought of how surprised he would be if she really
did so—surprised, and shocked. That was one of the amusing things about
Cyril—the moment you got down to facts they shocked him.

He was staring at his hand again, and at the red pencil. His fingers had
tightened on it. He did not speak. She could feel him resisting—not
actively, but in a withdrawn kind of way, as if he had gone into another
room and locked the door. If they had been anywhere else, she would have
let her temper go. Nothing ever enraged her so much, and he knew it. But
he knew that she couldn’t make a scene in the office. He was afraid of
her scenes, but she couldn’t make one here. Perhaps one of the things
which nerved him to resist her was the knowledge that once they were
married she would be perfectly free to make him a scene whenever she
chose.

Mavis Jones put out an ugly manicured hand and picked up Admiral
Holden’s letter. She might have been picking up a weapon. She picked it
up, glanced at it, and put it down again.

‘Wednesday or Thursday next week,’ she said crisply. ‘It doesn’t give us
too much time.’

The thrust went keenly home. He started, dropped the pencil, and said
with panic in his voice,

‘What can you do?’

It was surrender, and they both knew it. The colour was warm in her face
as she leaned across the table and laid her hand on his.

‘Don’t worry—I’ll pull it off. The less you know, the better. I’ll go
through all the papers and cook something up.’ She laughed
good-humouredly. ‘There’s almost nothing you can’t do with
figures—especially when you’re good at them and the other person
isn’t.’

She had better not have said that—he wasn’t any too good at them
himself—he might start thinking.

She got up and came round the table and put an arm about his neck.

‘Aren’t you going to kiss me?’

He turned a harried face.

‘Mavis!’

‘My poor old man! You needn’t worry like that—it’ll be all right on the
night.’

‘Are you sure?’

He had been leaning back against her. He turned now as if for shelter
and pressed his face into her neck. She held him like that and said,

‘Quite sure.’ And then, ‘We’d better give notice at the register office
today. There has to be a clear day’s notice. We can get married on
Saturday and go away for the weekend. No need to give it out—better let
all this other business fade a bit first. So you don’t have to feel
you’re being rushed.’

‘Need we——’

She bent and kissed him.

‘Darling, I simply can’t do it unless I’m your wife. And he’s coming
next week—that’s where the hurry comes in. It’s a big thing, and I’ll
do it for my husband, but—oh, Cyril, you must see that I couldn’t do it
for anyone else.’

Cyril Eversley saw.




                              Chapter Six


On that Thursday morning, the undercoating having dried on the Dumble
Ducks, they were being decked out in green and bronze metallic paint,
with exciting touches of red and blue, and yellow bills. At the far end
of the conservatory old Mr. Bindle was telling the boy Robert all the
things that boys had never been allowed to do when he was young. From
long habit Robert, whom everyone but Mr. Bindle called Bob, was able to
say ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ at the right places and go solidly on thinking about
the model aeroplane he was making at home in his spare time. He was a
long, rangy boy with a freckled face and competent hands, and, waking or
sleeping, he very seldom thought about anything but aeroplanes. Neither
he nor Mr. Bindle took any interest in Mr. Smith and Miss Eversley who
were painting ducks at the parlour end of the workshop.

William was pleased with his duck. It had a cream breast, brown and
green plumage, enormous yellow feet, and a rolling eye. It waddled, and
its beak gaped. He was pleased with it, but a good deal of his mind was
taken up with something else. Thursday is early-closing day in the
outlying parts of London. He wanted to know what Katharine was going to
do when she put on her hat and left the shop at one o’clock. Suppose she
went to bed at about eleven, that left approximately ten hours in which
things could be done. He wondered what sort of things she was going to
do.

This happened every Thursday morning. It also happened on Saturday
evening when the long, deserted hours of Sunday began to loom up.
Saturday was worse than Thursday, because at the very lowest reckoning
there were about fourteen hours of Sunday during which Katharine would
not only not be with him, but would be walking, talking, and doing
things with other people. Every time a Thursday or a Saturday came round
his feelings on the subject became more acute. Today they were rapidly
approaching the point where he would no longer be able to keep them to
himself. He may never have heard of the poet who declared that he either
fears his fate too much or his deserts are small who dare not put it to
the touch to gain or lose it all, but he certainly would have agreed
with him. The trouble was that he did fear his fate and was most
wholeheartedly convinced of the smallness of his deserts. Yet what he
had not so far dared put to the touch was no matter of headlong wooing,
but the mere ‘Madam, will you walk, madam will you talk?’ on a Thursday
or a Sunday afternoon.

By a quarter to one and his fourth duck, he got it out.

‘What do you do on your half-day?’

Katharine was putting a bright blue patch on her duck’s head and shading
it off with green metallic paint. She said,

‘Oh, different things——’

Once started, William could go on. In a sledge-hammer kind of way he
enquired,

‘What are you doing this afternoon?’

‘I haven’t really thought.’

‘You wouldn’t—I suppose—you couldn’t—I mean you wouldn’t——’

Katharine looked up, wanted to laugh, wanted to cry, looked down again.
Her lips quivered into a very faint smile.

‘I might.’

‘Oh, I say—would you really? I’ve wanted to ask you for ages, but I
didn’t know—I mean I thought—I mean you must have lots of friends——’

She looked up again. He had a smear of paint on his left cheek. She
said,

‘Are you asking me to go out with you?’

‘Well, I was—but of course——’

‘You can’t back out of it now—it would be frightfully rude. Where shall
we go?’

‘Where would you like to go?’

‘I’d like to go somewhere in your car and then come back to my flat and
have tea, because it isn’t any fun driving after dark.’

‘You wouldn’t really, would you? It’s a most frightful old thing, more
or less made up out of scrap-iron. Everyone laughs at it, but it goes.
Only it isn’t the sort of thing——’

‘You’ve got a very unbelieving nature. I’ve told you what I’d like to
do. Did you really mean to paint that duck black? Because that’s what
you’re doing.’

William contemplated his work with horror. The duck, funereally black
except for a squawking beak and an unpainted eye, leered back at him. He
brightened.

‘I don’t know about meaning to, but touched up with the metallic green
he’ll be rather effective—the bold, bad, buccaneering drake. And I
think he’d better have an orange-coloured beak and feet. He’ll have to
dry first. It isn’t worth starting anything else—it’s just on one.
You’re quite sure——’

Katharine said, ‘Quite,’ without looking up.

‘Then I’ll go along and get the car. Miss Cole can shut up. I’ll be
waiting for you where Canning Row comes in.’ He grinned suddenly and
said, ‘She goes the other way.’

They drove out over Hampstead Heath. The car deserved all that William
had said about it, but it was quite obviously the pride of his heart.
With his own hands he had assembled it from the scrap-heap, tinkered
here, straightened there, contrived, coerced, and finally applied two
coats of enamel. Katharine, who remembered other cars, had a ridiculous
softening of the heart for this one.

They stopped and had lunch, and then went on again through a winter
afternoon with a pale gold sun in a pale blue sky and mist coming up out
of the ground. Katharine found she did not have to talk at all. She only
had to sit there and every now and then say, ‘How lucky,’ or, ‘That was
very clever of you,’ whilst William recited the saga of how he had
picked up his tin kettle bit by bit. He was perfectly happy and
completely absorbed. If everything else about him changed, she thought,
that was one thing which would never alter, his capacity for being
absorbed in whatever it was he happened to be thinking about at the
time. If he was thinking about her he could paint a duck black without
knowing it, but if he happened to be thinking about the duck he might
not notice whether she was there or not. At least—well, she wondered.
She was so taken up with her own thoughts that she missed the
soul-stirring narrative of how William had acquired a fog-light, which
was a pity, because it threw considerable light upon his energy,
perseverance, and resource.

They got to the flat, which had been lent to Katharine by a friend who
had gone abroad.

‘I had to let my own—it was too expensive—so I don’t know what I
should have done if Carol hadn’t come to my rescue.’

The flat was a cluster of rooms built over a garage in a mews. William
drove between tall brick pillars on to what looked like a cobbled
village street with a row of cottages on either side. In the last of the
daylight the scene was picturesque. Children bowled hoops and
roller-skated. There were lines of washing, and lines from which washing
had been taken in, one of them made of two skipping-ropes tied together.
There were wide garage doors in many shades of paint and corresponding
degrees of decay. Flights of concrete steps guarded by iron railings ran
up to the flats above. They had gabled roofs and occasionally
window-boxes, empty now. The railing of Katharine’s steps was painted
scarlet, and so was the front door.

Standing at the top while she found her key, she drew William’s
attention to the view. Behind the roofs of the houses opposite tall,
bare plane trees stood out black against a stretch of pale-green sky.
Between the gables lights sparkled like fireflies. Away to the left
someone was hammering on metal, bang, clang, bang, and two radio sets
were contending. The learned professor who was giving an instructive
talk was obviously being turned up louder and louder in an attempt to
drown the crooner next door, but the saccharine melancholy pursued and
overtook him.

They went in and shut the door. The sounds receded without being lost.
Katharine switched on the light, showing a narrow passage which turned
at right angles. There was a living-room, two bedrooms, a dressing-room,
a kitchen, and a bathroom. When she had shown William where to wash his
hands she put on the kettle and then went into her bedroom and drew the
curtains.

Carol’s taste in chintzes was cheerful. Curtains and bedspreads were
canary-yellow, with a pattern of blue and purple zig-zags and triangles.
All the furniture was briskly modern. Katharine went over to the bright
yellow chest of drawers, picked up a large standing photograph, and put
it away in a drawer. Then she took off her tweed coat and skirt, hung it
up in the yellow cupboard, and slipped on a long-sleeved woollen dress.
It was halfway between blue and green in colour, and it did very
becoming things to her skin. Even without lipstick and powder she looked
all lighted up. But this was not the shop—lipstick and powder there
would be.

She found William in the sitting-room, the gas fire lighted, and the
curtains drawn. He explained that he thought she would be cold, and
helped her to get the tea. They might have been doing it for years.
Actually, when she came into the room he was sitting at the piano
picking out a tune with one finger. As she was pouring out the tea she
came back to that.

‘Do you play the piano?’

‘I shouldn’t think so.’

‘Don’t you know?’

‘I don’t know very much about myself. My memory only goes back to ’42.’

She said, ‘Yes—you told me. I wondered how far it went. You see, it’s
obvious that you must remember quite a lot—reading, writing,
arithmetic. What else?’

He said, ‘Yes, I never thought about that. That sort of thing is all
there. The usual history and geography seem to have stuck—schoolboy
Latin—maths. I learnt German in the camps, and I rubbed up my French a
whole lot. You know, that’s one reason I don’t think I’m William Smith,
because he left school at fourteen and he wouldn’t have learned French
or Latin. Mine weren’t anything to boast about, but I did learn them.’

‘And the piano?’

He laughed.

‘You heard me!’

‘You were picking out a tune. Do you know what it was?’

‘Well, it was trying to be Auld Lang Syne.’

‘Why?’

He gazed at her.

‘I don’t know—it just came into my head. When you come to think of it,
it’s odd to remember tunes and forget people, isn’t it? There must be
people I used to know walking around, and I might bump into them and
never know them. That gives you an odd feeling. I used to think about it
a lot and wonder if I should run into any of them, but it never happened
until the other day.’

Katharine put down her cup.

‘You met someone—the other day—who knew you?’

He nodded.

‘The night I was hit over the head. It was the chap Abbott from Scotland
Yard, the one who picked me up and brought me home.

‘He knew you?’

‘Well, sort of half and half. He said we’d been at a do together at the
Luxe before the war, and I danced a lot with a girl in a gold dress who
seems to have struck him all of a heap—which, I expect, is why he
remembered me. But when it came down to names he couldn’t get any
farther than Bill. You know, I always had a feeling that the William
part of my name was all right.’

‘But he must remember some of the other people who were there.’

‘He says he doesn’t. It’s a long time ago—he’ll have been at hundreds
of shows since then. You know how it is—things get run together in your
mind. Look here, I could make toast at this fire if you’d like some.’

They made toast.

William ate a hearty tea. Afterwards he told Katharine that painting the
duck black by accident had given him a very good idea for a really black
bird, and which did she think would be the best name—the Rookie Raven,
or the Kee Kaw Krow.

When she said she liked the Krow best he demanded pencil and paper and
produced sketches. He sat on the hearth-rug with a block propped against
his knee, his fair hair sticking up on end, and a fiercely concentrated
expression on his face. He was, for the moment, apparently quite
inaccessible to anything except Krow. Yet when Katharine said idly,
‘What made you think of the Wurzel Dogs?’ he answered her at once in an
abstracted voice,

‘Oh, I had a dog called Wurzel once.’

She almost stopped breathing. She let a little time go by, then she said
in the same gentle voice,

‘When was that?’

He said, ‘I was ten,’ and came to with a start. ‘Oh, I say—I remembered
that!’

‘Yes, you did.’

He was staring at her, intent and strained.

‘I remembered it then, but I don’t now. I’m only remembering that I
remembered it.’

She said quickly, ‘Don’t try like that. It came when you were thinking
about something else. I’m sure it won’t come when you’re trying.’

He nodded.

‘No—things don’t, do they?’ He leaned over and laid the sketches on her
knee. ‘Look—what do you think of those?’

He had drawn every conceivable aspect of the Krow—the solemn, the
rampant, the jaunty, the belligerent, the predatory. To each of them he
had managed to impart the vitality which made all his creatures seem
alive even in the wood.

‘They’re very good indeed.’

He said, ‘Wait a bit,’ took them back, and plunged again.

His hand just touched hers as it gathered the papers. It shook a little.
He stopped it almost at once, but it showed him that he couldn’t really
trust himself. He must do a little more to the Krows, and then he must
get up and go away, because if he stayed he couldn’t be sure that he
wouldn’t make love to Katharine, and of course he couldn’t do that. She
was all alone here, and she had asked him to tea. He couldn’t possibly
take advantage of her kindness. And of course he couldn’t make love to
her at the shop. The sort of employer who takes advantage of his
position to embarrass the girls who work for him rose with horrifying
distinctness. He plunged back into the Krows.

Katharine watched him. It wasn’t very difficult to guess what he was
thinking. It gave her that feeling between laughter and tears which she
had so often when she was with William Smith. He was in love with her,
and he wanted to tell her about it, but didn’t like to because she
worked at Tattlecombe’s and it might make it difficult for her. She
wasn’t quite sure whether she wanted him to say anything yet. It was the
kind of moment in their relationship, exquisite and fleeting, which had
its own particular charm just because it could not be indefinitely
prolonged. It had the quality of a February day. The picture rose before
her mind—a light air stirring, a hand’s breadth of blue in the sky, the
almost imperceptible drifting of the clouds, a little mist to enhance
and enchant the half-seen landscape—fruit, flower, and all still a
dream of the bud. It had its charm—but February passes on its way. Like
Faust she could have said, ‘_Schöner Augenblick verweile doch_.’

William put his papers together and got up.

‘I think I’d better go now.’

She smiled, and said, ‘You can stay to supper if you like.’

He stood there frowning a little. The living-room was more soberly
suited than Carol’s bedroom, the furniture less modern. Katharine’s blue
dress made a pleasant harmony with the rough brown leather of her chair.
The dull background brightened her hair, her eyes. Her lips smiled at
him. He said in a stubborn voice,

‘I’d better go.’

‘Why? Sit down again and talk a little.’

He shook his head.

‘No—I’ll be going. Thank you very much for asking me.’

It was only after the front door had shut that they remembered he had
neither said goodbye nor touched her hand again.

Quite a number of interested heads looked out of gable windows as he
drove away. There were four radios in full blast. A female with a
strident voice was informing her offspring that she would cut his liver
out if he didn’t come in. Behind the plane trees the new moon, curved
and shining, was going down the western sky. In the living-room of the
flat Katharine listened to the sound of William’s gears and his noisy
retreat. Everyone in the mews would know that she had come home with a
young man and he had stayed for hours.

She said, ‘Oh, William _darling_,’ and laid her head down upon her arm.




                             Chapter Seven


By the first post in the morning Katharine received a letter from Cyril
Eversley. It ran:

    ‘My dear Katharine,

    I am afraid I have not your present address, but I hope this
    will be forwarded. Brett tells me you have let your flat and
    gone away to take up some work—unspecified. So I do not even
    know whether you are still in town, or whether you would be able
    to lunch with me at the club on Wednesday next. Admiral Holden
    is coming up to go into your affairs with Brett and myself, and
    I thought it would be very nice if you could meet us afterwards
    for lunch. I know he would appreciate it. I am sure you will be
    glad to hear that the usual half-yearly dividend has now been
    paid into your account. I hope you have not been inconvenienced
    by the slight delay. We shall all look forward to seeing you on
    Wednesday—1.15 at the club.

                                          Yours affectionately,
                                                   Cyril Eversley.’

She put the letter away to answer when she got home in the evening.

So Admiral Holden was on the war-path, and her half-year’s dividend had
been paid in. She wondered whether Cyril expected her not to connect the
two events. The letter was in his own hand. She had an idea that it
might have undergone some modification if it had been dictated to Miss
Jones. There were very definitely no flies on Miss Jones. Cyril on the
other hand would never really notice whether there were flies or not.
She thought a little bitterly about the two Eversley partners and what
they were doing to the firm—Cyril with his policy of drift, and Brett
to whom it was a bank on which to draw. Instead of pulling up after the
war years they had gone down, and were still going. She wondered a
little what would happen if she were to tell Admiral Holden just what
she really thought. She wasn’t going to do it, but she couldn’t help
wondering what would happen if she did. She was still wondering as she
went out to catch her bus.

William did not receive a letter, but he wrote a great many. He spent a
good part of the night writing them. Some of them began one way, and
some another, but they were all to Katharine. Since he couldn’t make
love to her in the shop or in her flat and he had a strong feeling that
streets, buses, tubes, and other places of concourse were not in the
least appropriate to all the things he wanted to say to her, the idea of
putting them in a letter had on its first appearance seemed quite
bright.

The trouble was that, like so many bright ideas, it was proving very
difficult to translate into words. For one thing, it appeared to be
quite impossible to make a start. The torn-up sheets on which he had
tried to get going littered not only his table but the floor. He wrote,
‘Darling,’ and blushed for his own temerity. He wrote, ‘Miss Eversley,’
and thought how cold it looked, and how unlike everything he felt for
Katharine. When he had tried several other openings and torn them up, he
took a new sheet and began without any beginning at all.

    ‘I am writing to you because I want you to know that I love you.
    I hope this will not make you feel uncomfortable in any way,
    because I should hate to do that, but it seems fairer to let you
    know how I feel. I do not like to think of your having to work,
    but if you are going to work anywhere, I would naturally like
    you to go on doing it here. I hope you will not feel I have made
    this difficult by writing to tell you how much I love you.

    ‘As far as I know, I am about thirty years old—it might be a
    year or two more or a year or two less, but that doesn’t make
    much difference. I had a head wound which was the cause of my
    loss of memory, but except for that it doesn’t give me any
    trouble now. I am very strong and healthy, and never have
    anything the matter with me, I am glad to say.

    ‘I cannot say anything about my family because my memory only
    goes back to ’42 as I told you, but I seem to have had quite a
    reasonable education. I don’t know at all what I did before the
    war, but one of the reasons why I feel sure I am not William
    Smith is that he worked in a tannery, and I am quite sure that I
    could not work in a tannery without being sick. I went to the
    place where he worked to see, and I was sick. If I was William
    Smith I should think I would have got over it—wouldn’t you?
    That is only one of the reasons why I don’t think I am William
    Smith, but I feel quite sure about it myself.

    ‘It is of course a great drawback my not being able to remember
    anything before I came out of hospital—I mean the German one in
    ’42. When I went to see Mr. Tattlecombe the other day he asked
    whether I had ever thought about getting married. I told him
    that I did not know whether I could think about it, because I
    might have been engaged to someone, or even married, before I
    lost my memory. I feel I must put this to you because I put it
    to him, but on thinking it over I do not think it could be so,
    because I would not be engaged to anyone, or married, unless I
    was in love with her, and I do not think I could forget anyone I
    loved like that. I know that I could never forget you, because
    all the feelings I have are mixed up with loving you, and as
    long as I felt anything at all I should have those feelings. It
    would not be a case of remembering or not remembering, it would
    just be knowing that I loved you. I have thought about this a
    lot, and I feel quite sure that I never have loved anyone but
    you. I hope I have put this quite fairly.

    ‘I am not in a very good position as regards money, but I think
    the prospects are good. I am sure that the animals will bring in
    a steady income as soon as we can get them manufactured under
    licence and on the market in sufficient quantities. In a year’s
    time I ought to be very much better off. Through Mr.
    Tattlecombe’s kindness in allowing me to board with him I live
    very cheaply, and I have been able to save two hundred and fifty
    pounds. I would look after you and work for you, and I will
    always love you. I do not know whether you will have had any
    idea that I have been thinking of you in this way. It was love
    at first sight. As soon as I saw you I knew there wasn’t anyone
    else and never could be. You were everything in the world. I
    love you very much.

                                                    William Smith.’

This letter he put into Katharine’s hand as she was leaving at the end
of the day. She did not read it until she got home, but every now and
then she put her hand into her bag and felt it to make sure that it was
there. It was a thick letter. There was only one explanation of a letter
like that, put into her hand without a word as she turned to go. You
don’t read that sort of letter in the street or on a bus.

She came into her dark flat, put on the light, set a match to the gas
fire, and took off her coat and hat. Then she sat down on the hearth-rug
and read William’s letter. It might have touched any woman’s heart. It
took Katharine’s heart and wrung it. Everything she knew about William
was there—his simplicity, his honesty, his directness, and the way he
loved her. She read the letter a great many times, and cried over it
with the sort of tears which leave the eyes bright and the cheeks
glowing. What seemed like quite a long time went by. Then the telephone
bell rang. Katharine jumped up with her heart beating and her breath
coming quickly. It couldn’t possibly be William—it couldn’t
possibly——

But it was. She said, ‘Hullo!’ and heard him say, ‘Is that you?’

‘Yes.’

‘Have you read my letter?’

‘Yes, William.’

‘I’m not asking you to answer it, or anything like that. You might want
to think about it quite a lot—I don’t want to hurry you. I just thought
I’d say you mustn’t think I’d make it difficult for you if you felt you
had to say no—I mean I wouldn’t bother you.’

‘Thank you, William—’ Her voice gave out.

She heard him say, ‘That’s all. I’m ringing up from a call-box,’ and all
of a sudden she couldn’t let him go. She said,

‘Wait!’

William waited. He heard her catch her breath.

‘William——’

‘Katharine——’

‘William—would you like to come round and have supper with me?’

He arrived in the tin kettle. When Katharine heard it she went out into
the passage and stood ready to let him in. She had put on the blue
dress. The moment she heard his step she opened the door. He came in
with the cold night air and the smell of frost. The door shut behind him
and she was in his arms.




                             Chapter Eight


On the Wednesday morning about half an hour before Admiral Holden
arrived, Miss Jones was bracing her employer for the interview. Properly
speaking, she was no longer Miss Jones, having become Mrs. Cyril
Eversley at a register office on the previous Saturday. The fact gave
her an added touch of assurance.

‘Now there’s really nothing to be nervous about. It’s all fixed. If he
gets at all awkward, you’ll put the whole thing on Mr. Davies. You’ve
only got to say he’d been failing for some time but you didn’t like to
supersede him after thirty years’ service. Then you put in about his
dying suddenly six weeks ago, and say it’s taken us quite a while to get
everything sorted out. If he asks anything you can’t answer, ring for
me. You can tell him I’ve been straightening out the muddle.’

Cyril Eversley frowned.

‘It doesn’t seem fair. I don’t like it.’

She said a thought impatiently,

‘It won’t go outside this room. And who is it going to hurt? Not old
Davies. Anyhow there’s no need to say anything about him unless the
Admiral gets tiresome. If you have to, it will be all the better if
you’re a bit embarrassed at bringing it out. Old servant of the firm and
all that sort of thing—it’s quite a good touch.’

He said, ‘Don’t!’ so sharply that she stared for a moment, then came
round to drop a kiss on the top of his head.

‘Cheer up, darling! It will go with a bang—you see if it doesn’t.’ She
bent over to touch the papers lying in front of him. ‘You say your piece
first, and then you show him this. Don’t bring in Davies unless you have
to, and if you feel you’re getting bogged, just say, “I think Miss Jones
knows about that,” and put your finger on the bell.’

She turned to smile at him from the doorway, and went out and along a
piece of straight passage to Brett Eversley’s room.

He looked up as she came in, and said,

‘All set?’

She shrugged her shoulders.

‘I hope so. He’s as nervous as a cat.’

His eyebrows rose.

‘Well, I suppose we shall all be glad when it’s over. Are you going to
be there?’

‘Not to start with. That’s what I’ve come to talk to you about. I’ve
told him to ring for me if there are any awkward questions. It mayn’t be
necessary, but if the Admiral gets too pressing, it’s easy for either of
you to suggest having me in. The line will be that I’m straightening up
after Mr. Davies, who was a bit past his work and had left things rather
in a muddle.’

Brett laughed.

‘That’s a bright one!’

‘Yes—I thought so. But Mr. Eversley doesn’t like it.’

‘He wouldn’t.’

‘So it’s not to be brought in unless it’s necessary. Of course there
wouldn’t be any harm in _your_ saying that the old man had been getting
pretty doddery and had left things in a bit of a mess. Mr. Eversley
would show that he was vexed and stick up for Mr. Davies, and that would
make the right sort of impression. We’d get across with the idea that it
was Davies who had muddled things up. But Mr. Eversley being put out
about it would take off any appearance of our wanting to put it on the
old man, if you see what I mean.’

Brett looked at her with a curious expression in his dark eyes.

‘Oh, yes, I see what you mean! Clever—aren’t you?’ He laughed. ‘I think
I shall always take care to stay your side of the fence!’

She gave him a perfunctory smile.

‘There’s really nothing to be nervous about. As far as this interview
goes, everything will be quite all right—I’ve told Mr. Eversley so. The
trouble is, it doesn’t go all the way. Nobody is safe until you’ve
married her.’

He pushed back his chair and stood up, his hands in his pockets, a smile
on his face.

‘_You_ tell me that?’

‘Of course I do! It’s the truth.’

‘_You_ want me to marry Katharine?’

‘My dear Brett, talk sense! You’ve got to marry her.’

‘And suppose she won’t?’

‘You’ve got to make her change her mind. You’ve always fancied yourself
with women. I seem to remember your telling me that you could make any
woman fall for you. Well, now you’ve got to marry Katharine Eversley or
go to prison—that’s the plain English of it. Turn on some of that charm
you’re so proud of and see what you can do with it. Because if she
marries anybody else, the fat will be in the fire, and I shan’t be able
to pull it out for you. I can bluff the Admiral, but I couldn’t bluff a
firm of solicitors, and I’m not going to try. If Katharine Eversley
marries, her husband will want to know what has happened to her trust
funds, and you won’t be able to satisfy him. I haven’t said all this to
Mr. Eversley because there isn’t anything he can do about it and it’s no
good frightening him. But I’m saying it to you, and you’d better get
busy. That’s all, Brett.’




                              Chapter Nine


The lunch went off well. In his relief at having come more than
creditably through a much dreaded interview, Cyril Eversley relaxed to
play the courteous, gentle-mannered host. In doing so he was not so much
playing a part as throwing one off. It was the role of man of business
which he found perennially jading and ungrateful. As the scholarly
dilettante he was at his ease. Admiral Holden, who had never thought
much of him, was surprised to find him such an agreeable host.

The Admiral was feeling pleased with himself—pleased to be up and about
again; pleased to be asserting himself with the Eversleys who had
certainly considered him as good as dead and buried (he’d show them!);
pleased to be visiting his old haunts and saying what a damned filthy
place London was, and very much pleased to see Katharine. When she came
into the hall of the club in her blue dress and fur coat, and put her
hands in his and kissed him, his weatherbeaten face turned quite scarlet
with pleasure and he thought to himself, ‘She’s a lovely woman—and be
damned to all the rest of them—they can’t hold a candle to her.’ He
squeezed her hands very tight, and she said,

‘Darling Bunny, you look as if you’d just come back from a voyage round
the world.’

‘Bed on the verandah,’ he said gruffly—‘fair or foul—wet, wind, or
snow—or I shouldn’t be here today.’

After that everything went with a bang. She had called him Bunny ever
since she was three years old. It gave him extraordinary pleasure. She
had a loving heart, God bless her, and she looked young and happy, and
he had gone into her affairs for her. If he had come out of his verandah
bed in the nick of time to dance at her wedding, nobody would be better
pleased than he. Only he wasn’t sure that he would have chosen that
fellow Brett—no, he wasn’t sure about that. Cyril Eversley seemed to
think they had made it up between them, or that they were going to, but
that it was all very hush-hush at the moment. He couldn’t see why it
should be. He thought he would have a word or two with Katharine and
find out. Hang it all, she liked the fellow, or she didn’t like him. She
was old enough to know her own mind. He could find out tactfully. He
hoped he could be tactful when he chose. Thoughts like these came and
went as he partook vigorously of lobster and partridge and finished up
with a couple of ices and some Stilton cheese.

Brett Eversley, making himself charming to Katharine, was aware of
scrutiny. Admiral Holden’s small bright blue eyes appeared to be sizing
him up. He laid himself out to entertain, and succeeded. But when
Katharine rose to go the Admiral rose too.

‘We’ll have a taxi, my dear,’ he said easily. ‘I’m going your way.’

‘Darling Bunny, how do you know which way I’m going?’

‘Well, which way are you going?’

‘Back to my job.’

Brett laughed and said, ‘He crashes in where we’ve been afraid to tread!
Go on, sir—ask her what she’s doing, and where she’s been hiding
herself away!’

Katharine was smiling.

‘Oh, I’m not telling anyone. It’s fun for me, because I can keep you all
guessing—and it’s even more fun for you, because you can invent all
sorts of scandalous explanations. They won’t any of them be true, but
that only makes them more intriguing.’

Brett took her hand and held it just a little longer than he need have
done.

‘You won’t tell me where you’re living?’

‘It would spoil the stories. It’s all too, too respectable.’

Cyril said, ‘Have you really got a job? There surely isn’t any need?’

She laughed.

‘I have an urge to work. Doesn’t that prove my respectability? I must
rush! Thank you for a lovely lunch.’

At the taxi door she said,

‘I’ll be dropped at the Marble Arch tube.’

Admiral Holden spoke to the driver, and got in after her. Except that he
did not move quite as lightly as he had done, he seemed to be perfectly
restored. As they drove away, he beamed at her and said,

‘Well, I’ve got everything settled up, and you won’t have any more
trouble. If those dividends of yours don’t come in on the nail, you’ve
got to let me know. Not much of a hand at business, Cyril Eversley.
Struck me that secretary of his knew more about everything than he did.
Good-looking woman. They had her in, and she had it all at her fingers’
ends. It seems the old clerk—what’s his name, Davies—was a bit past
his work at the end and things got muddled up. I shouldn’t have heard
anything about it from Cyril—it was Brett let the cat out of the bag.
Cyril was all for hushing it up and saying how long Davies had worked
for them, but reading between the lines, I should say he’d left
everything at sixes and sevens, and for all we know he may have been
feathering his nest for years——’

Katharine interrupted him with distress in voice and manner.

‘Oh, no—he wouldn’t!’

‘That’s what Cyril Eversley said. But it happens, you know. Old trusted
servant of the firm—everything left to him—too much left to him. Then
he dies suddenly, and the whole thing comes out.’

She caught him by the arm.

‘Is Mr. Davies dead?’

‘That’s what they were telling me.’

‘When?’

‘They didn’t say. Not so long ago, I should think.’

She said, ‘The last time I went to the office he was there. That was
about two months ago. I’ve known him ever since I could remember. He was
good—I’m sure he never did anything wrong in his life.’

He patted her knee.

‘Well, my dear, we all have to go some time. And I haven’t got very long
with you—I want to talk. First of all, I want to know where you are and
what you are doing, and why there’s any mystery about it.’ He looked at
her reproachfully—square shoulders, grey hair cut close to his head,
water-blue eyes in a ruddy face. ‘What’s all this about? I don’t like
it.’

‘Darling Bunny——’

‘Hiding yourself away, taking some hole-and-corner kind of a job—what’s
it all about? Girl does that sort of thing, it means she’s got something
up her sleeve. What have you got up yours?’

‘What do we generally have?’

‘A young man,’ said the Admiral bluntly. ‘You’d better tell me who he
is, and I’ll size him up for you.’

‘I have sized him up.’

‘Pack of rubbish! A girl can’t size up a man any more than a man can
size up a girl. Set a thief to catch a thief, my dear! I’ll size him up
for you!’

He saw her eyes widen with that little smile in them, but she didn’t
answer. With quick suspicion he came out with,

‘Is it that fellow Brett?’

‘Oh, no, darling.’

‘Well, I’m glad about that. Something I don’t cotton to there. Very
agreeable fellow—very good company. What the women call
charming—always been a favourite. A bit too much stuff in the shop
window to my way of thinking. I like them a bit plainer.’

‘So do I, darling.’

He patted her hand.

‘Very glad to hear it.’ His voice suddenly took on a definitely
quarter-deck note. ‘Then what the blazes did that fellow Cyril mean by
telling me you were engaged?’

‘Cyril said I was engaged to Brett?’

‘Or as near as makes no difference. Said it was all very hush-hush.
Couldn’t make out why. Because if you’re engaged you’re engaged, and if
you’re going to be engaged you’re going to be engaged. Can’t see any
reason to go mincing round like a cat on hot bricks, which is what that
fellow Cyril was doing. So I thought I’d have a word with you and find
out what was going on. Tactfully of course——’

‘Darling, I do love you when you’re being tactful!’

‘Meaning I’m no good at it. Well, I daresay I’m not. And I daresay you
think you can manage your own affairs without my putting my oar in.
Women always think so until they go on the rocks. Now you listen to me!
If you’ve got a man up that sleeve of yours I’d like to meet him. If
he’s any good he’ll want to meet me. I’m not your guardian any longer,
but your father was the best shipmate and the best friend I ever had,
and if you don’t know by now that I’m a good deal fonder of you than
most men are of their daughters, you’re not so intelligent as I’ve
always given you credit for being. Now, what about it?’

She looked at him sweetly.

‘Bunny, you’re an angel, and I love you.’

He said gruffly, ‘Fine words butter no parsnips. I said, “What about
it?”’

She took one of his hands and held it tightly in both of hers.

‘This,’ she said. ‘There is someone. I love him—very much. And he loves
me—very much too. I can’t tell you any more than that—I can’t really.
It’s the most wonderful time of my life, and I don’t want it to be
spoiled. I want to have it. I want a little time before I tell
people—just a little, you know. And you shall be the very first—I
promise you that. And I promise you something else—you’ll be terribly,
terribly pleased.’

‘Oh, I will, will I?’

‘Yes, Bunny—and here’s my tube station.’

‘All right, all right.’

He followed her out of the taxi, pulled a handful of money out of his
pocket, and added a generous tip to the fare. Then he turned back to
Katharine.

‘A deuce of a hurry you’re in.’

‘I’ve got to change and get back to my job.’

‘Can’t see what you want with a job myself. Look here, who’s in the
Cedar House?’

‘No one at the moment. I let Aunt Agnes have it because she thought she
was going to be at a loose end until March when her tenants go out, but
her daughter hasn’t been well and she’s gone over to stay with her in
Eire.’

‘So there isn’t anyone there. Then why don’t you go down for a bit? Take
one of the old cousins or a friend. Get the place aired and lived in.’

‘Mrs. Perkins airs it regularly, darling. She lives next door, you know,
over the corn-chandler’s. She is his wife’s aunt, and she used to be
Granny Eversley’s cook, which makes her fairly antique, but she still
cooks like a dream.’

‘Then go down and let her cook for you.’

‘Later on perhaps. Darling, I must rush. Write to me care of the bank
and they’ll send it on. Blessings! It’s been marvellous seeing you!’




                              Chapter Ten


Katharine let herself into her flat. She had leave off till three. Miss
Cole would look down her nose, but she couldn’t go back to Tattlecombe’s
in these clothes. She got into her old tweed suit, removed the forbidden
lipstick, bit her lips to induce a natural substitute, looked at the
clock, and turned into the living-room.

The telephone was on her writing-table. Standing there ready to go out,
she dialled and took up the receiver. A girl’s voice said, ‘Eversleys’.

‘Can I speak to Miss Jones?’

A moment later Mavis Jones on the line:

‘Mr. Eversley’s secretary speaking.’

‘Oh, Miss Jones—it’s Katharine Eversley. Admiral Holden has just told
me of Mr. Davies’ death, and I’m so very sorry. It was after I said
goodbye to my cousins, so I had no opportunity of asking them about it.
When did he die?’

‘Well, let me see—it would be about six weeks ago.’

‘Yes, I saw him the last time I was at the office. He seemed quite well
then. What was it?’

‘He was knocked down in the street—not looking where he was going, I’m
afraid. They took him to hospital, but he never recovered
consciousness.’

Katharine said, ‘I am so very sorry—I didn’t know.’ The receiver felt
cold and heavy in her hand. She said, ‘What day was it—when did it
happen?’

Miss Jones’ voice sharpened a little.

‘I don’t know that I could say offhand.’

‘It would be very kind of you if you would find out. The date on his
ledger would show when he stopped coming—wouldn’t it? I should like to
know.’

‘Oh, certainly.’

As she stood waiting, the receiver in her hand became colder and heavier
still. She heard Miss Jones go away. She heard her come back. She heard
her voice, hard and efficient, with that something which wasn’t quite an
accent—a little more noticeable on the telephone than it was when you
were with her.

‘The date would be the sixth of December. That was the last time Mr.
Davies was at the office.’

Katharine said, ‘Thank you, Miss Jones,’ and rang off.

An hour later she looked up from her painting to say to William Smith,

‘Do you remember the date you went to Eversleys and saw Miss Jones?’

William frowned.

‘It was just before Mr. Tattlecombe had his accident.’

‘Well, when did Mr. Tattlecombe have his accident?’

‘The seventh of December.’

She put down her brush because her hand wasn’t quite steady.

‘When you say just before, what do you mean, William? Do you mean that
it was the day before?’

‘Yes, it was.’

‘Are you sure about that?’

‘Yes. Why—does it matter?’

‘I don’t know.’ She picked up her brush again. ‘I just wanted to know.’

William had become absorbed. Only a small portion of his mind had been
on what he was saying. Now the whole of it was concentrated upon putting
the finishing touches to the first of the Krow models. Should there, or
should there not, be a touch of metallic green on the head? Nothing that
you could swear to, but just the suggestion of a sheen.

He referred the question to Katharine and they debated it earnestly.

Tattlecombe’s shut at half-past five, and William drove her home. Miss
Cole, who had put on her hat and coat and walked briskly away in the
opposite direction, took the first turning to the right, and the first
to the right again, which brought her into the narrow cut immediately
behind the shop. William did not see her because he had to back his car
out of the shed in which it lived, but by walking very fast indeed and
occasionally breaking into a short run she was able to reach the corner
in time to see him stop, lean sideways to open the near door, and let
that Miss Eversley in, after which they drove away together.

‘And not for the first time, Mr. Tattlecombe!’ said Miss Cole, in tones
which trembled with moral indignation.

Mrs. Salt hadn’t wanted to let her in, but she had got in. A really
determined woman can always get in if she wants to. It is just a
question of how many of the finer feelings she is prepared to disregard,
and how much driving-power she can develop. Miss Cole walked past
Abigail Salt at her own door and said she had come to see Mr.
Tattlecombe. On being told that in his sister’s opinion he should be
kept quiet and not encouraged to upset himself about the business, she
sniffed and said that he would be a great deal more upset if the
business got a bad name, and see him she must. Abigail was displeased,
but, handicapped by her ignorance of what had happened and a suspicion
that Abel would indeed upset himself if he thought she was interfering
between him and his business, she gave way, ushered Miss Cole into her
spare room, and left her there. Tempted to close the door sharply, she
restrained herself and went down to the parlour, where she applied
herself to playing hymn tunes on the harmonium. Her momentary indecision
about the door may have resulted in its failing to latch. The tongue of
steel engaged and slipped out again, the door remained ajar.

Miss Cole sat in an upright chair beside Mr. Tattlecombe’s bed and
poured out her soul. She wore a ginger-coloured hat and a thick black
coat. Her sallow skin glistened in the gaslight. She washed it night and
morning with yellow soap, and considered face-powder immoral. Her hands
in black woollen gloves were tightly clasped upon her knee. Her voice
trembled with earnest disapproval.

‘Every day and all day long—painting at the same table, and their heads
as good as touching!’

Abel Tattlecombe leaned against his pillow and said,

‘The painting has got to be done, Miss Cole.’

‘Very true, Mr. Tattlecombe, and I’m not denying it. But when I say that
I understood Miss Eversley was engaged to help me in the shop I’m only
saying what was clearly understood at the time. And what happens? The
very second day she is there Mr. Smith takes her out of the shop and
puts her in the workshop and gives her the painting to do, which is what
he wouldn’t let anyone lay a finger on. Because I offered, and he said,
oh no, he could manage very nicely.’ She gave a really dreadful sniff
and repeated this telling phrase in a loud tone of scorn. ‘He could
manage very nicely! And how does he manage, Mr. Tattlecombe?’ She
sniffed again. ‘Him and her with no more than the width of a table
between them, and for all I know dipping their brushes in the same
paint-pot! And that boy away at the other end of the shop taking it all
in!’

Miss Cole was a fellow chapel member. Abel Tattlecombe gazed at her
mildly.

‘William Smith is a single young man,’ he said, ‘and Miss Eversley is a
single young woman. I have spoken to William on the subject of marriage.
If he is thinking of Miss Eversley in the light of that conversation,
there would be nothing wrong about it.’

Miss Cole tossed her head.

‘You didn’t see her when she came about the place! Painted she was, and
no other word for it, and I told her straight out it wasn’t what you’d
approve of! I wouldn’t have engaged her if it had been left to me, but
Mr. Smith pushed in and said she was just what we were looking
for—right over my head!’

Abel said sharply, ‘She doesn’t wear paint in the shop.’

Miss Cole sniffed.

‘There’s no saying what she might have done if I hadn’t spoken up. I
told her you wouldn’t allow it, and I’ve kept a pretty sharp look-out to
see she didn’t get round what I said.

Abel was becoming weary of the bickering voice. He said, ‘Well, that’s
all right,’ and immediately became aware that the remark was optimistic.

Miss Cole looked at him in a pitying manner.

‘If you call it all right for him to drive her away in his car and stay
out till all hours!’

Abel’s temper slipped a little.

‘What do you call all hours? And how do you know how long he stays out?’

Miss Cole bridled.

‘I suppose Mrs. Bastable has a tongue in her head! Eleven one night, and
half-past eleven another, and before we know where we are there’s no
saying whether he’ll come home at all! It’s not what I call
respectable!’

Mr. Tattlecombe was a good deal more disquieted than he wished it to
appear. He put Miss Cole down for a meddlesome old maid. But the
respectability of his shop was very dear to him. It should be beyond
question or comment, and here was Miss Cole gossiping with Mrs.
Bastable, and both of them questioning and commenting just about as hard
as they could go. He wished, as many a man has wished, that something
could be done to stop women talking, and he remembered that when he was
twenty-four he had taken a girl on the river in June and not brought her
back until midnight, and what a blazing row there had been. She was a
pretty girl, and she had married a stout middle-aged shopwalker at
Prentice & Biddle’s and had seven or eight children, all the image of
their father. And he had married Mary Sturt and been very happy with her
until the Lord took her... He fixed his blue eyes on Miss Cole’s face
and said,

‘Does the young woman live with her parents?’—Because if she did, and
William was courting her, he would naturally go there of an evening.

‘Parents!’ said Miss Cole. ‘There isn’t much of that, Mr. Tattlecombe! A
flat in a mews—21, Rasselas Mews—that’s where she lives! Lent her by a
friend is what she says! And all alone there—because she let that out!
So if that’s where Mr. Smith stays half the night, _you_ may call it
respectable, Mr. Tattlecombe, but I don’t!’

This outburst was delivered in a series of short gasps. If Mr.
Tattlecombe had been at all mobile, it is tolerably certain that he
would have left the room. Unable even to leave his bed, he had perforce
to sustain the onslaught.

Miss Cole took a good long breath and began again.

‘A front door painted scarlet isn’t what I’d call respectable
either—steps going up to it and the railings as red as any pillar-box!
And no hearsay gossip about that, for I saw them with my own eyes, and
if you want to know what came into my mind, well, it was the Scarlet
Woman! And can you be surprised?’

Abel Tattlecombe primmed up his mouth. If he wasn’t surprised, he was
certainly shocked. He said so, just like that.

‘Miss Cole, I am shocked!’

Miss Cole appeared quite pleased about it.

‘I thought you would be!’

‘I am shocked at the way you are jumping to conclusions. Red paint on
the front door of a flat that someone else has lent you——’

Miss Cole interrupted with vigour.

‘Don’t say lent _me_, Mr. Tattlecombe! We’ve all heard about flats in
mews before this, and we know what to think about them, let alone
scarlet paint on the doors!’

Abel restrained himself with difficulty. Miss Cole was a valued
assistant. Persons of unblemished moral probity and years of business
experience did not grow on gooseberry bushes. If you possessed one you
did not lightly let her go. He said with praiseworthy calm,

‘I think that’s enough about the paint, Miss Cole.’

Miss Cole tossed her head.

‘Certainly, if that is your wish, Mr. Tattlecombe! Whether it’s on Miss
Eversley’s face or on her front door, I’m sure it’s all one to me! And
if I thought I had a duty and it’s been misunderstood, well, I’ve done
what my conscience told me, and I shan’t mention it again!’

Abel hoped very much that this was true, but he was not very sanguine.
Even his wife, estimable and deeply mourned, had been known to close an
argument in this manner, only to reopen it as soon as she had thought of
something more to say. He said, ‘I will speak to William Smith,’ and
took refuge in his character of an invalid, alarming Miss Cole by
groaning slightly, closing his eyes, and leaning back against the pillow
which happened to be uppermost.

Heart-smitten and alarmed, she retired in disorder to find Mrs. Salt. As
she came out upon the landing, a black skirt disappeared into the room
opposite. A big bony hand remained in view for a moment. It had been
closing the door. It now withdrew. The latch clicked home.

Miss Cole, who knew all about Emily Salt, did not bother her head—Emily
always tried to get out of the way if anyone came to the house. She
found Abigail, hoped she hadn’t tired Mr. Tattlecombe, and hastened to
be gone.

Abigail Salt went up with a cup of Benger’s. She met Emily coming down
with a queer sly look on her face, and didn’t like it. Sometimes Emily
worried her. She went on in to Abel, and found him angry.

‘That woman talks too much, Abby.’

‘Most people do,’ said Abigail Salt.




                             Chapter Eleven


William and Katharine sat by the fire and talked. Mr. Tattlecombe would
have approved of their demeanour. William had a writing-block and
pencil, and appeared to be entirely concentrated on doing sums. Although
she was sharing the sofa, Katharine was not even touching him except
with a fold of her dress and the look which dwelt sweetly and with a
tinge of humour upon a serious and rugged profile. The single young man
and the single young woman were, in fact, engaged upon computing a
double income and deciding whether it justified them in getting married
without waiting for the Wurzel toys to boom. For the purposes of this
computation they had taken their joint salaries, and Katharine had
confessed rather tentatively to a private income of two hundred pounds a
year. To her relief, this was received with approval, William obviously
considering with perfect simplicity that it would make it easier for
them to get married, and was therefore a very good thing.

Since this had gone down so well, she followed it up with a casual,
‘I’ve put it rather low—it’s always been more than that really. But
there was a hitch this year—some of the things didn’t pay. That was one
of the reasons why I had to let my flat.’

He looked up frowning.

‘What do you pay for this one?’

‘Well, Carol didn’t really want to take anything. She didn’t want to
let. She said there was always a chance the roof might fall in. They had
a land mine about a quarter of a mile away, and there’s an idea that it
rather shook the whole of this place up.’

The frown deepened.

‘I don’t like your living in a place where the roof might fall in.’

‘Darling, I think Carol was just trying to push the flat on to me
without taking any rent for it.’

‘But she ought to be getting rent for it. I mean, it’s all right for
you, but when we get married, it will be my business to pay the rent.
How long is she going to be away?’

‘You never know with Carol. That’s partly why she didn’t want to let.
She’s gone off to get material for the sort of book she writes—A Roamer
in Rome, or, Tramps in Tanganyika, you know. She does it awfully well,
with little pen and ink sketches. And sometimes she gets what she wants
in six weeks, and sometimes she just stays on and on letting it all soak
in.’

William put down two pounds a week for ‘rent of flat’. He remarked that
it might be very inconvenient if they had to turn out at a moment’s
notice.

Katharine said, ‘We might be able to get back into my own flat.’

The words were no sooner out of her mouth than she realized that she
ought to have kept them in. William immediately wanted to know where it
was, how many rooms it had, and what the rent would be. When she told
him he said with decision that it would be a good deal too expensive,
but they could be looking about for something else.

He finished their budget, looked at her very seriously, and said,

‘We can do it easily. How soon will you marry me?’

‘As soon as you like, William.’

‘If you really mean that, we could make it next Saturday. That would
give us the weekend.’ He dropped his pencil and paper and took her
hands. ‘Am I hurrying you? Is it too soon?’

The colour came up into her face and her eyes shone.

‘No, it isn’t too soon.’

He put his arms round her.

‘Oh, Katharine!’ And quite a long time after that, ‘I’ll tell Mr.
Tattlecombe tomorrow.’




                             Chapter Twelve


The interview with Mr. Tattlecombe went off well. Abel had a gratified
feeling that his advice had been followed. A little more rapidly perhaps
than he had contemplated, but it was good advice and William was
following it. A single young man was exposed to temptations. The Lord
had provided the institution of marriage. William Smith would make a
good husband. If the young woman was respectable and discreet, the
marriage would be blessed. Not even to himself would Mr. Tattlecombe
admit the secret fear which sometimes presented itself, that William
might get tired of the Toy Bazaar and seek opportunities in a larger
sphere. The nearest he got to it was the thought that marriage settled a
man.

He was, therefore, gracious and urbane, invited William to bring Miss
Eversley to see him, and withheld the comments he might otherwise have
made when he discovered how very little William knew about her family or
her upbringing.

‘She was in the A.T.S. during the War. I don’t think she has many
relations. The partners in Eversleys are some connection, but I think
it’s fairly distant. You remember I went to see them about the Wurzel
toys, but the secretary said they wouldn’t be interested.’

Abel nodded. Families were like that. Some of them went up in the world,
and some went down. Those that went down dropped out. It wouldn’t be
likely that the Eversleys would be taking any interest. Having the same
name didn’t get you very far. Nor having grand relations. What mattered
was whether the young woman had good principles and the kind of
disposition which made a man happy in his home. He said so.

When William came away he had a few words with Abigail Salt, and
arranged with her to bring Katharine straight on from the shop next day.
Abigail’s calm, decided manner relaxed sufficiently to display quite a
human interest.

Emily Salt did not appear at all. For the first time since he had been
coming to the house William left it without being made aware of her
presence. There had been no furtive step just round the corner, no door
that closed as he came up to it, no tall shape disappearing into an
empty room, no bony features peering down from an upper landing,
grotesquely illuminated by light striking from below. It was rather like
going to a haunted house and finding the ghost away from home. He did
not really think about it consciously, but he had that sort of feeling.

He walked down the street past the place where he had been, to quote Mr.
Tattlecombe, ‘struck down’, and round the corner into Morden Road, which
was better lighted and altogether busier, since it ran out into High
Street. At the far end it developed shops and became quite crowded. It
was in his mind to cross the High Street and take a bus. Quite a number
of people seemed to have had the same idea.

The lights changed as he came to the island in the middle of the road.
There was a little crowd behind him, tightly packed. Just as a large
motor-bus came rolling up he felt a sharp jab under his left
shoulder-blade. It was a very sharp jab, and it had considerable force
behind it. He was on the edge of the kerb. Thrust suddenly forward, he
lost his balance and would have lurched into the road if the big man
next to him had not caught his arm in a powerful grip and held him back.
The bus roared past over the spot upon which he had been due to fall.
The man who had caught him by the arm maintained his grip on it and said
angrily, ‘For God’s sake—what do you think you’re doing?’

William turned a sober face.

‘Someone pushed me,’ he said.

And with that the lights changed again and the little crowd broke up,
streaming over the crossing—two small boys; a woman with a
shopping-basket; a workman with a bag of tools going home from some
overtime job; a couple of fly-away girls painted high; one of those
dowdy, pathetic old women with draggled skirts and a disintegrating hat;
a man who looked like a prosperous tradesman; another who might have
been a not so prosperous professional man; a stout woman with a little
boy; a young woman with a baby which ought to have been at home in its
bed. William could not discern anyone whom he could suspect of having
jabbed him in the back. Yet someone _had_ jabbed him in the back, and if
it hadn’t been for the stranger who still gripped his arm he would
almost certainly at this moment be lying dead, whilst a crowd collected
and a police constable took down the details of his sticky end.

He repeated his previous remark, and added to it.

‘Someone pushed me—jabbed me under the shoulder with something hard—I
think it was a stick.’

The large man who held him by the arm let go. William was manifestly
neither mad nor drunk. He looked him up and down, and the anger went out
of him. Odd things happened. He had been in all the big cities of the
world, and it was his opinion that London could beat most of them when
it came to odd happenings. If he hadn’t been in a hurry he would have
pursued this theme with William. As it was, he decided regretfully that
he hadn’t the time. Mortimer was the devil and all if you kept him
waiting. If he wasn’t in a good temper, the interview would be a flop.
He therefore clapped William on the shoulder, said, ‘You’re lucky not to
be dead. Better be more careful about what enemies you make,’ and went
off at a swinging stride. That he afterwards interviewed the elusive
Mortimer with tact and penetration, wrote a brilliant article on him and
his latest discovery, and about a month later published an intriguing
sketch entitled ‘A Jab in the Back with a Blunt Stick’ has of course
nothing to do with this story.

William caught his bus.

He told Katharine all about his interview with Mr. Tattlecombe, but he
didn’t tell her about the jab in the back. For one thing it would have
seemed a stupid waste of time, and for another it might have frightened
her. Also, coming along in the bus, the idea of a spotted animal with
horns and a rolling eye had come into his mind, and he wanted to get it
down on paper in case it faded. He thought of calling it the Crummocky
Cow. Ideas were annoyingly apt to fade if you neglected them. The odd
thing was that after doing his sketches, and having supper with
Katharine, and talking over their plans in a state of happiness which
was quite beyond anything he could have thought possible, he had no
sooner said good-night to her and turned out of the Mews than the jab
came back to him. It was partly, of course, that the place was
uncommonly sore, but it was also partly that the voice of the erratic
stranger who had most probably saved his life persisted in his
mind—‘Better be more careful about what enemies you make.’ Well, of
course that was absurd, because he hadn’t an enemy in the world. Or had
he? Someone had knocked him down and knocked him out. Someone had jabbed
him in the back, and but for the arm of the erratic stranger he would
have pitched forward under a regular juggernaut of a motor-bus.

He walked as far as the Marble Arch and stood there waiting for a bus.
Suddenly a voice said, ‘Hullo, Bill! How are you? None the worse?’ He
turned to see Frank Abbott, very much off duty, in the most correct and
up-to-date of evening clothes, his slim elegance accentuated, his whole
appearance that of a leisurely young man about town—the last person on
earth, it would be thought, to prompt a confidence. Yet William Smith
was so prompted. Perhaps because the matter pressed upon his mind to the
point of compelling him to make some effort to throw it off, or perhaps
because of the name which belonged to his forgotten past. Be that as it
may, he said quite simply and directly,

‘I’m all right, but—something else has happened.’

‘When?’

‘About half-past seven this evening. Someone tried to push me under a
bus.’

‘Someone tried to push you?’

‘Jabbed me in the back with a stick—I’ve got no end of a bruise. There
was a crowd on an island. He jabbed me, and I’d have been under the bus
if the man next to me hadn’t been extra strong in the arm.’

‘Where was this?’

William told him.

‘I’d been to see Mr. Tattlecombe again. I walked as far as the High
Street, and I was crossing over to get a bus.’

‘Were you followed?’

‘Not that I know of.’

‘You didn’t see who pushed you?’

‘The lights changed and everyone streamed off. There didn’t seem to be
anyone the least bit likely. But of course he could have slipped
away—gone back instead of crossing over—there was time before I got my
footing and turned round. It—rather took me aback.’

Frank was frowning slightly.

‘Want to report the matter to the police?’

William shook his head.

‘I don’t see what they could do.’

Frank took out a thin notebook, wrote in it, and tore out the page. He
said,

‘It looks to me as if someone was finding you inconvenient. If you don’t
want to go to the police, I wonder if you would care to consult a friend
of mine. She used to be a governess. Now she undertakes private
enquiries—which she spells with an ‘e’. She’s been mixed up, one way or
another, with more big cases than I should have time to tell you about.
The Yard owes her a great deal more than it is likely to acknowledge.
She’s about the most intelligent person I’ve ever met, and what she
herself would call a gentlewoman. If you feel you are getting out of
your depth, I should advise you to go and see her. Here’s her name and
address, and here’s your bus. See you some time.’




                            Chapter Thirteen


Frank Abbott had had a very busy week. A corn-chandler’s wife in Wapping
went missing after a violent quarrel with her husband and had to be
traced. Husbands in the most peaceable professions have been known to
murder quarrelsome wives, and Wapping is convenient to the river. After
a number of voluble neighbours had been interviewed, some dark
suspicions hinted at, and a false trail which finished up at a mortuary
at Gravesend investigated, it transpired that Mrs. Wilkins was visiting
a friend in Hammersmith with the possibly illusory hope that her
husband’s heart was being rendered fonder by her absence.

A good deal of energy having been wasted and a good deal of time taken
up, Sergeant Abbott would have been in a fair way to forgetting his
brief encounter with William Smith if it had not been suddenly recalled
to his mind. Then the telephone informed him that his cousin Mildred
Darcy had arrived in England after a seven years’ absence. She appeared
overjoyed to be back, and wanted, in rapid succession, to know whether
policemen ever had any time off duty; if they did, when would he be
having any; and what about dining with her and George at the Luxe
tonight.

Frank was reputed to have more cousins than anyone else in England and
to be on good terms with them all. Seven years is a long time, and
people are apt to change in the East, but he had always been very good
friends with Mildred, and he thought he would like to see her again. She
had been flighty, fluffy, and charmingly incompetent. He wondered if her
rather notable complexion had survived. George he remembered as a heavy,
worthy young man eminently suited to his probable role of providing
ballast.

He accepted the invitation to dinner, and at the appointed hour arrived
to find George less noticeably earnest, but Mildred a good deal more
inconsequent than he remembered her. The complexion was gone, and so was
the charm. She looked out of date in more than the matter of clothes and
hair, but she was obviously in high spirits and affectionately pleased
to see him again. Under an appearance of rather mannered indifference
Frank was clannish. He found himself shaking George by the hand and
responding to Mildred’s pleasure. And then, right across all that, there
jigged the recollection of William Smith.

Mildred was saying, ‘I can’t think when we met last,’ and all of a
sudden he remembered that it was at the party where he had seen William
Smith, whom he recalled not as William or Smith, but simply Bill.
Bill—and a girl in a gold dress. Up to this moment they were the only
two whom he could have sworn to out of all the guests who must have been
present, and now, like two bits of a jigsaw puzzle slipping into place,
Mildred and George came into the picture. He even remembered that
Mildred had worn pink. With the barest possible interval, he heard
himself say,

‘It was here at the Luxe, just before the war—somebody’s party. But I
can’t remember whose. I can’t remember anyone but you and George, and a
man called Bill, and a girl in a gold dress.’

George was leading the way into the dining-room. As they passed under
the mirrored archway, Mildred Darcy looked sideways and saw herself
reflected there with Frank. The reflection pleased her. Frank’s slim
elegance, the excellent cut of his evening clothes, the smoothness of
the fair slicked-back hair, his poise and assurance, all pleased her
very much. It did not occur to her that her dress was _démodée_ and not
very fresh, that her hair looked brittle and dry and was done in a
fashion which had died a year ago. The girl in a pink dress who had
danced here before the war was gone and would never come back. She had
been Mildred Abbott. This was Mildred Darcy after seven years out East
but every bit as pleased with herself as Mildred Abbott had been. She
glanced into the mirror and glanced back again to tilt her head and say,

‘We make a nice pair, don’t we?’

Frank decided that he needn’t feel sorry for her. He pursued the man
Bill. He said,

‘We do—we always did. I remember thinking so last time. You had just
got engaged to George. You wore a pink dress.’

‘Fancy your remembering that!’

‘It’s about the only thing I can remember.’

They reached their table and sat down.

‘Look here, who gave that party? For the life of me I can’t remember.’

‘Oh, Curtis and Molly Latimer.’

‘He was killed, wasn’t he?’

‘So was Molly—in one of the first air raids. Lots of the other people,
one way and another. Just as well we didn’t all know what was going to
happen to us, wasn’t it? It would have been frightfully grim if we had.
That boy Bill—what happened to him?’

Frank Abbott said, ‘I fancy he went missing. By the way, what was his
name?’

She stared. He remembered the trick, and that it had been attractive.
Her eyes were a rather light bright blue, and when she was surprised or
flummoxed the whole of the iris showed. She said,

‘I haven’t an idea, darling. I never saw him before, and I never saw him
again. But they called him Bill, and he drew dogs and cats and penguins
all over the back of the menu—really frightfully clever. I kept it for
ever so long, but you can’t travel about with everything, can you?’

‘You’re sure you don’t remember his surname?’

‘I don’t suppose I ever heard it. You don’t, you know—not when you only
meet a person once. But I thought he was rather a lamb, and I’ve often
wondered if he came through the war. You say he didn’t?’

‘I didn’t say that.’

‘You said he was missing. I thought he was rather a pet. George isn’t
listening, so I can tell you as a completely deadly secret that I rather
envied the girl.’

‘And who was the girl?’

Women shouldn’t pout when they are over thirty. It should have been
George’s business to tell Mildred that her pouting days were over. She
made the face which had been freakish and charming when she was twenty,
and said,

‘But you remembered her. You said so—she had a gold dress. Was her name
Lester?’

‘I don’t remember her name. Who was she, and why did you envy her?’

‘Well she was a daughter of Aunt Sophy’s friend—at least I think it was
Aunt Sophy. Anyhow she was the daughter of somebody’s friend, because
they were raving about her. Only now I come to think of it, I don’t
believe her name _was_ Lester, because I think _they_ were the people
she was staying with, but I can’t be sure. I think it began with an L,
because if it didn’t, why should I think it was Lester? But it might
have been Lyall—or Linkwater—or Satterbee——’

Frank cocked an eyebrow.

‘Satterbee doesn’t begin with an L.’

‘No, it doesn’t, does it?’ She brightened. ‘You know how it is with
names—you think it’s an L, and it turns out to be something quite
different. Do you think perhaps I said Satterbee because I was running
Linkwater into Latimer? It was the Latimers’ party, you know.’

‘Yes, you said so. But I don’t know why it should make you think of
Satterbee.’

‘It might—you can’t tell with names. Or it mightn’t have been an L
after all. Something made me think of Marriott just then. No, that was
Cousin Barbara’s companion who went off her head in the middle of a
tea-party and broke four of her best Rockingham cups—that lovely
apple-green. Grim, wasn’t it? So it wasn’t Marriott. But it might have
been Carlton—oh, no, it wasn’t. I’ll tell you what it was—it just came
in a flash. Do you find things come to you like that? They do to me. It
was Elliot! That’s where I got the L from!’ She paused for breath, and
added doubtfully, ‘But I’ve got a feeling it might be Lester after all.’

‘Have you?’ Frank had a sardonic gleam in his eye.

Mildred pouted.

‘Anyhow George admired her so much that I nearly broke off the
engagement—didn’t I, George?’

George Darcy, having finished a detailed and painstaking conference with
the waiter, turned back to his wife and guest.

‘Didn’t you what?’

‘Nearly broke off our engagement because you fell so hard for that
Lester girl at the Latimers’ party just before we were married.’

George looked a little sulky.

‘I haven’t an idea.’

‘Well then, I did nearly break it off. And I must say she was awfully
pretty.’ She went back to Frank. ‘He can say what he likes now, but he
fell for her like anything. But of course she was engaged to Bill and no
one else got a look in. They danced together practically the whole
evening. I can’t remember whether they were just engaged, or whether it
happened that evening, but I know they were married quite soon after
that, because Aunt Sophy—if it was Aunt Sophy—told me so. But of
course it may have been Cousin Barbara, or Miss Mackintosh, because they
were both about a good deal just then.’

With his well-known talent for taking up the least important point in
any preceding speech, George enquired,

‘Who was Miss Mackintosh?’

Mildred poured out information about Miss Mackintosh, who was quite old
and kept poodles which had to be combed every day and it took hours, and
who couldn’t, after all, have imparted any information about Bill and
the Lester girl—if she was the Lester girl and not Lyall, Linkwater,
Satterbee, Marriott, Carlton, or Rockingham. No—Rockingham was the
china smashed by the mad Miss Marriott who was Cousin Barbara’s
companion.

Frank Abbott extracted an exasperated humour from the proceedings, but
he obtained no further enlightenment on the subject of William Smith.

Later on, when he was saying good night, he asked quite seriously,

‘Look here, Mildred, how sure are you about that chap Bill having got
married? Never mind the girl’s name or anything of that sort—just
concentrate on whether he married her.’

She looked up at him doubtfully.

‘Well, I think he did——’

‘What makes you think so?’

‘Well, I remember Aunt Sophy writing out and saying she was giving them
some china. She had stacks of it, you know.’

‘You really remember that?’

‘Yes, I do, because I wondered which of the sets she was giving them.
There was one I wanted myself, and I always hoped she was going to leave
it to me.’

‘If she wrote and told you she was giving them a wedding present she
must have mentioned their names.’

‘Oh, yes, she did.’

‘Well, then?’

She wrinkled up her forehead, a trick that was going to leave ugly
lines, and before very long too. She said,

‘You know, I was thinking about the china. The tea-set I wanted was a
pet—those little bunches of flowers and a blue edge, and a nubble on
the top of the teapot shaped like a strawberry. I didn’t really bother
about the names, but of course she must have said them.’

‘Try and think what she did say.’

‘She said, “I’m giving them one of the china tea-sets”.’

If Frank ground his teeth, he did it silently.

‘Never mind about the tea-set—she didn’t begin like that.’

‘Oh, no—she said I’d be interested to hear they were getting married,
because I’d fallen for Bill—I told her I had, you know.’

‘She did say Bill?’

‘Oh, yes—I keep telling you she did.’

‘Then she would have said the girl’s name too. What was it?’

‘Darling, I’ve forgotten.’

‘You’re sure it was that Bill and that girl?’

‘Oh, yes!’ This time she was quite whole-hearted.

‘Are you sure they got married?’

‘Oh, yes, I am, because Aunt Sophy went to the wedding—she couldn’t
have done that if they hadn’t got married. And I remember she did go,
because she wore her sable cape, and I got her letter telling me about
it on a simply sweltering day, and I remember thinking how frightful it
sounded—and anyhow sable and Aunt Sophy—too, too grim!’

‘And still you don’t remember their names?’

‘There was Bill——’

‘Thank you—I got that myself. It’s Bill’s surname and the girl’s names
that I want. If you don’t know them yourself, what about your Aunt
Sophy?’

‘Darling, she died five years ago. And she did leave me a tea-set, only
I don’t know if it’s the one I wanted.’

‘Can you think of anyone else who would know?’

The wrinkles deepened. She shook her head.

‘Honestly, darling, I can’t. You see, such a lot of people are
dead—Cousin Barbara—and the Latimers—and Jim and Bob Barrett—I
remember they were there, because Jim said I looked like a rosebud, and
George was furious. Does it matter?’

Frank Abbott said, ‘It might.’




                            Chapter Fourteen


William took Katharine round to see Mr. Tattlecombe after the shop
closed next day, and found that the visit was in the nature of an
Occasion. Mr. Tattlecombe had come out of his splint that morning and
had moved across the landing to the upstairs parlour, which dated from
the time before Abigail’s marriage when old Mrs. Salt had lived with her
son and for the best part of fifteen years had never gone downstairs.
The carpet was the one she had chosen, and so were the plush armchairs.
The crochet antimacassars were her own handiwork. A photographic
enlargement of her in a Victorian widow’s cap looked down from over the
mantelpiece.

Mr. Tattlecombe sat in the largest of the armchairs with his leg up on a
foot-rest and a brown and white striped woollen shawl spread over it.
Abigail Salt had put on her Sunday dress. There was tea, and cake, and
sandwiches, and a cold fish mould, and a jelly, and a trifle, and a
plate of Abigail’s famous cheese straws, and a pot of her cousin Sarah
Hill’s famous apple honey.

Mr. Tattlecombe was as pleased as Punch. If favour was deceitful and
beauty was vain, it was nevertheless pleasant to the eye. He found Miss
Eversley pleasant to the eye. And not one of the flaunting kind—a very
modest, quiet-spoken, ladylike young woman. And fond of William—you
couldn’t be in the room with them without getting hold of that. Abigail
Salt agreed. A nice girl, if she was any judge of girls, and she thought
she was. Something about her that made you wonder why she hadn’t looked
higher than William Smith. But easy to see that they were in love. Funny
how a thing like that came out when they weren’t so much as looking at
each other and the talk was all about the shop, and those painted toys,
and Abel’s leg, and Sarah’s apple honey, and how did she get her cheese
straws so light. She found herself giving Katharine the recipe, which
was a thing she wouldn’t have believed if anyone had told her.

Then, when everything was going as well as it possibly could, who should
open the door and look in on them but poor Emily? Not that she wasn’t
welcome—Abigail Salt would never have allowed herself to harbour the
thought that Emily’s room was preferable to her company. If such a
thought presented itself, it would be turned out and the door banged in
its face. But she didn’t know when Emily had done such a thing as join
them when there was company. Go away down to the kitchen was what she
would do, and make her own tea and go picking over the larder for
something to eat. And many a time Abigail had been obliged to make it
the subject of prayer, for to have your larder picked over was what
would try the patience of a saint. If Abby wasn’t a saint she was a
kind-hearted woman, and she had put up with Emily and her ways for the
best part of thirty years. She lifted her eyes placidly to the tall
black figure in the doorway and said,

‘Come in, my dear. This is Miss Eversley. And I think you know Mr.
Smith—my sister-in-law, Miss Salt.’

Emily stood there in a black woollen dress with an uneven hem. It dipped
at the back and lifted where her angular hips took it up, the neck
sagged, and the sleeves left the bony wrists uncovered. She poked her
head forward, with its thatch of dark hair piled up like a grizzled
haycock, turned lack-lustre eyes on Abel, on Katharine, on William, and
came into the room and up to the table. When William offered her a chair
she looked at him again. The chair might have been a cup of cold poison
or an instrument of torture. William was to consider himself detected
and spurned. She went round to the other side of the table, chose a
ridiculous small chair a long way after Sheraton, set it down as near to
Abigail and as far from William as possible, and began to eat cheese and
tomato sandwiches with great rapidity, one down, t’other come on.
Without saying anything at all she had contrived to cast a blight. She
ate her sandwiches and she drank her tea.

Mr. Tattlecombe, with rising colour, reflected that there were trials
that were sent by the Lord and you had to put up with them. But he
couldn’t feel like that about Emily, and in his opinion she ought to be
in a home.

It was whilst Katharine was telling him that they thought of getting
married on Saturday that Emily Salt stopped in the middle of a sandwich
to make her first remark. Her voice was harsh and deep, almost as deep
as a man’s. She said,

‘Marry in haste and repent at leisure—there’s a proverb about that.’

Abel’s eyes went as blue as marbles.

‘And there’s one about least said soonest mended, Emily Salt.’

She might not have heard him. She went on eating sandwiches until she
had finished the plate. Then she pushed back her chair so roughly that
it fell over, and went out of the room as she had come, looking sideways
at Abel, at William, at Katharine, turning on the threshold to look
again, and then shutting the door so quickly that it seemed as if it
must bang. Only it didn’t—it didn’t make any sound at all. It shut, and
there was no sound at all. And no sound from the other side of it. Emily
Salt might be standing there, pressed close against the panels,
listening. Or she might have gone upstairs, or she might have gone down,
or she might have flown away on a broomstick.

Inside the room they went on talking. But everyone’s voice had dropped.
Emily might be standing there, pressed up against the door.




                            Chapter Fifteen


Late that evening the telephone bell rang in Katharine’s flat. William
had gone. The noises in the Mews had for the most part died down. One
persistent radio still discoursed dance music at a penetrating pitch,
and now and again a car came home to one of the old stables turned
garage, but most of the daytime noises had ceased. Even if they had not,
Katharine would not have noticed them. During these days she was
withdrawn from a harsh external world into her own place of happiness
and peace. The telephone bell surprised her, because no one knew she was
here. The bank or the post office sent on her letters, but she had not
given her address to anyone at all. Of course it might be someone
ringing up Carol——

She went over to the writing-table, lifted the receiver, and it was
Brett Eversley.

‘Katharine——’

She was both surprised and angry. She had refused him in as definite
terms as a woman can use, and she had refused to give him her address.
By what means he had discovered it, she had no idea. It wasn’t until her
name had been repeated that she spoke.

‘What is it, Brett?’

‘Have I dragged you out of bed? That’s what you sound like.’

‘No.’

‘Katharine, you’re angry.’

‘Yes.’

‘With me?’

‘Yes, Brett, with you.’

‘But why, my dear?’

‘I didn’t give you my address because I wanted to be left alone. I
didn’t give you my telephone number.’

He laughed.

‘And I didn’t take no for an answer. Come—it’s a compliment, you know.
You don’t expect a man who’s in love with you to resign himself to not
knowing where you are, or what you’re doing, or even whether you’re well
or ill.’

She bit her lip.

‘You saw me on Wednesday. I wasn’t ill then.’

He said, ‘Wednesday!’ And then, ‘A tantalising drop of water to a man
who is dying of thirst! How much satisfaction do you think I got out of
seeing you hemmed in by Cyril and old Holden?’

She said, ‘How did you get my telephone number?’

‘I don’t know. Someone told me Carol had lent you her flat. Look here, I
won’t bother you, but what’s the sense of shutting yourself up like
this? Dine with me tomorrow. I’ll call for you at seven.’

‘I’m afraid I can’t.’

‘Can’t—or won’t?’

‘Both, Brett.’

‘You’re being rather hard on me, Katharine—don’t you think so? What do
you think I’m made of? You go away suddenly without a word to
anyone—it’s not very easy to put up with. If we’re nothing more, we’re
cousins and friends, and—I love you.’

Her tone softened a little.

‘I’m sorry, Brett, it’s no use.’

‘You don’t give me a chance to make you care.’

‘Brett, there isn’t any chance.’

‘I don’t accept that. There’s always a chance. I’m only asking you to
give me mine.’

She had begun to feel as if she were holding a door against which he was
pushing hard. It tired her. She wished very much that he would go away.
She had said no, and she had meant no, and he wouldn’t take it. Where
did you go from there? She said,

‘It’s no use, Brett—there’s no chance for me to give you. I’m going to
marry someone else.’

She heard him say ‘Who?’ but she didn’t answer that.

She said in a tired voice, ‘It isn’t any use,’ and put the receiver
back.




                            Chapter Sixteen


William Smith was married to Katharine Eversley at St. James’ Church,
just round the corner from Rasselas Mews, at half-past two on Saturday
afternoon. All the morning they painted together in the workshop behind
Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar. At one o’clock William drove Katharine home.
They had lunch together, after which he put on his best suit, a neat and
quite undistinguished blue serge, in what had been Carol’s spare room.
It was going to be his dressing-room now. He unpacked and put his things
away with the feeling that this unbelievable happiness seemed real and
felt real, but all the same he didn’t see how it could possibly be true.
There was something reassuring about getting out his shaving things and
putting shirts away in a drawer. He put everything away very neatly.
Every time he folded anything or opened a cupboard door it seemed to
make it more probable that he was going to marry Katharine, because if
he wasn’t he wouldn’t be unpacking his things in her flat.

Katharine dressed for her wedding with as much care as if the
congregation in whose face she was going to be married to William would
fill the church and set up the highest possible standard of distinction
and elegance, instead of consisting of Abigail Salt and Mrs. Bastable,
together with any stray passer-by who might scent a wedding and drop in
to see the bride. The dress, of rather a deep shade of blue, threw up
her skin and brought out the gold lights in her hair. The long matching
coat with the touch of fur at the neck was soft and warm. The small hat,
hardly more than a cap, was made of the same stuff, with an odd little
knot of the fur.

They walked round to the church together and were with Abigail Salt and
Mrs. Bastable as witnesses. To Katharine the church was not empty, or
cold, or dark. It was full of her love and William’s.

The immemorial words of the marriage service sounded in the echoing
space and trembled away into silence—‘I require and charge you both, as
ye shall answer at the dreadful day of judgment when the secrets of all
hearts shall be disclosed, that if either of you know of any impediment,
why ye may not be lawfully joined together in Matrimony, ye do now
confess it...’ The silence seemed to echo too.

Katharine lifted her head and looked up into the reds and blues of a
stained-glass window where Christ turned the water into wine.

Now the old betrothal service followed, and the vows ‘to have and to
hold from this day forward, for better for worse, for richer for poorer,
in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, till death us do
part...’ William’s voice quite steady, quite sure of what he was
promising. Then her own, rather soft—‘to love, cherish, and to obey,
till death us do part according to God’s holy ordinance....’

William putting the ring on her finger—‘with my body I thee worship...’

And the prayer, the joining of hands, and—‘those whom God hath joined
together let no man put asunder...’

The young man who took the service had a pleasant voice. It came out
strong and full when he pronounced them man and wife and blessed them.

Mrs. Bastable sniffed and dried her eyes. Weddings always made her cry.
Abigail Salt sat up very straight in a black coat with a fur collar.
Because it was a wedding she had put an unseasonable bunch of
cornflowers in her hat. They made her eyes look very blue.

In the vestry Katharine signed her name and looked at it and smiled a
little, and stood aside for William to sign too. He wrote his William
Smith.

The young parson stopped him as he was turning away.

‘Your father’s name too, Mr. Smith.’

‘I’m afraid I don’t know it.’

William was quite simple and unembarrassed. It was the parson who
coloured.

‘I’m afraid——’ he began, and stopped.

‘You see, I’ve lost my memory. I can put blank Smith if you like.’

Well, of course, it wasn’t what he liked or didn’t like. He really
didn’t know. He would have to tell the Vicar. After all, if a man didn’t
know his father’s name he didn’t.

William wrote Smith with a dash in front of it on the register. And then
the young parson called Katharine back.

‘You have to give your father’s name too, Mrs. Smith.’

Still with that small faint smile, Katharine leaned over and wrote. Then
she turned round to be congratulated by Mrs. Bastable.

‘I’m sure I hope you’ll be happy, Mrs. Smith. And I’m sure Mr. Smith is
one that anyone could be happy with. Believe it or not, I don’t know
that I’ve ever seen him out of temper, and when you think how most men
are—well, it’s bound to make a difference, isn’t it? Mr. Bastable had a
very hasty temper. And particular about his food—well you’d hardly
believe it. Always talking about his mother’s cooking too, and if
there’s anything more likely to make unpleasantness in the home, well, I
don’t know what it is. I’ve always been considered sweet-tempered
myself, but when he used to look at my scones and say how much lighter
his mother made them, it used to come up on the tip of my tongue to say,
“Then why didn’t you stay home with her?” But I never said it. I don’t
know what he might have done if I had—being so hasty you know.’ She
dabbed her eyes and sniffed again. ‘Oh, well, we must let bygones be
bygones, mustn’t we? And Mr. Bastable’s been gone getting on for twenty
years.’

Abigail Salt had much fewer words. She said,

‘I hope you will be very happy, and Mr. Tattlecombe hopes so too.’




                           Chapter Seventeen


That same evening Frank Abbott dropped in on Miss Maud Silver at her
flat at Montague Mansions. Whatever happened in the outer world, here
time stood still. But not in any sluggish, lotus-eating manner—‘Oh
dear, no,’ as Miss Silver herself might have said. He found in her a
constant stimulus to thought, and whilst her idiosyncrasies were a
continual entertainment, he did actually and in sober truth revere the
little woman who, beginning her working life in what she herself termed
the private side of the scholastic profession, was now a much
sought-after enquiry agent.

Where time had been halted was on the threshold of this room. The
furniture inherited from more than one great-aunt was of the type
strangely popular in the sixties of the previous century. The chairs,
with their walnut frames, bow legs, and spreading upholstered laps,
suggested long-departed crinolines and peg-top trousers. Engravings of
famous Victorian pictures in yellow maple frames looked down upon a
carpet not of contemporary age but of a truly contemporary pattern. The
pictures, interchanged from time to time with those in her bedroom,
included the late Sir John Millais’ _Bubbles_, Mr. G. F. Watts’ _Hope_,
together with _The Stag at Bay_ and _The Soul’s Awakening_. The carpet,
new a year ago, was of a lively shade of peacock-blue, with a pattern of
pink and white roses in wreaths caught together with bows of green
ribbon. The curtains, of the same blue but duller in tone, had survived
the war, and though not actually shabby were due to be replaced as soon
as Miss Silver felt justified in spending so much money upon herself.
Two of her niece Ethel Burkett’s boys were now at school, and a baby
girl had been added to the family during the past year. School outfits
were expensive, and much as the Burketts rejoiced over having a daughter
after three boys in succession, the year had placed a considerable
strain on their finances, and it was not in Miss Silver’s nature to
allow them to bear it unaided. The curtains could very well do another
year, or even two.

As she sat in her comfortable chair beside her comfortable fire, her
heart was full of gratitude. She had lived for twenty years in other
people’s houses, and had expected to live twenty more before retiring on
a pittance. The hand of Providence had, however, translated her into a
new profession, and to circumstances of modest comfort. The mantelshelf,
the bookcase, two occasional tables, and a whatnot were crowded with
photographs of grateful clients incredibly framed in fretwork, in
hammered or patterned silver, in silver filigree upon plush. A good many
of them were photographs of young men and girls, and of the babies who
would never have been born if this little old maid had not brought her
intelligence and skill to bear upon their parents’ problems.

Frank Abbott was received very much as if he had been a nephew. He
accepted the cup of coffee brought him by Emma Meadows, Miss Silver’s
valued housekeeper, and sat back sipping it and feeling pleasantly at
home. On the other side of the hearth Miss Silver was knitting a pair of
infant’s leggings in pale blue wool. After completing three pairs of
stockings each for Johnny, Derek and Roger, she was now equipping little
Josephine for the coming spring—so treacherous and changeable. With
four children to make and mend for, to say nothing of her husband and
all the household work, Ethel really had no time for knitting.

There was a pleasant silence in the room. A coal fell in the fire. Miss
Silver’s needles clicked above the pale blue wool. Frank finished his
coffee and leaned sideways to put down the cup. Then he said,

‘How did you find out that the way to make people talk is to sit there
knitting and make them feel everything is as safe as houses and it
doesn’t matter what they say?’

A faint smile just touched her lips. She went on knitting.

He laughed.

‘You know, I’ve been here hundreds of times and it’s only just come to
me that the thing you conjure with is security. That’s what you’re
putting across. Your pictures, your furniture—they’ve come down from a
settled past. They belong to the time when there practically wasn’t an
income tax and European wars were just something you read about in _The
Times_. There’s all that—and then the one practical modern touch, your
office table. That makes them feel that the security doesn’t just exist
in the past—it can be brought up to date and put to work for them.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘I find that a little fanciful.’

He smiled.

‘How many frightened people have you had in this room?’

Her eyes dwelt on him for a moment.

‘A good many.’

He nodded.

‘Well, I wouldn’t mind betting that very few of them went away as
frightened as they came.’

Her needles clicked, the pale blue wool revolved. She said,

‘I think you have something on your mind. What is it?’

He did not speak at once, but leaned back, looking at her. No one could
have suited her room better—the small neat features, the rather pale
smooth skin, washed twice a day with soap and water, belonged to a
period when a lady did not use make-up and even powder was considered
‘fast’. Her hair conformed more to the Edwardian than the Victorian age,
being banked up in a fringe like the late Queen Alexandra’s and coiled
neatly at the back, the whole controlled by an invisible net. During the
years he had known her Frank had not observed that she had any more grey
hairs than the few which he remembered to have been there at their first
meeting, nor did she seem to be older in any other way. She might have
stepped out of any family group at the end of the last century or at the
beginning of this. It was her practice to wear a summer silk in the
winter evenings. The current garment, of the type sold by pushing
saleswomen to elderly ladies who are not very much interested in dress,
was of a boiled spinach colour with an orange pattern of dots and dashes
which suggested Morse. It came modestly to the ankles and revealed black
woollen stockings and glacé shoes with beaded toes. The V-neck had been
rendered high by the insertion of a net front with a boned collar. The
pince-nez, used only for fine print, was looped to the bosom of the
dress by a gold bar brooch set with pearls, and the base of the V was
decorated by Miss Silver’s favourite ornament, a rose carved in black
bog oak with an Irish pearl at its heart. Since the January evening was
cold, a black velvet coatee reinforced the thin silk of the dress. It
was a cherished garment—so comfortable, so warm—but it must be
confessed that its better days were definitely past and gone, and that
it was now a mere relic. No self-consciousness on that score, however,
disturbed Miss Silver’s appreciation of its comfort.

With no need to keep her eyes upon her knitting, she smiled at Frank,
maintained her affectionate regard, and waited for him to speak. When he
did so, it was in an odd doubtful tone.

‘I’ve run up against something—I don’t quite know what.’

Miss Silver pulled on her ball of pale blue wool.

‘It is disturbing you?’

‘I suppose it is. The fact is, I don’t know whether there’s anything in
it or not. There might be nothing—or something. I don’t know quite what
to do, or whether I ought to do anything at all.’

‘Perhaps you would feel clearer about it if you were to put conjectures
on the subject into words. If you would care to tell me about it——’

He laughed a little.

‘I’ve come here on purpose, and you know it.’

Miss Silver coughed with the faintest hint of reproof.

‘Then, my dear Frank, suppose you begin.’

He said; ‘There’s probably nothing in it, but I’d like to get it off my
chest. About a week ago I was coming along Selby Street, which is a
respectable suburban road on the way out to Hampstead, when a man came
out of a house on my left and walked along in front of me. I saw him
with the open door of the house behind him. He had fair hair, and the
light caught it. Anyone else could have seen him too. That’s one of the
points—anyone could have seen what I did. After the door was shut and
he was out in the street visibility wasn’t too good. It was a thickish
night with rain in the air, but we were coming up to a lamp-post and I
could see him ahead of me—perhaps twenty feet away, perhaps a little
more. Then all of a sudden there was someone else, and I don’t know
where he came from—out of one of the other houses—out of a cut between
the houses—out of somebody’s porch—I don’t know. The first I saw of
him, he was there between me and the light, closing up on the first man.
All I can swear to is that he was wearing a raincoat and some kind of a
hat. Then in a flash he swung up his arm and brought it down again. The
first man dropped, I ran up, and the fellow who had hit him ran away. I
lost him almost at once. As soon as you got away from the lamp-post you
couldn’t see a thing. I went back to the man on the pavement, and he’d
had a pretty lucky escape—hit over the head with something hard enough
to break it if it had been the sort that breaks easily. He told me
himself that it was tough. His hat had taken the worst of it.’

Miss Silver listened attentively, but made no comment.

Frank leaned forward.

‘Well, he was a bit dazed and shaken. I took him round to the police
station and they gave him a cup of tea, and then I took him home to
Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar, where he is an assistant temporarily in
charge. He had been visiting his employer in Selby Street, where he has
been laid up after a road accident. I expect you wonder what all this is
about—and here it is. The chap said his name was William Smith, but it
isn’t. I’d seen him before and I recognized him. I told him so, and he
told me that he came out of a German hospital in ’42 as William Smith,
and that was as much as he knew. He hadn’t got any past, and he
naturally wanted to know who I thought he was.’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked.

‘And who do you think he is?’

‘That’s the bother of it—I can’t get any farther than Bill. You know
how it is, everybody using Christian names—I don’t suppose I ever heard
his surname.’ He told her about the party at the Luxe. ‘And you can take
it from me that’s the sort of crowd where he belonged, and that quite
definitely you wouldn’t expect to find him assisting in a suburban toy
bazaar. He told me himself that he wasn’t the William Smith whose
identity disc he had somehow acquired. This man came from Stepney, and
Bill went down there to make enquiries. Only relative, a sister, had
moved away during the blitz and been lost sight of, but the neighbours
all laughed at the idea of his being their William Smith. They were
thorough-paced Cockneys and were proud of it, and they despised what
they called his B.B.C. accent.’

Miss Silver looked at him across her knitting.

‘A curious story, Frank.’

‘Yes, but you’ve only heard half of it. I met the chap again on Thursday
night. I’d been dining out, and I was coming home, when I saw William
Smith in a bus queue at the Marble Arch. I went up and asked him how he
was, and he said he was all right, but something else had
happened—earlier that evening. He’d been to see his employer again.
Coming back, he was standing in a crowd on an island waiting for the
lights to change, when, he says, someone jabbed him in the back with a
stick. He lost his footing and would have fallen under a bus if the man
next to him hadn’t grabbed him. By the time he’d got steadied up enough
to look, the lights had changed, everyone was streaming away, and there
wasn’t anyone who seemed as if they could have done it. I asked him if
he was going to report the incident to the police, and he said no—he
couldn’t see what they could do.’ He paused, and added, ‘I gave him your
address.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘My dear Frank!’

‘Well, I thought you might be interested. That’s not all, you know. I’ve
given you the last incident for what it’s worth, but two rather
uncomfortable points emerge from what I’ve come across myself. Here’s
the first. After William Smith dropped and I was running up, the man who
had hit him was going to hit him again. That’s all wrong, you know. The
chap was down and out—very completely out. If the motive was robbery,
the thief ought to have been going through his pockets. Well, I don’t
think the motive was robbery—I think it was murder. He’d got what
looked like a stick, but it must have been something a good deal more
lethal—probably a length of lead piping—and he was going to polish him
off, and another blow like the first on a head with a paving stone under
it would have polished him off. The fellow was so intent on what he was
doing that he couldn’t have known I was there until I started to run,
and even then he as near as a toucher took the time for that second
blow. I shouted, and he lost his nerve and made off across the road.’

Miss Silver knitted in silence for a moment or two.

‘Do you think that this man was lying in wait for William Smith—that he
saw him come out of the house and attempted to murder him?’

‘I can’t go as far as that—there’s no evidence. He could have seen him,
he could have recognized him, and I think he certainly tried to murder
him. That’s as far as I can go.’

After a slight pause she said,

‘That is your first uncomfortable point. What is the second?’

He said, ‘Bill—the chap I met at that pre-war party at the Luxe—was
married.’

Miss Silver said, ‘Dear me!’

‘There was a girl there in a gold dress—very attractive. They danced
together most of the evening. No one else got a look in with her—I know
I didn’t. Now last night I dined with my cousin Mildred Darcy and her
husband, just home after seven years out East. They were at that party.
They were engaged at the time. Mildred remembers Bill—she rather fell
for him—but she doesn’t remember his surname any more than I do. It’s
the other way round with the girl in the gold dress. She has no views of
any kind about her Christian name, but she produced at least half a
dozen surnames, of which the most probable seemed to be Lester—if it
wasn’t Elliot. There was some connection with Mildred’s Aunt Sophy, and
she’s sure the girl and Bill were married, because Aunt Sophy wrote out
and told her she had given them a tea-set. My cousin Mildred has the
world’s most inconsequent mind. She really doesn’t remember Bill’s name
or the girl’s, but she sticks to it that she remembers them as apart
from their names, and that she is sure they got married—largely, I
think, because of the tea-set.’

Miss Silver knitted thoughtfully. Then she said,

‘He has lost his memory—he does not know who he was before the war. But
you believe that you met him at a party at the Luxe in ’39, and your
cousin Mrs. Darcy, who was also present, informs you that he married the
girl to whom he was then engaged. You knew him only as Bill, and you do
not remember the girl’s name at all. Mrs. Darcy remembers too many
names, and is not sure about any of them. You are of the opinion that
his life has recently been attempted.’

Frank said, ‘An admirable summing-up.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘As to your two uncomfortable points—have you told him that you
consider the attack you witnessed was an attempt at murder?’

He said, ‘No.’

‘And you are wondering if you should put him on his guard.’

‘Perhaps.’

‘And you are also wondering whether you should pass on Mrs. Darcy’s
information as to his marriage.’

Frank lifted a hand and let it fall again.

‘Correct on both counts. But what is there to say? I can tell him that
the chap who hit him once was going to hit him again. It doesn’t prove
anything—does it? I rather blench at telling him that my cousin Mildred
says he is a married man, because—well, you used the word information,
but anything Mildred produces is entirely without form and void. I told
you she had an inconsequent mind. That’s putting it much too mildly.
When it comes to anything like evidence, she hasn’t really got a mind at
all—she just dives into a sort of lumber-room and brings out odds and
ends. If you put them together they make something, but nobody—least of
all Mildred herself—can do more than guess at whether the result bears
any relation to fact. I think she really does remember that Bill did
marry the girl in the gold dress, but I can’t be sure, and I don’t see
that I’m justified in passing it on unless I am sure. On the other hand,
if I did pass it on it might be a clue to his identity, or it might give
his memory a jog, so I don’t see that I am justified in keeping it to
myself. I am in fact exhibiting extreme infirmity of purpose, and as I
usually don’t find any difficulty in making up my mind I don’t like it.’

Miss Silver knitted briskly.

‘There are interesting possibilities. On the other hand your cousin may
be mistaken, and the attack you witnessed have been a mere sporadic act
of violence, the initial purpose robbery, with the brutal instinct to
strike a second time overpowering reason. This has been, and is, a
factor in many crimes.’

‘I agree. But I am left with my impression. Would you like to discourse
on the interesting possibilities?’

Miss Silver turned the pale blue leggings, which had now assumed a
definite shape. She said,

‘You recognized him. Someone else may have done so.’

‘Yes.’

‘After seven or eight years a return from the grave would not always be
welcome. On the purely material side, it might be inconvenient, or even
disastrous. You have, I suppose, no idea of this young man’s
circumstances?’

‘You mean when he was Bill? Well, no. The Latimers—Mildred said it was
their party—well, they were in a fairly moneyed set. His father made a
pile in soap. Most of their friends would be well-to-do. But’—he
laughed—‘well, I was there! Bill may have been on the same footing. His
girl looked expensive. But there again—you can’t tell with girls. My
cousin Rachel who hasn’t a bean turns out looking like a million
dollars, and I know women who spend hundreds and miss the bus every
time. Bill’s girl may have made her own dress, or Aunt Sophy may have
given it to her—or any of the other old ladies whom Mildred reeled off.
There was a Cousin Barbara, I remember, queer and rather rich. Mildred’s
mother had a whole tribe of relations, and they are all dead, so it’s no
good saying go and ask them what about it. The whole thing could hardly
be vaguer—could it? What I can’t account for is the fact that it has
left me with these impressions, which are not vague at all, but quite
definite and sharp. Do you know what it reminds me of? Looking up at a
lighted window out of a dark street and seeing someone or something or
watching a train go past and getting a glimpse of a face you can’t
forget.’

Miss Silver had a Victorian habit of quotation. She employed it now. The
late Lord Tennyson was her favourite poet, but on this occasion it was
Longfellow who came aptly to her lips:

    ‘Ships that pass in the night, and speak each other in passing ...
     So on the ocean of life we pass and speak one another.’




                            Chapter Eighteen


Katharine woke with the night turning towards day. It was the hour when
even a great city is quiet—a still hour, but not dark, because the sky
was clear. Somewhere behind all those houses the moon was going down.
From where she lay she could see the tracery of leafless trees above the
roofline over the way. The trees were in the garden of Rasselas House.
They were old, and tall, and beautiful. She looked at them now and was
at peace. The window was open and a soft air came in. She turned a
little. On the other side of Carol’s wide, low bed William was very
deeply asleep. One of his hands was tucked under the pillow, the other
lay across his chest. She had to listen to catch the quiet, even
breathing. If she put out her own hand it would touch him. But her
thought could not reach him at all. Or could it? She wondered. When you
loved someone as much as this it didn’t seem possible that he could go
where you couldn’t reach him. All through time—all through space——.
The thought broke off. Time and space were frightening things—cold,
far, endless. No, not that, because time must come to an end. There was
a verse about it in the Bible—the angel standing upon the sea and upon
the earth and lifting up his hand to swear that there should be time no
longer. A little shiver went over her. Time and space were cold and far
away. She and William were here. This was their hour. Her thought swung
back again. His body was here. William was somewhere else—perhaps in
the very deep places of sleep where they say there are no dreams. How do
they know? All they can really tell is that you don’t remember what you
dream in those deep places. Perhaps William was there.

William came up into the shallows where dreams begin. The dream that met
him there was the one he knew, only this time it was different. Always
before it had begun in the street. He would be walking up the steps and
going into the house. The last time he had had the dream was when he was
hit over the head and he couldn’t get into the house because someone was
holding the door against him. That hadn’t ever happened before, and it
worried him. This time was quite different, because he was not only in
the house, but he was right up at the top of the stairs. As a rule, that
was when he woke. Always in the dream someone was waiting for him, and
when he got to the top, or nearly to the top, he woke up.

This time it was different. He stood at the top of the stairs and looked
down. He could see all the way down the stairs into the hall. There was
plenty of light—but not daylight—there wasn’t ever daylight in his
dream. Everything was all right. And then quite suddenly it wasn’t. The
dream took a slant, the way dreams sometimes do. The newel-posts which
were carved with the four Evangelists went queer. He was standing at the
head of the stairs between the eagle and the man, looking down to the
lion and the ox at the foot, and all at once they were different. The
eagle had changed into a Boomalong Bird, and the man was Mr.
Tattlecombe, looking indignant, as well he might, with his grey hair
standing up and his eyes very blue. And down there on either side of the
bottom step there was a Wurzel Dog and a Crummocky Cow. He came down the
stairs into the hall, and someone knocked three times on the door. They
wanted to get in, but the door was barred. Then they came through the
door—just like that—the door didn’t open, they came through it with
their arms linked—three of them, with the woman in the middle. He knew
her at once. She was Miss Jones, the secretary who had told him that
Eversleys wouldn’t be interested in the Wurzel toys. He knew her, but he
didn’t know the men, because there wasn’t anything to know. They were
just trousers and coats, and faces painted smooth and featureless with
the paint they used in the workshop for undercoating the toys. It was a
horrid pinkish colour and it glistened. The faces had no eyes and no
features. They were just paint. They came towards him. He called out,
‘No—no—_no_!’ and the dream broke up. He opened his eyes on the room,
the glimmering square of the window, the light air coming in.

Katharine slipped her arm under his head and drew it to her shoulder.

‘What is it? You called out.’

‘What did I say?’

‘You said, “No—no—_no_!”’

He said, ‘I was dreaming.’

‘Tell me.’

‘Well, it’s rather odd. It’s a dream I have sometimes, about going up
three steps into a house. There’s an old door—oak, with nails in
it—and I go through into a hall with a staircase going up on the right.
The hall has panelling—it goes all the way up the stairs too. There are
pictures let into it. There’s a girl in a pink dress. The stair goes up
on the right, and the newel-posts are carved with the four
Evangelists—a lion and an ox at the bottom, and an eagle and a man at
the top——’ He broke off suddenly. ‘Katharine, I’ve never remembered
that before. It’s been in the dream, but I haven’t remembered it when I
was awake—not till now. That’s funny, isn’t it?’

‘I don’t know——’

‘I’ve never remembered it before, but it was there. I used to remember
going up the steps and into the house, and that I was coming home. Do
you think it’s something real and I remember it when I’m asleep?’

She felt his rough fair hair under her cheek. She said,

‘Does it feel like that?’

‘I don’t know—I don’t know what it would feel like. It’s always felt
good—until tonight.’

‘What happened tonight?’

‘Well, as a rule I come in and I go upstairs, and then I wake up. It
doesn’t sound much, but it feels good. Tonight it all went queer. Three
of the Evangelists turned into Wurzel toys, and the man was Mr.
Tattlecombe. And then it all got horrid. Three people came through the
door—I mean really right through it, when it was shut. Two of them were
men, with their faces all smoothed out with undercoating paint—no
features or anything—but the one in the middle was that Miss Jones I
saw when I went to Eversleys.’

Katharine drew a sharp breath.

He said, ‘What’s that for?’

‘It was rather horrid.’

‘Yes. But I woke up—don’t let’s bother about it any more. I love you.’

‘Do you?’

‘Yes. I feel as if I’d loved you always.’




                            Chapter Nineteen


They went back to the shop on Monday morning, and received the acid
congratulations of Miss Cole.

‘So very sudden. Quite unexpected, if I may say so. But Mrs. Bastable
tells me she saw you married. And Mrs. Salt there too! Really I had no
idea at all, though I naturally thought it very strange when you and
Miss Eversley both took the afternoon off. If there had been a rush of
business, I don’t know how I should have managed.’

This from Miss Cole who had steadily refused to have help in the shop.
She hoped they would be happy in tones which suggested that she feared
the worst. They escaped thankfully to the workshop.

At eleven o’clock Mrs. Salt rang up to say that Mr. Tattlecombe would be
coming home that afternoon. She made no explanation, merely remarking
that she had ordered a taxi for half-past three, and that she would of
course accompany her brother. This diverted Miss Cole’s attention, and
sent Mrs. Bastable into a perfect fever of preparation.

Mr. Tattlecombe arrived triumphantly at four o’clock. He kissed his
sister and thanked her for all she had done for him, but he did not
press her to stay. William helped him upstairs, gave him a footstool and
a rug, and attended to his frank opinion of Emily Salt.

‘Listens at doors,’ said Abel, looking exactly like he had looked in
William’s dream—hair sticking up on end and blue indignant eyes. ‘I
always thought she did, and now I’ve caught her. Last night it was,
after Abigail got back from chapel. I got talking to her about you
getting married, and natural enough we got on to my leaving you the
business.’

William began, ‘I hope Mrs. Salt——’ but Mr. Tattlecombe put up a hand
to stop him.

‘Abby’s agreeable. I told you she was when we talked about it before.
The one that isn’t is Emily Salt.’ Two bright patches came up into his
cheeks. ‘Emily Salt, if you please, that’s no more relation to me than
she is to you! “Don’t talk about it in front of Emily,” my sister says.
Well, that’s what I’ve never done, and so I told her. “Well,” she said,
“Emily knows, and it’s upset her.” “What’s it got to do with her for her
to be upset about it?” I said. “I’ll thank her to mind her own
business—she’s no call to upset herself about mine. What does she know
about it anyway?” Abby didn’t say anything, so I told her straight out.
“She listens at doors,” I said.’

Abel had quite obviously enjoyed himself. He had wanted to say what he
thought about Emily Salt for a long time. Well, now he had said it. And
Abby had just sat there looking down into her lap. She hadn’t said
anything because she couldn’t say anything. He explained this to William
with a good deal of satisfaction.

‘Doctor came Saturday, and said I’d got to use my leg, so I got up out
of the chair and tried it. Wasn’t too good, and wasn’t too bad. What I
was aiming at was getting near the door, for there’s a stair that
creaks, and I’d heard it. Abby’s a bit hard of hearing, but I’m not,
thank the Lord. I’d heard that stair, but I hadn’t heard the one that
goes on up, so I’d a pretty good idea where Emily was. I began talking
about you again, and I raised my voice a bit, thinking it would be a
pity for her to miss anything. I said I wondered if it would ever come
out who you were. And that’s when I got to the door and pulled it open.
I tell you I nearly had her in on top of me.’

‘Emily Salt?’

Abel nodded emphatically.

‘Right up against the door, with her hand on the knob, listening. Good
thing for my leg she didn’t fall right on the top of me.’

William kept a straight face.

‘What did you do, sir?’

‘I said, “You’ll hear more comfortably if you come inside, Emily Salt.”
She stared the way she does and said she was just coming in. So I told
her what I thought about that. “Listening at the door,” I told
her—“that’s what you were doing, and not the first time either. And
I’ll thank you to keep your hands off my affairs, Miss Salt.” Abby came
along then to get me back to my chair. “Now, Emily,” she says, and Emily
flew right off the handle. I never heard anything like it—screamed like
a wild cat and said I was doing Abby out of her rights. “And what’s it
got to do with you if I am?” I said—and I could have said a whole lot
more if my leg had been different. As soon as I got back to my chair
Abby took Emily away. I could hear her screaming and going on all the
way down the stairs.’

‘Mr. Tattlecombe——’

Abel put up an imperious hand.

‘If it’s anything about my will, you can keep it to yourself. I’m
agreeable, and Abby’s agreeable. And as for Emily Salt, she ought to be
in a home, and so I told Abby when she came back. We didn’t have words
about it, but we might have done if I’d stayed on, so I said I’d come
home.... That picture over the mantelpiece isn’t straight, and those two
photograph albums have got changed over. The one with the gilt corners
goes at the back of the table.’

He looked about him with a critical pleasure as William made these
adjustments. None of the furniture was as handsome as Abigail Salt’s.
The Brussels carpet was a good deal worn, the upholstery of the chairs
was dingy. But it was his own place. The picture over the mantelpiece
was an enlargement of the photograph taken of himself and Mary on their
wedding-day—an earnest young man in an ill-cut suit, and a plain,
sweet-faced young woman in balloon sleeves and a dreadful hat. The
furniture was what they had bought together. He nodded approvingly, and
said,

‘There’s no place like your own, William.’




                             Chapter Twenty


That evening when they had had their supper and had cleared it away and
washed up, William told Katharine all about Emily Salt and her listening
at doors. He was making sketches of Crummocky Cows, sitting in a low
chair and leaning forward with a writing-pad on his knee.

‘Of course she’s balmy,’ he said. ‘I don’t know how Mrs. Salt stands
her. Whenever I’ve been there she’s either been peering round a door or
disappearing round a corner. But all the same I don’t feel so happy
about Mr. Tattlecombe’s will. He’s left me the business—did I tell
you?’

Katharine said, ‘No.’

‘Well, he has. He told me about it that time I got knocked on the head.
It’s awfully embarrassing when people tell you they’ve left you things
in their wills.’

‘He told you that evening?’

‘Yes. He said Mrs. Salt was comfortably provided for, and a lot of
things about our having worked the business up together and he wanted me
to have it. Of course it’s got nothing to do with Emily Salt who he
leaves it to—he told her that—but I can’t help wishing she didn’t feel
like she does about it.’

‘It isn’t her business,’ said Katharine firmly.

She was plumping up the cushions and doing the sort of things that women
do to a room which has been empty all day. Now she came to look over
William’s shoulder at the sketches he was making. She put a hand on his
back to steady herself and felt him wince. She said in a startled voice,

‘Did I hurt you? Why?’

He put up his left hand and caught hers.

‘It’s nothing. I’ve got a bruise, and you just hit it off.’

She stood beside him, looking puzzled, her hand in his.

‘What an extraordinary place to get a bruise. How did you get it?’

‘Someone jabbed me in the back with a stick.’

‘Why?’

‘Well, I think he was trying to push me under a bus.’

‘_William!_’

‘It didn’t come off, so you needn’t look like that.’

She was quite white. Her hand trembled. She said,

‘When was it? Why didn’t you tell me?’

‘Thursday, I think—yes, Thursday, because I met that Scotland Yard chap
Abbott when I was going back from here and told him all about it.
Darling, you’re shaking.’ He pulled her down beside him and put his arm
round her.

‘What did he say?’

‘Abbott? There wasn’t anything he could say. I was jabbed, but I
couldn’t see who jabbed me.’

‘Tell me what happened.’

He told her. When he had finished she said,

‘How far had you gone before it happened?’

‘It’s about a ten minutes’ walk from Selby Street to where I was getting
the bus.’

She said, ‘You could have been followed.’

He nodded.

‘Well, I shan’t be going that way again.’

She thought to herself that it might happen anywhere—anywhere at all.
Then, to William,

‘When you told Mr. Abbott, he must have said something—didn’t he?’

She was sitting on the ground beside him now, leaning against his knee,
and he was trying different shaped patches on a cow. His voice was a
little absent as he said,

‘Oh, he gave me the address of a Miss Silver. Governess turned
detective, only he called it Enquiry Agent. He said she was a friend of
his. He seemed to think she might be interested, but as I said, I don’t
see what she or anybody else can do. There isn’t any motive, and I
didn’t see anyone either time. I just got hit over the head and jabbed
in the back. There’s nothing to go on.’

‘No, darling. Where does this woman live?’

‘I’ve forgotten. I expect it’s in one of my pockets—I had this suit
on.’ He put down the pencil and dived. ‘Yes, here it is—Miss Maud
Silver, 15 Montague Mansions, and a telephone number.’

Katharine put out her hand for it.

‘I’ll put it away. We might want it—you never know.’

He said, ‘Not likely,’ and began on a different arrangement of patches.

On Thursday afternoon, which was early closing at the Toy Bazaar but not
in the neighbourhood of the Mews, Katharine got rid of William by
sending him to buy a cake for tea, and then went off in the opposite
direction, leaving a note just inside the door to say she had remembered
something urgent and would be back as soon as she could.

She rang Miss Silver up from the first call-box she came to, and went on
her way feeling very much as if she had jumped into a deep pool without
knowing how to swim. If it had been a matter of herself, she would have
turned back long before she got to Montague Mansions. If it had been
anyone else but William, she would never have got there at all.

She did get there, was admitted by Emma Meadows, who looked the
comfortable countrywoman she was, and was ushered in upon Miss Silver
and her Victorian room. Miss Silver, laying down her knitting on the arm
of her chair and rising to shake hands, saw a tall, graceful girl with a
heightened colour. She said, ‘Mrs. Smith?’ and Katharine said,

‘I rang up. It is very good of you to see me at such short notice.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘I shall be glad if I can help you in any way. Will you not sit down?’

She picked up her knitting again and looked at her visitor in a kind and
encouraging manner. The bright colour came and went. Mrs. Smith was
nervous. She had breeding as well as very engaging looks. Her
hair—really very pretty indeed—brown, but not at all a usual shade—so
bright with those golden lights in it. Her clothes too—very becoming
and well chosen, though not new—a good Scotch tweed, made by a
first-class tailor—and the hat, very plain, but not the sort of hat
which can be bought in a cheap shop. Miss Silver’s eyes passed to the
shoes, the stockings, the handbag. She knew quality when she saw it, and
she saw it now. The shoes and the handbag were not new. All this was
received and registered as her visitor took the chair on the other side
of the hearth.

It was no more than a moment before Katharine said,

‘I don’t know whether you can help me—I don’t know whether anyone
can—but I thought I would come and see you. Mr. Abbott—I think he is
Detective Sergeant Abbott—gave my husband your address——’ She paused,
and added, ‘My husband doesn’t know that I have come.’

Miss Silver was knitting briskly. She had finished the pair of blue
leggings for little Josephine and had begun a coatee to match them. It
was still in a very embryo stage, and appeared as a pale blue frill no
more than a couple of inches deep. She said,

‘You are Mrs. William Smith?’

Katharine looked startled. Her colour brightened, faded, brightened
again.

‘Yes.’

‘Sergeant Abbott has spoken of your husband. Perhaps that will make it
easier for you to talk to me.’

‘What did he say?’

‘He told me that he had witnessed an assault upon Mr. Smith, and that he
had subsequently recognized him, but without being able to remember his
name. He was a good deal interested, and so was I. Your husband will
have told you of the incident.’

‘Yes, he told me. He—he doesn’t know who he is, you see. He had a head
wound, and he doesn’t remember anything until he came out of a German
hospital in ’42. That’s where his memory begins—it’s all quite clear
after that. He had an identity disc which described him as William
Smith. That’s all wrong. He kept the name because he hadn’t any other,
but the real William Smith was quite an uneducated man. He was a
Cockney, and he worked in a tannery. William went down to the place.
They all said he wasn’t their William Smith.’ She hesitated a little,
and then went on. ‘My husband hasn’t the kind of looks that change at
all. Anyone who knew him as a boy would know him now. I expect you know
the type—rather blunt features, very thick fair hair that won’t lie
down, very strong build, very friendly expression. It’s the type that
doesn’t change at all—it just gets older. I’m telling you this to
explain Mr. Abbott’s recognizing him like that. I think anyone who had
met him would remember him. Frank Abbott did, but he didn’t remember his
name. It’s quite possible he never heard it, because everyone was just
calling him Bill. It was at a party at the Luxe, you know.’

Now that she had made a start it wasn’t so difficult. In fact it wasn’t
difficult at all. The room was so exactly like rooms which she
remembered when she was a little girl and went visiting with her
grandmother. Gran herself had possessed photograph-frames in silver
filigree on plush, and had cherished a photogravure of _The Stag at
Bay_. Old Miss Emsley who had been one of Gran’s bridesmaids, had
possessed chairs of the same family as these, with curly walnut legs and
spreading laps. Great-aunt Cecilia had worn beaded slippers and net
fronts with little bones to keep the collar stiff. These familiar
associations promoted confidence. Miss Silver diffused it to a quite
extraordinary degree. By some means best known to herself she possessed
the art of turning back the clock until the state of tension and fear in
which so many of her visitors found themselves gave way insensibly to
the atmosphere of the schoolroom. Here the problem became the teacher’s
affair, to propound, to explain, and to resolve. The responsibility was
hers, the solution already known.

Katharine did not put any of this into words, but she felt its
influence. When she had told Miss Silver about Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar,
the Wurzel toys, Mr. Tattlecombe’s accident, and what William had told
her about being hit over the head, Miss Silver gave her gentle cough.

‘I think that is not all.’

Katharine said, ‘No.’

She locked her hands tightly together in her lap and told Miss Silver
about the jab in the back. Then she told her about Emily Salt.

‘She really is a very queer sort of person. I don’t think she’s right in
her head. William says she has dreadfully creepy ways, and Mr.
Tattlecombe says she ought to be in a home. He says she listens at doors
too. I believe she is very angry because Mr. Tattlecombe has made a will
leaving the business to William. I—I wondered——’

‘Yes, Mrs. Smith?’

‘She really isn’t right in her head—I’m sure about that. Mr.
Tattlecombe had been telling William about his will that first time he
was attacked. I did just wonder if she had been listening at the door
and—and——Oh, it does seem dreadful, but I can’t help thinking of it!’

Miss Silver knitted thoughtfully.

‘And the second attack—that also occurred after he had been visiting
Mr. Tattlecombe?’

‘Yes. She could have followed him.’

‘Would she be physically capable of such an assault?’

‘She is a tall, bony woman.’

After a moment Miss Silver said, ‘Sergeant Abbott, who witnessed the
attack, appeared to have no doubt that the person he saw was a man.’

The quick colour came to Katharine’s cheeks.

‘It was dark and wet. Mr. Tattlecombe’s waterproof was hanging in the
hall—I saw it myself when we went there to tea.

Miss Silver knitted in silence for a little while. Then she said,

‘When did Mr. Tattlecombe sign the will benefiting your husband?’

‘The day before he told William about it.’

‘In fact the day before the first attack.’

‘Yes.’

‘It _was_ the first attack, Mrs. Smith? There had been no previous
indications of enmity or ill will from any quarter?’

Katharine was taken by surprise. When she looked startled, as she did
now, her eyebrows took an upward tilt, her eyes widened and brightened.
William called it her fly-away look. It really did give her the air of a
creature poised for flight. It was not lost on Miss Silver. She said
with some firmness,

‘Was the blow on the head the first attempt?’

The colour drained out of Katharine’s face. She said in a distressed
voice,

‘I don’t know.’

‘I think it might clarify your ideas if you put them into words. You
have some incident in mind—it would be better if you would tell me what
it was.’

Katharine felt as she had often felt when bathing. You walked into
shallow water which was deceptively warm and tranquil, then, as it rose
about your body, it became colder and the cold rose too. If you went too
far, any step might take you out of your depth. She thought this step
was safe. But was it? She didn’t know. She looked at Miss Silver in some
distress of mind, and then without any premeditation found herself
saying,

‘I was thinking about Mr. Tattlecombe’s accident.’

‘Yes?’

‘It happened just outside the shop. He lives over it, and he always goes
out for a breath of air the last thing at night. It was about half-past
ten, and it was a very dark, damp night. He came out by the private door
with the light on in the passage behind him, and he went to the edge of
the kerb and fell under a car. He says he was “struck down”. He had
concussion, and he was badly bruised, and there was an injury to his
leg. He might easily have been killed. Of course he may have
slipped——’

‘You connect this incident with the other one?’

Katharine looked away from her into the fire.

‘He is the same height and build as William is, and he has the same kind
of hair, only it’s grey—but with the light shining on it from
behind——’

Miss Silver inclined her head.

‘Quite so. The face would be in shadow, and fair hair would be
indistinguishable from grey.’

‘Yes.’

A little shiver ran over Katharine. She put out her hands as if to warm
them. The logs in the grate sent out a comfortable glow. But the cold
was inside her. She was afraid—afraid of what she was thinking, afraid
of what she was saying, afraid of where it might be taking her. It
mustn’t take her too far—it mustn’t, it mustn’t. And then she knew that
it had already done so. Miss Silver was saying,

‘You mean that someone who had planned the attack mistook Mr.
Tattlecombe for Mr. Smith. That would mean that the person who attacked
him was not at all familiar either with Mr. Tattlecombe or his habits.
He or she must have been expecting to see Mr. Smith. But Emily Salt
would know Mr. Tattlecombe, since she had lived for so many years with
his sister. Did she at that time know Mr. Smith?’

Katharine had that distressed look again.

‘I don’t know—I don’t think so. William said he hadn’t ever seen her
until Mr. Tattlecombe went to his sister’s house after he left the
hospital.’

‘But Mr. Tattlecombe visited at his sister’s house. Emily Salt would
have known him?’

‘Yes.’

‘Someone who knew Mr. Tattlecombe and did not know Mr. Smith might, in
the circumstances, have taken Mr. Smith for Mr. Tattlecombe, but I fail
to see how he could have taken Mr. Tattlecombe for Mr. Smith.’

Katharine’s hands were clasped again in her lap. Her words came in a
soft hurry.

‘Then—then it couldn’t have been anything, could it? It was stupid of
me to think that it could. That’s the worst of this sort of thing—it
sets one’s imagination to work.’ She caught at the word and clung to it.
‘I’ve been imagining things—it was just my imagination. I quite see
what you mean—it couldn’t have been anything else.’

She put a hand on the arm of her chair as if she was going to rise. A
hortatory cough arrested the movement. She felt called to order. Her
hand stayed where it was. She had that startled look. Yet there was
nothing alarming about the question which followed the cough.

‘At the time of Mr. Tattlecombe’s accident were you already working at
the Toy Bazaar?’

‘Oh, no.’

‘How long have you been there?’

‘About six weeks. I came just afterwards. They were short-handed.’

‘You answered an advertisement?’

The waters were getting deep again. Katharine said,

‘No.’

‘You were recommended—perhaps by Mr. William Smith?’

Her colour came too quickly. So did her words.

‘Oh, no—he didn’t know I existed. I just asked—if they wanted
anybody.’

‘Had you any previous experience?’ said Miss Silver.

‘No, I hadn’t. I—I needed a job.’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘Pray do not think me very intrusive. I am wondering what took you to
Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar.’

Katharine felt as if a wave had broken right over her head. It was a
moment before she could get enough breath to say,

‘I—I needed a job. I—I just went in and asked.’

Miss Silver said, ‘I see.’

For a moment Katharine felt that the small nondescript-coloured eyes
really did see right through her. She felt the kind of panic which comes
in dreams when you find yourself naked amongst the clothed. Her hand
clenched on the arm of the chair. She got up.

‘Miss Silver, I mustn’t stop. My husband doesn’t know I’ve come to see
you. If—if you think there is anything you can do, will you do it?’

Miss Silver got up too. She said in a very quiet and composed manner,

‘What do you think I can do?’

Katharine looked at her.

‘I don’t know. I thought if you could find out—about Emily Salt——’

Miss Silver met the look.

‘You would like me to find out that it is Miss Salt who has been
attempting your husband’s life. She is an unhinged person who ought to
be placed under restraint. It would be a simple and satisfactory
solution, would it not? But I cannot undertake to provide this solution.
I can only promise that I will do my best to arrive at the truth. And I
cannot undertake any case where I am deliberately kept in the dark.’

‘Miss Silver——’

Her rather stern look softened.

‘You are thinking that you have no reason to trust me. You must decide
whether you will or not. Let me quote the late Lord Tennyson—“Oh, trust
me all in all, or not at all.”’

‘Miss Silver——’

She was met with a sudden disarming smile.

‘There is no reason for you to trust me. Pray do not think that I would
urge your confidence, but you must not think that I can accept the half
confidence which aims at concealment. You have kept a good deal from me,
have you not? I think you know much more about your husband than you
have told me. He has lost his memory, but you have not lost yours. You
say that he has not changed—that it would be easy for anyone who knew
him before he disappeared to recognize him now. What gives you this
assurance? You feel no need to press Frank Abbott for the name he has
forgotten—to insist that he should go through every friend and
acquaintance he has in order to find the evidence which would restore
the lost identity of William Smith. Why? Because, I think, you do not
need this evidence. I think you know very well who your husband is. If
you want my help, come to me again. I shall be glad to do what I can. Go
home and think about what I have said.’




                           Chapter Twenty-one


Katharine went home feeling rather dazed. She walked all the way because
she wanted to think, but the turmoil in her mind was too great. Her
thoughts were dashed this way and that by tides of feeling over which
she had no control. In the end it all came out to the same thing—she
didn’t know what to do.

She went on walking. The air was soft and damp—one of those mild
January days which easily turn to fog. She would have been glad of the
sharp feel of frost on her face, or a keen wind to buffet her. There was
only that mild, gentle air. If she went back to Miss Silver she did not
know what might come of it. At the worst there might be publicity,
disgrace, things that William would find it hard to forgive. If she held
back she might be taking risks with his life.

She came to the flat to find him gone—a note where hers had been:

‘I thought I’d just go over the car. Mr. Tattlecombe said something
about giving us Saturday afternoon.’

He came in late for tea, kissed her cheerfully, and went to wash. It
wasn’t until he was helping himself to jam that he asked her where she
had been. She had wondered whether he would ask, and what she was going
to say. But when it happened she knew. She couldn’t lie to William, and
she couldn’t shuffle. The answer was as simple as the question. She
said,

‘I went to see Miss Silver.’

‘Miss Silver?’

‘Mr. Abbott’s friend—the one whose address he gave you.’

William put jam on his bread—a good deal of jam. Then he said,

‘Oh, her? Why did you do that?’

‘Because of what you told me.’

‘Do you mean about my being pushed?’

‘Yes.’

‘It was rum, wasn’t it? This is good jam. Where did you get it?’

‘It’s some I made last summer when I was down in the country.’

‘I thought it didn’t taste like grocer’s jam. Talking about things being
rum, _that_ is.’

‘What is?’ Her laugh shook a little. ‘You’re being incoherent. We were
talking about jam.’

‘That’s what I meant—your making it last summer, and I didn’t even know
that there was any you to make jam, and if I had known I wouldn’t have
known you were making it for me, and you wouldn’t either. What were you
doing in the country?’

‘I was staying with an aunt.’

‘Where?’

‘At Ledstow.’

He crinkled up his eyes.

‘Ought I to know where Ledstow is?’

‘It’s about seven miles from Ledlington.’

He nodded.

‘I’ve been down to Ledlington on business, just for the day. Rather a
nice old market square, but a frightful statue in the middle of it—Sir
Albert Something-or-other in marble trousers. What’s this Miss Silver
person like?’

She changed colour.

‘Like an elderly governess.’

William passed up his cup.

‘That’s what she used to be. It doesn’t sound as if she’d be much good.’

She ought to have let that go. If she had, perhaps he wouldn’t have
thought about any of it again. Something in her wouldn’t let it go. She
said,

‘She’s impressive.’

‘How?’

‘Well, she is. She knows things. She knows what you’re telling her, and
what you’re keeping back. I didn’t tell her everything, and she knew
what I was keeping back.’

William helped himself to more jam.

‘Perhaps that chap Abbott told her. Darling, you’re not eating
anything.’

‘I’m not hungry. No, he couldn’t—he didn’t know.’

‘Why aren’t you hungry?’

She smiled at him.

‘Just not.’

‘If he didn’t tell her, how did she know?’

‘She puts things together—things you don’t notice when you’re saying
them—you don’t think they’re going to mean anything to anyone else. She
puts them together, and she’s got something you didn’t mean to tell
her.’

William cut himself another slice of bread.

‘What did you tell her, and what did she get out of it? Darling, you’re
pale. What is it?’

‘Nothing. She knew about your being hit over the head. Frank Abbott told
her.’

William looked interested.

‘Is that his name? Does she call him Frank?’

‘I don’t—know.’

‘Must have, or you wouldn’t have known it was his name. I wonder why he
told her about me.’

‘He thought she would be interested.’

‘Did you tell her about my being jabbed in the back?’

‘Yes. William, I told her about Emily Salt—about her being queer in the
head. I thought perhaps she could find out whether she was more than
just queer, and—well, where she was when you were pushed.’

He shook his head.

‘It wouldn’t be any good. Suppose she was out posting a letter—it
wouldn’t prove anything. What did Miss Silver say?’

Katharine coloured. The things Miss Silver had said came back
vividly—‘_I think you know much more than you have told me_’—‘_Your
husband has lost his memory, but you have not lost yours_’—‘_Go home
and think about what I have said._’ ... Go home and think—she couldn’t
stop thinking. Her colour faded. She was pale again as she answered
William’s question.

‘She said I hadn’t told her everything. She said she couldn’t take the
case unless I did. She told me to go home and think whether I wanted her
to take it or not.’

He looked at her and said,

‘What didn’t you tell her?’

She met his look with distress.

‘It isn’t easy. I thought it was fair to tell her about Emily Salt. I
don’t know about other people——’

‘What do you mean by other people?’

Her colour came again.

‘There might be somebody else—I don’t know—I want to be fair——’

‘Someone who wanted me out of the way?’

‘There might be. I don’t even like to think about it.’

‘Why? I mean, why would anyone want to get rid of me? Unless it was a
chap who was fond of you and thought it would be a bright idea to bump
me off.’ There was half a laugh in his voice, but it went before the
end. His fair brows came together in a frown. ‘Darling, that’s barmy.’

She said, ‘Someone pushed you.’

They sat looking at each other. Then he said slowly,

‘Something else happened this afternoon—at least I found it out this
afternoon. I didn’t mean to tell you, but I think I’d better. You know I
was going to go over the car. Well, I did, and the near front wheel was
loose.’

She echoed the last word, ‘Loose——’

‘Someone had loosened the studs. They were all right last time I had her
out. Someone must have done it.’

‘William!’

He nodded.

‘It’s all right—you needn’t look like that. They all chaff me about the
way I go over the car. All the parts being old, you’ve got to be
careful. It’s as well I am, because that wheel would just about have got
us out into the traffic before it went to glory. It didn’t, so it’s all
right. But someone must have been at those studs——’ He was frowning
and intent. ‘Of course it would be easy enough. The place is open most
of the time because of Harman keeping his ladders there. Anyone could
have slipped in and done the trick.’

Thoughts came and went in Katharine’s mind. They turned into words.

‘Would Emily Salt know how to loosen a wheel?’

‘I shouldn’t think so—she doesn’t look as if she would.’

‘She might.’

William burst out laughing.

‘I should think she would be afraid the car would bite her!’ Then all at
once he was serious. ‘I don’t see how it could be Emily. She’s been in
bed with a cold ever since Mr. Tattlecombe came home, and the car was
all right then. Don’t you remember, Mrs. Salt rang up on Tuesday and
said she couldn’t come and see Mr. Tattlecombe because poor Emily was in
bed with a temperature, and what a good thing he came home when he
did—in case of his getting whatever it was.’

Katharine remembered. She took William’s cup and filled it mechanically.

‘So it couldn’t have been Emily Salt,’ he said.




                           Chapter Twenty-two


Katharine knocked on the door of Mr. Tattlecombe’s sitting-room. When he
had said ‘Come in!’ she found him in his favourite chair with his leg up
and a rug over it. He looked up from a large ledger and a litter of
papers.

‘Good morning, Mrs. Smith. What is it?’

She said, ‘I wondered if I could talk to you about something.’ She
thought he looked surprised, and made haste to say, ‘About William.’

Right on that she was reminded in the most ridiculous way of Red Riding
Hood in the nursery tale:

    _‘What big eyes you’ve got, Grandmamma.’_
    _‘The better to see you with, my dear.’_

Mr. Tattlecombe’s eyes were like bright blue saucers. He asked her to
sit down, and he asked her if anything was wrong. And out it came,

‘I think someone is trying to kill him.’

Mr. Tattlecombe looked dreadfully shocked.

‘My dear Mrs. Smith!’

But he listened whilst she told him about William being hit over the
head, about William being jabbed in the back, about the wheel being
loosened on his car. When she had finished, he had stopped looking
shocked. He said quite deliberately,

‘You’re thinking about Emily Salt, and so am I. But I never heard of her
doing anything like that. And she couldn’t have had anything to do with
the car—she’s been ill. To say nothing of not knowing the front end
from the back.’

‘She really _is_ ill?’ Katharine’s tone was tentative.

Abel nodded.

‘Abby says so. She’d know too—there isn’t much she doesn’t know about
sickness. And I should say there’s nothing she don’t know about Emily.
She’s lived with her for thirty years. How she’s done it, I don’t know,
but there it is, she has. And I don’t think Emily could take her in—not
after thirty years. But she’s coming to tea this afternoon—I’ll put it
to her. Was that what you wanted?’

‘I’d be very glad if you would. It’s—it’s serious, Mr. Tattlecombe.
What I really came to ask you was whether I might have part of the
afternoon off. We’ve got to get to the bottom of this, and I’ve got an
introduction to someone who I think might be able to help us.’

‘In what way, Mrs. Smith?’

Katharine did her best to explain Miss Silver. The extraordinary thing
was that as she did so her own expectation of being helped was strongly
increased. She didn’t know whether she was convincing Mr. Tattlecombe,
but she was aware that she was convincing herself.

Abel was looking very doubtful.

‘Abby wouldn’t like the police brought into it,’ he said.

Katharine’s colour rose brightly.

‘Miss Silver isn’t connected with the police. She is a private enquiry
agent. But if anyone is trying to do murder, the police are much more
likely to come into it if the murderer isn’t stopped—in time.’

Abel Tattlecombe nodded solemnly. If Emily had been up to tricks, they
would have to put a stop to it, and he had always said that she ought to
be in a home. He frowned.

‘There’s a thing you haven’t mentioned, but I won’t say I haven’t
thought about it since William was struck down after coming to see me.
It seems to me it’s a bit too much of a coincidence, me being struck
down and William being struck down, and no connection between the two.
It’s too similar for me—I don’t seem able to take it in. Seems to me it
was one of us was aimed at both times. Seems to me now that it was
William. We’d look pretty much about the same coming out into the street
at night with the light behind us. But if it was William that was aimed
at when I was struck down, then it couldn’t have been Emily Salt that
did it.’

‘Why couldn’t it?’

Abel brought his hand down on his knee—the sound one.

‘Because it was the night of the chapel Social and Emily was there.
Behaved very oddly too by all accounts. Regularly put out about it, Abby
was—said if Emily came, the least she could do was to behave herself
and not sit there staring as if she didn’t know what was going on round
her and then come to and say something rude. I’ve never known Abby go so
far about Emily before—she was right down provoked. And there’s no
doubt about it, Emily Salt was at the Social. I don’t say that Emily has
got any love for me, nor any reason for it, but I wouldn’t think she’d
go so far as to come along here at half-past ten of a wet night to
strike me down. And if it was William that was aimed at, what cause
would she have to aim at him then? I didn’t alter my will or so much as
mention the matter to Abby till I came out of hospital. So, let alone
the chapel Social, there wasn’t any reason for her to do it. And what
with her being sick in bed, and not knowing one end of a car from the
other, I don’t see her meddling with William’s wheel. Why, she won’t so
much as touch Abby’s sewing-machine. So I don’t see it could be Emily
Salt.’ He nodded several times and looked at Katharine out of those very
blue eyes.

After a moment she said,

‘May I have the afternoon off?’

He nodded again.

‘Yes, yes—to be sure. But I don’t see how it’s going to help. I don’t
see how it could be Emily.’

Her voice was very low as she said, ‘It might be somebody else——’

Mr. Tattlecombe gave her a sharp glance. He thought, ‘She’s got someone
else in her mind.’ Aloud he said,

‘Someone wanting William out of the way? Jealous perhaps.’ His tone had
sharpened too. ‘Jealousy’s a bad thing—works on them till they don’t
rightly know what they’re doing. Cruel as the grave, like it says in the
Bible. “The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately
wicked.”’ He became colloquial again. ‘You’d be surprised the things
I’ve known jealous people do. You go and see this detective lady—seems
a queer job for a woman, but there’s nothing they don’t do nowadays. But
don’t get mixed up with the police if you can help it. And don’t let
them go worrying Abby, for she won’t like it, and I don’t see how it
could have been Emily Salt.’




                          Chapter Twenty-three


Katharine sat in one of Miss Silver’s curly walnut chairs and told her
about the loosened wheel, and about Emily Salt being ill in bed and not
knowing anything about cars. After which she repeated Mr. Tattlecombe’s
observations about his own accident and the chapel Social.

When she had finished she sat looking at Miss Silver, who was wearing
the same dark green dress and tucked net front but a different brooch.
This one had a heavy gold border with a centre of smoothly plaited hair
under glass. Some of the hair was fair, and some was dark, the two
shades belonging in fact to Miss Silver’s grandparents, and by them
bequeathed in this portable and enduring form. There was a good deal
more of the blue knitting—little Josephine’s coatee had made good
progress. The busy needles clicked. Miss Silver looked across them and
said,

‘You are very much troubled, are you not?’

‘Yes. If he had gone out into the traffic in that car there would have
been an accident. He might very easily have been killed.’

Miss Silver let that stand without comment. She continued to knit. She
did not fail to observe that Mrs. Smith remained consistently pale, and
that she was undoubtedly suffering from strain. She allowed the silence
to do its work. Katharine broke it.

‘You said not to come back unless I made up my mind to trust you. But
you see, it isn’t as simple as that. I think someone is trying to kill
William. I thought it would be fair to ask you to find out whether it
could be Emily Salt. She is—peculiar. She is angry about Mr.
Tattlecombe’s will, and the two attacks on William took place when he
was coming away from Selby Street. But the attack on Mr. Tattlecombe and
this wheel business—well, it doesn’t seem as if she could have had
anything to do with them. If I bring in other people, you may come
across things which you wouldn’t feel justified in keeping to yourself.
That’s my position now—I don’t know if I’m justified in not speaking—I
don’t know if I’m justified in speaking. If I tell you things—I can’t
take them back again. You may think they’re all nonsense, or you may
think they’re so serious that you can’t keep them to yourself. I’ve
thought about it all until I can’t be sure I’m thinking straight. And
I’m frightened about William. You were quite right when you said I
wanted to think it was Emily Salt. I did—I do. She’s a stranger, and
she isn’t right in her head. But now it doesn’t seem as if it could be
Emily.’

Miss Silver inclined her head.

‘You have put it very clearly.’

Katharine took a quick breath.

‘I don’t feel clear. I’ve come back because I’m so frightened about
William. When you’re frightened you can’t think straight.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘You said just now that if you told me certain things, I might feel it
my duty to go to the police. If that would be my duty, would it not be
your duty also?’

A long sighing breath was released. Katharine said.

‘Yes——’

‘Your telling me would not add to your obligation. It would merely serve
to clarify it.’

‘Yes——’

‘And you believe your husband’s life to be in danger.’

A shudder went over Katharine. She said, ‘Yes——’ again. And then, ‘I
don’t know where to begin.’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked, the blue coatee revolved. She said in an
encouraging voice,

‘If you will make a start, I think you will find it is easier to go on.
It is the first step which seems so difficult.’

Katharine said, ‘Yes——’ again. She was sitting up very straight with
her hands clasped in her lap. ‘I think I had better begin on the sixth
of December, the day before Mr. Tattlecombe had his accident. I think
I’ve told you William designs toys. They are very good indeed. Up to now
they’ve been making them in a place behind the shop—William, and an old
man, and a boy, and, after I went there, me. Well, of course, they ought
to be much more widely known. I don’t suppose you’ve ever heard of a
firm called Eversleys. They are manufacturers on a big scale. One of the
things they do is toys. William persuaded Mr. Tattlecombe to agree to
his approaching them with a view to getting them to make his Wurzel toys
under licence, and on the sixth of December he had an appointment to go
and see them. It was rather a late appointment—six o’clock. He went
there, and he saw the senior partner’s secretary—her name is Miss
Jones. She has been there for fifteen years, and she is highly
competent. The partners are Cyril and Brett Eversley. They are first
cousins. Miss Jones is Cyril’s secretary. I should say she knew a good
deal more about the business than he does. She saw William, and she told
him that she didn’t think they would be interested in the Wurzel toys. A
few days later she wrote and confirmed this.’

Katharine came to the end of what she had started out to say. She came
to an end, and she stopped.

Miss Silver said, ‘Yes?’ on an enquiring note.

Katharine drew in her breath again.

‘It doesn’t get easier—it gets more difficult.’

‘Nevertheless I beg that you will continue.’

Katharine bent her head. However difficult it was, she must go on—she
knew that. She went on.

‘When William came out into the street he almost ran into someone who
was coming in. He didn’t know who it was, but I do. It was Mr. Davies,
the Eversleys’ head clerk. He has been with them for about thirty years.
When he saw William he nearly dropped down in a faint. He caught at
William’s arm to steady himself. I don’t know what he said—William
couldn’t make anything of it. He held him up till the giddiness went
off. The first thing he really said was, “Who are you?” William said,
“I’m William Smith—Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar, Ellery Street.” Mr. Davies
said “What?” and William repeated it. He wanted Mr. Davies to go in and
sit down, but he wouldn’t. He didn’t want to see anyone, he wanted to
get away. He went to a call-box and rang me up.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘Mr. Davies rang you up?’

‘Yes. I wasn’t in the flat I’m in now—I was in my own flat.’ Her voice
went down low. ‘The telephone bell rang—just like any telephone bell
ringing. I lifted the receiver, and there was Mr. Davies telling me he
had just seen William——’

Miss Silver said, ‘Yes?’

Katharine looked at her, but she didn’t really see her. She saw a room
with a shaded lamp, and her own hand lifting the receiver. She heard Mr.
Davies’ shaken voice. Her own voice shook as his had done.

‘He said, “I’ve just seen Mr. William.” I said, “What do you mean?” He
said, “I took hold of his arm, and it was real. It was in the street
outside the office. I nearly dropped. I took hold of his arm to save
myself, and it felt real. But he didn’t know me—he didn’t know me at
all—not at all.” He kept on repeating that. I said, “You’re not well,”
and he said, “No—it’s been a shock—it’s been a great shock. He didn’t
know me at all—we were there, right under the light, and he didn’t know
what I said. I’d some kind of idea I was seeing a spirit—but his arm
felt real. I said, ‘Who are you?’ and he said, ‘William
Smith—Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar, Ellery Street.’ That’s what he said. I
couldn’t have thought of that if he hadn’t said it, could I? He said he
was William Smith, Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar, Ellery Street. And he
didn’t know me at all. He wanted to take me into the office, but I
wouldn’t go. I didn’t want to see anyone—I wanted to get away. When I’d
walked a little, I thought about you.”’ She took a long breath. ‘I told
him to go home and rest.’ She stopped again.

Miss Silver did not speak. Her needles clicked above the pale blue wool.

Katharine said, ‘I don’t know how I lived until the morning. I knew I
couldn’t do anything till then—the shops would all be shut—I knew I
must wait. I went down to Ellery Street at half-past nine. The Toy
Bazaar had a window full of William’s toys. As soon as I saw them I knew
that Mr. Davies hadn’t made any mistake. William always liked drawing
queer animals. There was a draper’s shop on one side and a cleaner’s on
the other. The girl in the cleaner’s was quite pleased to talk—it’s a
boring job waiting for people to come in. I asked about having something
dyed and looked at patterns. And then I asked about the toys in the
window next door, and she told me all about William, and how he’d worked
the business up. She said he’d been in a Prisoners of War camp with Mr.
Tattlecombe’s grandson who died there, and she said he’d lost his
memory, and Mr. Tattlecombe thought the world of him. I asked her
whether there would be any chance of getting a job there, and she said
there might be. She thought they were short-handed. So I went home and
made my plans.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘What plans did you make?’

Katharine smiled—a brief, rather tremulous smile.

‘I rang up a friend who was looking for a flat and told her she could
have mine. And I rang up another friend who was just going abroad and
asked if I could have hers. I told her I didn’t want anyone to know
where I was, and she said, “All right.” I told my relations I had let my
flat and was taking a job, and I didn’t say where. And I wrote to Mr.
Davies at his private address and told him not to say anything to
anybody, because it was my affair and I wanted to manage it my own way.
In the afternoon I drove to Victoria Station with my luggage, and when
the taxi had gone I took another to Carol’s flat in Rasselas Mews. And
then I went to Ellery Street to ask if they wanted an assistant at
Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar. And it was Thursday—I’d forgotten all about
Thursday being early closing in those outlying places. All the shops
were shut. I didn’t feel as if I could bear it, but there just wasn’t
anything to be done. I had to go back and get through another perfectly
interminable night. That was the night Mr. Tattlecombe had his
accident—but of course I didn’t know about it until afterwards. That
left them very short-handed indeed. In the morning I went back to Ellery
Street and went into the shop to ask if they wanted an assistant. There
was a Miss Cole there.’ Katharine gave a little laugh. ‘She didn’t like
me a bit—it stuck out all over her. And then’—her voice checked,
steadied, and went on again—‘William came in.’




                          Chapter Twenty-four


There was rather a long silence. Then Katharine leaned forward and said,

‘He didn’t know me, but—he fell in love with me. He didn’t remember me,
but he remembered loving me.’

Miss Silver looked across her knitting and smiled the smile which had
won her many confidences, many friends. The dowdy little governess
wasn’t there any more. Intelligence, understanding, a sustaining and
comprehensive sympathy, just blotted her out. It was rather like seeing
the light come through a stained-glass window.

Katharine experienced a sense of release. It wasn’t going to be
difficult any more. She could say anything, and what she said would be
understood—she could let go and say just what came into her mind.
Everything in her was quieted. She said,

‘Miss Cole was horrified because William engaged me on the spot. She
couldn’t help seeing that he had fallen for me, and she thought I was a
vamp. I went to work next day. William and I painted toys together. We
were frightfully happy.’

‘Yes?’

‘I gave my real name, Katharine Eversley. Cyril and Brett are—distant
cousins. Even the name didn’t mean anything to William—things that
happened before ’42 just don’t exist. But he fell in love with me all
over again.’

Miss Silver looked at her.

‘Why did you not tell him?’

The bright colour came up.

‘How could I? He’d forgotten me. I couldn’t say, “You loved me—you’ve
forgotten.” That was at first. Then when I knew that he was loving me
again, I thought if he remembered that, he would remember me. Every time
he kissed me I thought he would remember. And then I didn’t care. I only
wanted us to have this time together. You see, when he knows who he is
there will be a lot of business, a lot of worry. It’s going to be a
shock to the people who thought he was dead, and who won’t be
particularly glad to find that he is alive——’ She broke off with that
startled glance. ‘I oughtn’t to have said that—I don’t know that it
would be like that. Things come into your mind—you can’t help it. If
you put them into words it makes too much of them. You see, I haven’t
anything to go on. I don’t know that they wouldn’t be glad, so I
oughtn’t to say so.’

Miss Silver gave her slight cough.

‘You are speaking of Mr. Cyril and Mr. Brett Eversley?’

‘Yes.’

‘Mrs. Smith—who is your husband?’

The startled look was intensified. Katharine coloured vividly, but she
answered at once and with complete simplicity.

‘He is William Eversley. He is their first cousin.’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘I thought so. Pray continue.’

‘His father was the eldest of the three brothers who built up the firm.
He was the senior partner and the driving force, and he owned sixty per
cent of the shares. He didn’t marry till he was fifty, which is why
William is so much younger than Cyril and Brett. He died in ’38, when
William was twenty-three and had been a partner for a couple of years.
William joined up in ’39, and was missing in ’42. The firm turned over
to Government work during the war, and I don’t think they’ve been very
successful in getting back to ordinary conditions. Cyril isn’t a
business man. He likes a quiet, pleasant life without too much to do. He
paints in watercolour rather well, he collects eighteenth-century
miniatures and snuff-boxes, he fancies himself at interior decoration.
His house at Evendon is really very charming. He has always given me the
impression that business bores him to tears.’ She paused, frowned, and
went on again. ‘Brett’s different—younger—plenty of vitality, but——’
she laughed a little—‘I should say he thought the business was there to
provide him with an income. He enjoys himself a lot—has a great many
friends, gets asked everywhere. He is very goodlooking, very charming,
very good company.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘You have quite a gift for description.’

Katharine took a quick breath.

‘Have I? I’ve known them all my life. My father was an Eversley too,
quite a distant cousin. But he and my mother were killed in a train
smash when I was a baby, and William’s father and mother brought me up.
I’m two years younger.’

Miss Silver got up and went over to the writing-table, a massive block
with pedestal drawers and leather top. From a drawer on the left she
extracted an exercise-book with a bright blue cover, spread it out flat
upon the blotting-pad, and wrote. Presently she looked up.

‘It is as well to fix facts firmly whilst they are fresh in the mind.
Perhaps you will now give me some particulars about Miss Jones.’

She turned back to the exercise-book to write the name, adding the
words: ‘Secretary—15 years’ service—efficient. Interviews William
Smith December 6th.’

When she had finished she read them aloud.

‘Is there anything you would care to add?’

Katharine had come over to the table. She leaned upon it lightly with
one hand and said in a troubled voice,

‘Care? Oh, yes. I don’t like her—I never have. It’s always easy to say
things about people you don’t like.’

Miss Silver sat with the pencil in her hand.

‘Pray sit down, Mrs. Eversley.’ Then, as Katharine took the chair which
so many clients had occupied, ‘Why do you not like Miss Jones?’

She got a sudden flash of humour.

‘She doesn’t like me—she never has. I’ll tell you about her as fairly
as I can. I don’t know how old she is, but she doesn’t look it. She’s
very—handsome. She’s Cyril’s secretary and she runs him. I shouldn’t
think there’s anything about the business she doesn’t know, and of
course that gives her a pull. She’s efficient. Cyril never could be, and
Brett doesn’t bother. The result is you are apt to get the impression
that she runs the firm. In a secretary it’s irritating. You must allow
for that, because if someone irritates you, it just isn’t possible to be
quite fair.’

‘Miss Jones irritates you?’

Katharine nodded.

‘Intensely. She has always treated me as if I was an illiterate black
beetle, if you know what I mean. It doesn’t encourage a friendly
feeling.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘What are her relations with Mr. Cyril and Mr. Brett?’

Katharine lifted her hand from the table and let it fall again.

‘I don’t know. There was some talk about her and Brett a year or two
ago. He took her about a bit. I ran into them at a road-house once.
Stupid, because that sort of thing always gets out. I don’t suppose
there was anything in it. And he’s a bachelor—it would be nobody’s
business. Cyril’s wife died five years ago. His daughter married last
year. He isn’t the flirtatious kind, but he depends on Miss Jones a good
deal.’

‘Will you give me her Christian name?’

‘Mavis.’

Miss Silver wrote it down.

‘And now, Mrs. Eversley, will you continue. What makes you think that
Mr. William Eversley’s return would inconvenience the firm?’

‘He inherited the controlling interest—sixty per cent of the shares.’

‘Yes. What happened to them when his death was presumed?’

‘Half of them were divided between Cyril and Brett—half of them came to
me in trust. There was also government stock.’

‘Who were the trustees?’

‘Cyril, Brett, and Admiral Holden, who is a very old friend of the
family.’

‘And have you been getting your dividends?’

‘There was a hold-up in the autumn. It left me rather short of money.
Admiral Holden had been ill for nearly two years—nobody thought he was
going to live. Then he made a marvellous recovery. When I heard I wrote
to him about my affairs, and he came bumbling up to town to see the
Eversleys. That was about ten days ago. The first thing that happened
was that my dividends were paid in—the whole lot of them. Cyril asked
me to lunch with Brett and Bunny Holden at his club. Everyone was
charming. Afterwards Bunny and I went off in a taxi together, and he
told me he thought there had been a bit of a mix-up, but it would be all
right now. He told me he gathered that Mr. Davies had muddled the
accounts—that he’d been getting past his work for some time, and that
his death had left things in a state of confusion.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘That was the elderly clerk who encountered Mr. William Eversley after
his visit to the firm on the sixth of December?’

‘Yes. I was very much upset. I didn’t know that he was dead. After I
wrote and told him not to say anything about seeing William I had no
communication with him. I didn’t want anyone to know where I was or what
I was doing. But he never got my letter.’

Miss Silver looked at her searchingly.

‘How do you know that, Mrs. Eversley?’

‘It wouldn’t be delivered until the evening of the seventh. He never got
it. I ought to have told him not to tell anyone when he rang up, but I
didn’t think about it. I didn’t think about anything except William.’

‘When did Mr. Davies die?’

‘On the seventh of December. Bunny didn’t know, but as soon as I got in
I rang up Eversleys. I got Miss Jones. She said oh, yes, Mr. Davies was
dead. She wasn’t very forthcoming, but I pressed her. I wanted to know
what had happened, and when he died. When she saw I was going on until I
got what I wanted she went away, and came back and said that the last
day Mr. Davies was at the office would be the seventh of December. He
was knocked down in the street on the way home and died without
recovering consciousness.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘How extremely shocking!’

Katharine made an impulsive movement.

‘Miss Silver—all these accidents—I can’t believe in them! Can you? On
the sixth of December William goes to Eversleys and Mr. Davies
recognizes him. On the seventh Mr. Davies goes to the office as usual.
We don’t know what he said or whom he said it to—Cyril—Brett—Miss
Jones. On his way home he is knocked down and killed. At half-past ten
that night Mr. Tattlecombe is “struck down” outside the Toy Bazaar. With
the light the way it was, it would be easy to mistake him for William.
Then William is attacked twice. And now there’s this business of the
wheel on his car. I just can’t believe in a run of accidents like that.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘Very succinct—very clearly put. But the last three can hardly be
described as accidents. Do you want my advice?’

‘That is why I am here.’

The small nondescript-coloured eyes contemplated her gravely.

‘Tell your husband what you have just been telling me.’

Katharine caught her breath.

‘I know—I must. I wanted just a little longer. I thought—I hoped—he
would remember.’

Miss Silver said, ‘How long have you been married?’

Katharine’s colour rose, pure and bright.

‘Last Saturday——’

Miss Silver stopped her.

‘I do not allude to any ceremony you may have gone through then. I think
you married Mr. William Eversley in ’39, did you not?’

Katharine said, ‘July. We had a month, and then one or two short leaves.
He was missing in ’42. How did you know?’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘There were a number of indications. That party at the Luxe at which
Frank Abbott remembers seeing your husband—he spoke of a girl in a gold
dress. That was you, was it not?’

‘Yes. We got engaged that evening.’

‘A cousin of Frank Abbott’s was there—a Miss Mildred Abbott and her
fiancé. She is now Mrs. Darcy. She has just come home from the East. She
remembers the party, and Bill as they all seemed to call him, and you in
your gold dress. She couldn’t remember his surname or your names, but
she said an aunt of hers wrote afterwards and told her she had been at
your wedding. She said she had given you a tea-set.’

Katharine nodded.

‘Old Mrs. Willoughby Abbott. It was a lovely set. And all that crowd
called him Bill. I never did.’

‘When you spoke of _Frank_ Abbott I knew that you must at least have
been in contact with friends of his.’

‘Yes—it was a slip. I never really met him, but I knew a good many of
his friends and relations. There was a lot of chaff and talk about his
being a policeman. His grandmother, Lady Evelyn Abbott, was supposed to
have cut him out of her will, but the young ones all thought it was a
joke. Miss Silver, you say I ought to tell William, but don’t you see
how difficult it’s going to be if the Eversleys just dig their toes in
and say they don’t recognize him? They might, you know.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘From that point of view the second marriage ceremony was unwise.’

Katharine gave a shaky little laugh.

‘William wouldn’t have felt married without it. And think how shocked
Mr. Tattlecombe would have been.’

Miss Silver looked grave.

‘I quite see your point of view. But you have taken a good deal of
responsibility, Mrs. Eversley. It was, in fact, this readiness to take
responsibility on his behalf which convinced me that your marriage was
no new thing.’

Katharine said slowly, ‘I thought when we were married he would remember
that we had been married before. If he got his memory back it would be
all quite easy. There’s just one more thing I can do. He has a recurrent
dream—he’s had it all these years. It’s about a house in a village
street—three steps up and into a panelled hall, and a staircase going
up on the right, with the newel-posts carved with the four
Evangelists—a lion and an ox at the bottom, and an eagle and a man at
the top. I thought if I could take him down there and into the house, he
might remember.’

‘It is a real house, with associations for him?’

‘Yes. It belonged to his grandmother. We used to go there a lot when we
were children. She left it to William, and he left it to me. It’s at
Ledstow. It’s called the Cedar House. We spent our honeymoon there. Mr.
Tattlecombe has given us Saturday afternoon off. I want to take William
down there this weekend and see if he remembers.’ She stopped, her eyes
shining, her look intent. ‘I think it’s a real chance. He wouldn’t have
that dream about it if it didn’t mean something to him—something
special. It’s as if it was the one sensitive spot. I’ve got a sort of
feeling that his memory might come back to him there.’

Miss Silver said, ‘Yes. These cases of loss of memory are strange.
Sometimes a mental or a physical shock will bring the lost faculty back.
Your plan is, I think, worth trying. But pray do not be too much
disappointed if it does not succeed. In that case I must urge you most
strongly to lose no more time. Your husband has a right to decide for
himself what is best for him to do. His own family and his own firm are
involved. You cannot continue to take the sole responsibility.’

Katharine said ‘No——’ on a long sigh. It turned into a laugh. ‘I
shan’t have much choice about telling him. Everybody in Ledstow will
know him at sight. William Smith will be an exploded myth from the
moment my Mrs. Perkins sets eyes on him. She lives next door and comes
in and does for me when I’m there, and she has known William since he
was five years old. But you’re quite right—he has got to know. Only it
would be so much better if he hadn’t got to be told.’

Miss Silver gave a short, brisk cough.

‘Very true. Meanwhile there is something he should do without delay. He
should inform the local police of the fact that the wheel of his car had
been loosened. They will make the usual routine enquiries. It is
possible that the person who tampered with the wheel was observed. In
what kind of street is the garage?’

‘It isn’t a garage at all, only a shed where a local builder keeps odds
and ends—ladders amongst other things. And you can’t call it a street.
It’s just a narrow cut running along the back yards of the houses
fronting on Ellery Street.’

Miss Silver looked attentive.

‘Not the kind of place which a stranger would frequent. The person we
are looking for may have attracted attention. By all means get your
husband to notify the police. In the second place, I would like your
permission to talk the whole matter over with Frank Abbott.’

‘Oh, no!’

Miss Silver held up her pencil in a hortatory manner.

‘Pray think again, Mrs. Eversley. There have been three attempts on your
husband’s life, an attempt on Mr. Tattlecombe of which your husband may
have been the real object, and a fatal accident to Mr. Davies—the day
after he had recognised him as William Eversley. I am not saying from
what quarter these attacks have come. By changing your address you may
have obscured your own connection with William Smith for a time, but it
must be clear to you that anyone who is taking a serious interest in his
identity with William Eversley cannot remain long in ignorance of the
part you have undertaken to play. As soon as that is known, and as soon
as it is known that you have gone through a form of marriage with him
and are living as his wife, it will be evident to the person or persons
who have been attempting his life that the time remaining to them is
short. He, or they, must know that you will not remain silent. As soon
as you speak and William Smith comes forward as William Eversley they
cannot any longer hope to act in the dark. Attention will be focused
upon anyone who has an interest in resisting his claim. Do you not see
that the sooner that claim is made, the harder it will be to make any
fresh attempt upon his life? Where a common street accident to William
Smith could very well pass unsuspected of being anything more than an
accident, his sudden death immediately after he has claimed to be
William Eversley whose return from the dead was likely to involve his
relatives in a good deal of financial embarrassment could hardly fail to
attract the attention of the police.’

Katharine said, ‘Yes.’

Miss Silver laid down her pencil with an air of finality.

‘It will, I think, be quite a good plan for you to leave town tomorrow
for the weekend. Pray do not tell anyone where you are going. Meanwhile
I should like to talk the matter over with Frank Abbott. I do not care
to accept the responsibility alone. I think you may rest assured that no
action will be taken without reference to your husband and yourself. If
Frank thinks as I do he may discuss the matter with Chief Inspector
Lamb, a most worthy and dependable officer. He has great experience, and
I feel sure that you need not be afraid that he will authorise any
precipitate action. Routine procedure may, however, produce some
interesting evidence. Have I your permission?’

Katharine looked at her for a full long minute. Then she said,

‘Yes.’




                          Chapter Twenty-five


They drove down to Ledstow on the grey Saturday afternoon. Katharine
need not have troubled herself to find excuses for starting late.
William brought the car up to the Mews and spent considerably more than
an hour in going over everything that could be gone over. She didn’t
want to arrive in daylight, and by the time they started it was quite
certain that if they made Ledstow before nightfall they would be
fortunate. They talked a little until they were clear of the London
belt. William had thought it quite a good plan to let the local police
know that the car had been tampered with. He had gone round to the
police station before fetching it. He talked about his interview with a
monumental sergeant.

‘He made me feel about ten years old——’ he branched off suddenly—‘I
wonder what I was doing when I was ten. You’d think you’d get used to
not remembering anything, but you don’t. It’s running into a blank wall
when you know there ought to be a window there. Sometimes it makes me
feel as if I was going to bang my head.’

‘Does it?’

He gave a quick nod. After a moment he said,

‘You wouldn’t think I’d mind so much now. I mean you wouldn’t think I
could mind anything now I’ve got you. But I do—I mind worse. It’s
idiotic, isn’t it?’

‘No, I don’t think so. You mean you mind because of me?’

‘Yes. You’ve got a sort of pig in a poke, haven’t you? And then if we
had children, I’d mind awfully for them.’

She said, ‘You’ll remember.’

He turned a momentary look on her, and she saw the trouble in his eyes.

‘Remember—what?’ he said. ‘Perhaps I oughtn’t to have married you.’

Katharine put her hand on his knee.

‘Don’t be stupid, darling—you’ll remember all right. And it won’t be
anything to worry about, you’ll see.’

They came clear of the houses and the traffic and drove on.

Afterwards Katharine looked back and thought what a strange drive it had
been—the air mild and full of moisture, mist rising from the fields,
and cloud hanging low—the world like a silver-point drawing, no colour
anywhere, grey cloud and leafless trees, hedgerows hung with drops like
crystal beads, a river streaked with silver and lead, mist on the fields
like smoke rising.

William said once, ‘It won’t turn to fog till after dark,’ but for most
of the way neither of them spoke. There was a curious sense of being cut
off, not from one another, but from the familiar shape of things.
Presently there was no distance. Outlines began to blur. The damp in the
air frosted the windscreen and had to be wiped away. The road which
Katharine knew so well took on a strangeness, like something remembered
but not quite real. She had stopped planning what to do and what to say.
It wasn’t any use. The road would take them to the house, and when she
got there she would know what to say and what to do. She remembered
driving down to the Cedar House with William after their July
wedding—July 1939, and everyone thinking and talking of war—a bright,
clear day and the July sun sloping to the west over fields almost ripe
for harvesting. ‘Thrust in thy sickle and reap, for the harvest of the
earth is ripe.’ That was in the Bible, in the Book of Revelations. It
had been a bitter and a bloody reaping. She looked back. There had been
an agony of love, an agony of parting, a long-drawn agony of slowly
fading hope. Now they were here together in a mist, travelling the old
road to the old house on a January afternoon.

They came through Ledlington with the last of the daylight and the lamps
shining in the streets. William drove right through the town and out on
the other side without a check, and when they were clear of the straggle
of new houses which has sprung up all round the old town he drove
straight on over the seven miles of lonely road into the middle of the
village street and stopped there, the headlights of the car making a
straight shining beam in which the mist dazzled like motes in the sun.

Katharine said, ‘We’re here.’

He didn’t answer her. He got down and opened the door. His arm came
round her. Then he said,

‘I’ll just put the car away. I won’t be long.’

Her heart stood still. A July evening—confetti in her hat—sunlight
slanting down the village street—the new, shining car—William opening
the door and putting his arm round her as she got out—‘I’ll just put
the car away. I won’t be long....’

The garage was across the street, the doors open, waiting not for the
new shining Alvis but for William’s old tin kettle assembled bit by bit
from the scrap-heap. She smiled in the dark, held his arm for a moment,
and went up the three steps to the Cedar House. She saw William back the
car and turn in as he had done a hundred times.

She lifted the latch of the door and went into the house. The lights
were on in the hall. She turned them out, to leave only one. Then she
crossed to a door at the far end and went down a stone-paved passage to
the kitchen.

Mrs. Perkins, stout and rosy in a blue dress and a white apron, turned
round from the range.

‘Oh, Miss Kathy—and I never heard you come!’

Katharine kissed her and stood holding both her hands.

‘Perky darling, I told you I’d got a big surprise for you, and I’ve only
got about half a minute to tell you what it is. You won’t faint, will
you?’

Mrs. Perkins chuckled.

‘I’m not the fainting kind. It don’t do when you’re as stout as me.
Who’s going to pick you up when you weigh as much as what I do?’ Then,
with a sudden change of voice, ‘Oh, Miss Kathy, what is it?’

Katharine said, ‘William——’

‘Oh, my dear—you’ve heard something?’

Katharine nodded. She had stared dry-eyed at the telegram which told her
William was missing. Now the tears sprang unchecked. Her eyes shone with
them. They ran down and were salt on her quivering lips.

‘He’s come back——’




                           Chapter Twenty-six


Katharine was in the hall again. She dropped her fur coat on a black and
gold lacquer chair under the portrait of great-great-uncle Ambrose
Talbot in the uniform he had worn at Waterloo—tight white breeches,
scarlet coat, high stock, and a fair, almost girlish face—not quite
eighteen when the picture was painted, after Napoleon had gone to St.
Helena and his shadow had passed from the world. The Cedar House had
belonged to Talbots ever since William Talbot built it for a country
lodging nearly four hundred years ago. It took its name from the great
cedar he had planted at the end of the lawn, and from the panelling
which kept moth away and to this day diffused its own faint sweetness
everywhere.

William’s grandmother was the last of the long Talbot line. He himself
had the name of its founder. He was William Talbot Eversley. The house,
and its portraits, and its memories were his. There were a lot of
portraits, a lot of memories—a judge in scarlet robe and a portentous
Georgian wig—an admiral with a pig-tail and a brown crumpled face,
holding a spy-glass in his hand and looking out of the picture with
William’s eyes. The girl in the pink dress of the middle eighteenth
century was Amanda Talbot who made a romantic runaway marriage with a
black-browed Highland Jacobite and lived with him in exile after the
’45. She had lovely, arch eyes and a sweet smiling mouth. Her portrait
hung above the fireplace. A log fire burned there. Katharine stood by it
and waited. The door was latched but not locked. Presently it would
swing in. It was all very quiet, very familiar—the stairway going up on
the other side of the hall, the door to the dining-room just beyond the
stair foot. On the other side, behind the wall with the chimney-breast,
the drawing-room, where the panelling had been painted ivory-white and
the china which Gran used to show them when they were children was
ranged against it in cabinets of Amanda’s date.

Katharine’s heart beat fast, then quieted. There was nothing to be
troubled about. William was coming home.

When the door opened she went to meet him. He took her in his arms and
held her without speaking. It was one of those moments for which there
are no words. When at last he lifted his head and spoke, it was like
coming out of a dream. Something slipped away from them to join the
other memories of the house. He said her name, and then,

‘This was the place to come to. It always did feel like coming home.’
With his arm still round her, he looked across her shoulder to the
glowing bed of the fire where the logs were heaped, one a shell,
red-hot, another black against tongues of flame from below. His voice
broke on a half laugh as he said,

‘That looks good. But what a climate! Nobody would think it was July!’

July—and they had driven here through the winter dusk. Half-past five
o’clock, and outside the January night had closed down. Katharine drew
away lest he should feel that she was shaking. She waited with caught
breath for what he would say next. It came in his most cheerful voice.

‘Gosh—I’m hungry! I hope Perky’s got something for us. It’s not too
late, is it?’ He turned his wrist, glanced at the watch on it, and
exclaimed, ‘What time is it? This thing’s stopped at twenty to six. It
must be all of ten o’clock.’

‘Why?’

‘Pitch-dark outside. We must have made very bad time.’

The fair brows drew together in a puzzled frown, then relaxed.

‘It doesn’t matter as long as we are here. Go and see what Perky can do
about it. I’ll just take our cases upstairs and get a wash.’

Katharine went through to the kitchen and found Mrs. Perkins filling a
kettle and weeping into the sink.

‘Perky, listen—you mustn’t cry.’

‘Oh, Miss Kathy my dear, it’s because I’m so glad.’

She set the kettle down and put out both her hands. Katharine took them
and held them hard.

‘Perky—_listen!_ I told you he didn’t remember anything before ’42.
_Well, he does now._ It’s the last few years that have gone. At least I
think they have—I don’t know. But he thinks it’s July. He thinks we’ve
just been married. He thinks we’ve come here for our honeymoon, and he
thinks it’s ten o’clock at night because it’s dark outside. Perky,
you’ve got to help.’

Mrs. Perkins gazed at her.

‘What can I do, my dear?’

Katharine’s voice trembled into laughter.

‘He says he’s hungry. He wants to know what you can give us for supper.’

The rosy face cleared.

‘Then you’d best let me be getting on with it. There’s soup all ready to
hot up, and a nice pie. Would he like it cold, or shall I put it in the
oven?’

‘We’ll ask him.’

‘And a chocolate shape I made—the way you’ve always liked it, Miss
Kathy.’

‘Lovely!’

And then William came in, kissed Mrs. Perkins as Katharine had done, and
sat on the corner of the kitchen table as he had been scolded for doing
as long as Katharine could remember. He laughed and said,

‘Horrid weather you’ve conjured up for us. I couldn’t see my hand before
my face coming over the road, and Katharine couldn’t see her wedding
ring. Has she shown it to you? She’s frightfully proud of being a
married woman.’ He took her left hand and held it up. ‘Looks good,
doesn’t it? Sounds good too—Mrs. William Eversley! And, Perky darling,
it’s not a bit romantic, but we’re simply starving. I can’t think why we
took so long to get here. STARVED TO DEATH ON HIS WEDDING DAY is going
to be my epitaph if I don’t get something to eat pretty soon.’

Mrs. Perkins rallied nobly.

‘Then you’ll have to get out of my kitchen, Mr. William and off of that
table, or you won’t get nothing.’

It was the strangest evening. They went into the drawing-room, and
William made love to her as the young William of years ago had done when
life was the gayest, most carefree adventure in the world. And then
suddenly in the middle of it all he fell silent, looked puzzled, and
walked away from her down to the far end of the room where faded
sea-green curtains screened the door into the garden and the casement
windows on either side of it. He parted them and stood there looking
out. What Katharine got was the impression that night looked in. It was
certain that he could see nothing, unless it were the picture stamped
indelibly upon mind and memory through all his growing years. Standing
behind him, Katharine could see it too—the small formal terrace with
its stone jars which in July would be brimming over with bloom, then the
lavender hedge, the two tall myrtle-bushes, the even, velvety lawn, and
the great cedar tree. As she touched him, he turned abruptly and said,

‘It’s all right, isn’t it—the cedar wasn’t blitzed?’

She was almost too startled to answer, but she managed to keep her voice
level.

‘No, it’s all right. You’ll see it tomorrow.’

The puzzled look was intensified.

‘See what?’

‘The cedar. You asked if it was all right.’

‘Did I? Why shouldn’t it be?’ He went over to one of the china-cabinets
and stood there. ‘Remember how Gran taught us to feel the glaze? You
know, it’s an awfully odd thing—I can remember with the tips of my
fingers just the difference between those plates and these cups. She
wouldn’t ever let us touch them unless she was there. Funny to think how
many people have touched them since they were made, and now they’re
ours.’

When Mrs. Perkins summoned them to the dining-room it all seemed
stranger still. Gran watched them from her picture on the
chimney-breast. Amory’s masterpiece—Gran at ninety, with a lace scarf
over the white curls she had been so proud of, a lace shawl over her
blue dress, her face still vividly alive, her eyes still blue. She sat
in her big chair and watched the room. To Katharine her look said, ‘You
needn’t think you’ll ever get rid of me. I love you all too much.’ She
watched them now.

All through the meal William talked eagerly, cheerfully, about what they
would do in the garden.

‘I saw a place where they have rows of white lilies growing in front of
a dark hedge—it looked pretty good. I thought we might try it down at
the bottom against the arbor vitae. What do you think? I’m rather keen
on lilies. There’s a good apricot-coloured sort too—they grow it a lot
in the north—I’d like to have some of those. It’s a pity it’s too far
for me to go up and down every day, but we could do weekends in the
summer. I’d like to play about with the garden. I’ve got an idea for a
pool—water-lilies and things. Wait till we’ve finished, and I’ll do a
sketch for you.’ He looked at her suddenly and laughed, ‘It’s going to
be fun, isn’t it?’

When he talked like that he might have been William Smith, or he might
have been William Eversley, or a third William walking the debatable
ground between the other two. She encouraged him to go on talking about
the garden.

Afterwards, in the drawing-room, she played to him. When they went
upstairs together he said the strangest thing of all. They had reached
the last step, when he halted and stood there looking round him. The arm
about her shoulders dropped to his side, the fair brows drew together.
He said,

‘I had an awfully funny dream about this place. I can’t remember what it
was.’

‘I shouldn’t try.’

He nodded, came up on to the landing, and turned again. His eye went
from the eagle on the right-hand newel-post to the man on the left.

‘It was something about the Evangelists,’ he said slowly.
‘Something—about——’ he gave a sudden laugh—‘I know—I dreamt the man
was Mr. Tattlecombe! Barmy—wasn’t it?’

Katharine said, ‘Quite.’

Still laughing, he put his arm round her and they kissed, and went on
together into the room which was theirs, a long room over the
drawing-room with windows looking down the garden to the cedar tree. It
didn’t matter any longer which of the Williams he was, or which way the
pendulum of his memory swung. He was the William who loved her and whom
she loved. He was the William who had always loved her and would love
her always.




                          Chapter Twenty-seven


William woke up to the sound of the grandfather clock on the landing
striking eight. It had a very deep, solemn note, and he must have waked
just before the first stroke, because he found himself counting up to
eight. He knew he hadn’t missed any of the strokes, because it always
did a sort of whirring grunt before it started to strike, and that was
the first thing he had heard. He was lying on his right side, with the
curtains drawn back from the row of windows which looked towards the
garden. Two of them were open. The sky was a slaty grey. He could see
the upper branches of the cedar stretched out over the garden like black
wings. It isn’t dark at eight o’clock in January, but it isn’t really
light.

He turned and saw Katharine lying beside him with her hands together
under her chin and her hair loose on the pillow. Perhaps it happened at
that moment, or perhaps it had really happened when he was asleep—he
didn’t know, and it didn’t matter—but, turning like that and seeing
Katharine, he was aware that what he had called the blank wall no longer
existed. William Smith remembered William Eversley, and William Eversley
knew all about William Smith. The two halves of his memory had come
together and merged into one. The only thing that wasn’t clear was being
in the German hospital. He remembered everything right up to the time
they were bombed, and he knew he had been in a German hospital, because
he remembered coming out of it labelled William Smith, but the bit
between was as vague as a last year’s dream. It had probably been very
unpleasant, and he decided that he could do very well without it.
Meanwhile there were a lot of things to be sorted out. He began on them
methodically.

There was Katharine—but that had come all right. It mightn’t have,
because of course she might have married someone else. But she hadn’t.
They had married each other all over again. Then there was Eversleys.
That wasn’t so easy. He wondered what Cyril and Brett had made of the
war years and the difficult changeover. He had no very exalted opinion
of either of them when it came to business. Cyril simply hadn’t got it
in him, and Brett didn’t bother. He might have had to of course, but
William didn’t feel very sanguine about it. He wondered what they were
going to say when they knew that he had come back. The family side of
them would be pleased of course, but he thought the business side was
going to take a bit of a knock. It didn’t make it any easier his being
the youngest of the three, and by a good many years. And then he thought
about Miss Jones. She came sliding into his mind as he had seen her at
six o’clock on the evening of December the sixth. There wasn’t the
faintest shadow of a doubt that she had recognized him. Or was there? He
thought about that. He could remember what he used to look like, and he
could remember what he looked like yesterday when he was shaving. He
really hadn’t changed enough to give Miss Jones the benefit of the
doubt. She had known him for at least seven years before he went
missing. Frank Abbott had recognized him after only seeing him once.
Davies—that was old Davies he had blundered into in the street—he had
known him again, just like that, all in a flash under a street-lamp.
Miss Jones must certainly have known him.

He had got to the point where it occurred to him that being dead for
seven years and then coming to life again is bound to complicate other
people’s affairs as well as your own, when Katharine stirred, threw out
a hand, and woke.

Just for a moment she didn’t know where she was. Then William was
hugging her and saying, ‘Darling, wake up—wake up quickly! I’ve
remembered!’

She couldn’t think of anything to say. She felt dazed, and happy, and
safe, because it didn’t really matter about anything as long as William
was there. She said,

‘I _am_ awake.’

‘You’re not! But you’ve got to be! Kath, I’ve remembered!’

She woke right up then.

‘Oh, darling!’

‘Yes. And it’s a pretty kettle of fish, isn’t it—what with our being
bigamists——’

‘We’re not!’

‘My child, we are. A bigamist is someone who goes through a form of
marriage whilst a previous husband or wife is alive. I’m a previous
husband, and you’re a previous wife, and we’re both alive, so we’re
bigamists.’

‘We’re not! It doesn’t matter how often you marry the same person. I
found out in a roundabout sort of way.’

His voice changed.

‘Katharine, why didn’t you tell me?’

‘I wanted you to remember.’

‘Suppose I hadn’t?’

‘I would have told you today anyhow. Miss Silver said I must.’

‘Miss Silver? What did you tell her?’

‘Everything. She seemed to know most of it already.’

‘How could she?’

‘She puts things together. She said I’d got to tell you. And I was going
to, only I hoped you’d remember first—and you have.’

There was a long pause before he said,

‘I didn’t really forget you.’

‘I know you didn’t.’

‘I loved you the minute you came into the shop. I hadn’t ever stopped
loving you. It was there all the time, and then—you came——’ His voice
broke. ‘Katharine, _why_ didn’t you tell me?’

She said very softly, ‘Silly! How could I walk into a shop and say to
William Smith, “You don’t think you’ve ever seen me before, but I’m your
wife”?’ She put her cheek against his. ‘What would Miss Cole have said!’

William thought of several things that Miss Cole might have said. They
laughed together with the sort of laughter which comes like a ripple on
the surface of emotion. It came, and it went. Katharine said,

‘I wanted you to fall in love with me all over again, and when you did I
wanted you to marry me. I thought you would remember then, but you
didn’t, and every day you didn’t it was harder to tell you. But I would
have told you today. It wouldn’t have been fair to let you go on being
William Smith.’

He said slowly, ‘No—it wouldn’t have been fair.’ And then, ‘I say,
Kath, there’s going to be a bit of a mess to clear up. I’ve been
thinking——’

‘Don’t think too much.’

He gave his head the quick impatient shake which had always reminded her
of a dog coming out of the water.

‘I’ve been thinking—that time I went to Eversleys and saw Miss
Jones—she must have known me. Or do you think——’

‘No, I don’t. You haven’t changed a bit. You never have, and I don’t
suppose you ever will.’

Like an echo there came back out of the past her own voice saying on a
note of anger, ‘It’s no use, William never changes!’ It was something
she wanted to do and he wouldn’t let her. She couldn’t remember what it
was, but she could remember being ten years old, and angry, and saying,
‘William never changes!’

She came back to Mr. Davies’ name.

‘Old Davies knew me—at least I suppose he did. He bumped into me in the
street. He nearly dropped, and he asked me who I was.’

‘And you said William Smith, Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar, Ellery Street.
And first he thought you were a ghost, and then he went and found a
call-box and rang me up.’

‘He rang you up?’

She said, ‘That’s how I knew,’ and hid her face against him.

It was a little while before they got back to Miss Jones.

‘You know,’ Katharine said, ‘it was very odd her giving you such a late
appointment. You signed your letter “William Smith”, and I can’t help
thinking that she recognised the “William”. Not enough to be sure, but
enough to make her give you that late appointment when practically
everyone else would have gone. They shut at half-past five nominally.
Mr. Davies used to hang about a bit. That evening he’d forgotten
something and came back, poor old boy.’

‘Why poor old boy?’

‘He’s dead, William.’

‘How?’

‘He had a street accident on December the seventh.’

He repeated the date, ‘December the seventh——’

‘The day after he saw you.’

‘The day after he recognized me?’

‘Yes.’

There was a pause. Then William said,

‘He did recognize me?’

‘Yes. He rang me up and said, “I’ve just seen Mr. William.”’

‘Do you think he said that to anyone else?’

‘I don’t know. He went to the office next day, and he went away in the
evening. On the way home he was knocked down at a street-crossing and
taken to hospital. He never recovered consciousness. I didn’t hear about
it until ten days ago. Bunny told me. It was the day I had extra time
off. I lunched with Cyril. Brett and Bunny were there. There had been a
bit of a hold-up about my money and Bunny had come up to see about it.
We went away together in a taxi, and he told me the money would be all
right now, but to let him know if it wasn’t. They had been telling him
Mr. Davies had muddled things up. William, I can’t forgive them for
that.’

‘Katharine—what are you saying?’

‘They said he was past his work, and that he had muddled up the
accounts. Bunny told me. And he told me that Mr. Davies was dead. I
didn’t know till then. I went back to the flat and rang up Miss Jones.
She told me about the accident, and when I pressed her I got the date.
It was the seventh of December.’

There was a pause. Then he said,

‘Davies came to the office that day?’

‘Yes.’

He began, ‘Do you suppose——’ and then broke off.

Katharine answered what he hadn’t said.

‘I don’t know. I wrote to say not to tell anyone about seeing you. He
would have had my letter that evening, but he never got home. He went to
the office on the seventh. Perhaps he didn’t tell anyone.’ She stopped.
Then after quite a long time she said, ‘Perhaps he did.’




                          Chapter Twenty-eight


On the Saturday afternoon whilst William and Katharine were driving down
to Ledstow Abigail Salt was having tea with Mr. Tattlecombe. He was half
expecting that she would not come, and quite prepared to be in a huff
about it. Influenza or no influenza, he didn’t see why she should dance
attendance on Emily when her own flesh and blood with his leg only just
out of a splint was expecting her. Human nature being what it is, he was
almost disappointed when she turned up punctually to the moment and,
taking off her coat and gloves, went into the little upstairs kitchen to
make the tea—Mrs. Bastable having gone down to Ealing to see her
husband’s eldest sister, who was a retired elementary schoolmistress.

Sipping his first cup, Abel reflected that it was extraordinary how much
better the tea tasted, with the same water, the same tea-leaves, the
same gas stove, and the same pot. Tea made by Abby was and probably
always would be, superior to tea made by Mrs. Bastable. The same thing
with coffee, with soup, with everything. He felt mollified and forgave
her the sin of omission which, after all, she hadn’t committed. Emily
had not been preferred, he himself had not been neglected. Abigail had
made buttered toast of a very superlative kind. He remembered with a
shudder that Mrs. Bastable had offered to make it before she went and
leave it ‘keeping hot’. He had been rather firm with her about that, and
she had departed sniffing.

He ate Abigail’s toast with a good deal of satisfaction whilst she
explained how kind it was of Miss Simpson to come in and keep an eye on
Emily. ‘She was round to enquire last night, and when I mentioned that
you were expecting me today and I didn’t know quite what to do about it,
she offered at once. Ellen Simpson’s a good friend, though I don’t say
she hasn’t got trying ways sometimes, but I suppose we’re all like that.
It isn’t everybody I could leave with Emily, even if she’s pretty much
herself again—up yesterday and most of today, though she hasn’t been
out. But I told her she’d better be lying down in her own room whilst I
was out, and I gave her the wireless. If she wanted anything, I told
her, Ellen would be just across the passage in the parlour and she’d
bring her her tea, but better not try and talk too much—they might get
disagreeing about something.’

This was such a long speech for Abigail that Abel Tattlecombe began to
feel very faintly disturbed. He was no more interested in Ellen Simpson
than he was in Emily Salt. He didn’t mind which of them had been left to
look after the other, and Abby knew it. He wouldn’t have cared if they
had been on desert islands or at the North Pole. Ellen Simpson had
eyebrows that met in the middle, and she always contradicted everybody
flat. When after his wife died she had started agreeing with him, and
Abby had begun asking her to meet him at tea, he had been very much
alarmed, and he had spoken out. Abby couldn’t possibly think that he
wanted to talk about Ellen Simpson.

He took another piece of buttered toast and said,

‘You’ve got something on your mind.’

Mrs. Salt’s fair, fresh-complexioned face remained impassive. The blue
eyes which were so much like Abel’s maintained their quiet gaze. She
lifted her cup, drank from it, and set it down before she answered him.

‘Well, I won’t say I’m not glad to find you alone.’

Abel wagged his head. He could do it quite comfortably now that the
stiffness was gone.

‘You knew very well I was going to be alone. Mrs. Bastable has gone to
see her sister-in-law at Ealing. She will come home in very low spirits
because Miss Bastable always treats her as if she ought to be in the
infants’ class. What have you got on your mind?’ Then, without waiting
for a reply, ‘I suppose it’s Emily.’

‘Well, yes, it is.’

Abel grunted.

‘What’s she been doing?’

‘She has been having influenza. On Tuesday night she was very feverish.
She wandered in her mind and talked a lot of nonsense. I was glad there
wasn’t anyone there to hear her.’

‘What did she say?’

Abigail hesitated.

‘She was out of her head. You can’t take notice of what anyone says when
they are in a fever.’

Abel’s bushy eyebrows twitched. Women—look at them! Look at Abby! Had
she come here on purpose to tell him what Emily had said, or hadn’t she?
Could she get it out without a lot of sticking and fussing? Not a bit of
it! He said crossly,

‘Are you going to tell me what she said?’

There was an answering spark in the eyes that were so much like his own.

‘Yes, I am, but I won’t be bustled. I came here on purpose, but it isn’t
an easy thing to say, and you’ve never liked poor Emily. I’ve had a duty
to her and I’ve done my best. It hasn’t always been easy, and now I’ve
come to the place where I’ve got to think about my duty to others, and
that isn’t easy either—not after all these years of thinking about
Emily first. I’ve come to where I’ve got to speak to someone, and you’re
my brother and you’re mixed up with it.’

Abel Tattlecombe finished his piece of toast and reached for another. He
wasn’t going to let Emily Salt put him off his tea. If the toast wasn’t
eaten hot it would be spoiled, and it was much too good to spoil.

‘What did Emily say?’

Abby wasn’t eating at all. She folded her hands in her lap and looked at
him.

‘I’m going to tell you. But you’ve got to make up your mind to look at
it the way you would if it wasn’t Emily. You’ve got to judge righteous
judgment, Abel, and not just think the way you want to. You’ve never
liked Emily, but you’re a just man, and you’ve not got to let it weigh
with you. You’ve got to judge the way you would if I was telling you
this about somebody else.’

Abel wagged his head.

‘That’s not possible, Abby. You’ve got to judge people according to what
you know about them. There’s things I know about Emily. If I’ve got to
use my judgment about her, it’s no use telling me I’ve got to put those
things out of my head, because I don’t believe the Lord means us to do
that, and anyhow it can’t be done. But I’ll do my best to be fair.’

Abigail gave a quiet sigh. Abel always had been set in his ways. She
said,

‘Well, I’ll tell you. And you mustn’t make too much of it, for she was
clean out of her head. She woke up crying out, and when I went to her
she didn’t know me—only stared and said, “I did it—I did it.” So I
said, “I’ll get you a drink, my dear.” But when I came back with it she
was talking nineteen to the dozen. All a lot of rubbish it sounded
like.’

The picture came up in her mind as she spoke—Emily wild enough to
frighten you, with her eyes fixed and burning, and a hot, shaking hand.
She hadn’t been frightened at the time—she had known too many sick
people for that—but when she looked back it frightened her a little
more each time.

‘What did she say, Abby?’

She could give the words, but she could never give the horrid way they
had come—sometimes in a cold whisper that chilled your blood,
sometimes, and quite suddenly, in a scream which made you feel thankful
there wasn’t anyone else in the house. Under that habitual look of calm
Abigail Salt was deeply perturbed. She said in her quiet voice,

‘She was angry about your will.’

‘She had no call to know anything about it.’

Abigail nodded.

‘She heard you telling me. I couldn’t get her to see that it was all
right for me, and nothing to do with her. She’s got the kind of mind
that takes hold of things and can’t let go. She got worked up to feel
that William Smith was doing me an injury—and her.’

Abel continued to eat buttered toast. He said with angry contempt,

‘She’s crazy! You’re not telling me what she said.’

Abigail sighed again.

‘I’m trying to make you understand.’

He pushed over his cup, and she filled it. Even with the trouble she was
in, she took care that it should be just to his liking. If it came to
that, she wasn’t in any hurry to tell him what Emily had said. She
wouldn’t be telling him at all if it wasn’t that her conscience wouldn’t
let her hold it back.

He sipped from his newly filled cup, fixed his eyes upon her severely,
and said,

‘Now, Abby.’




                          Chapter Twenty-nine


Miss Silver had had a busy two days. On Saturday morning, after a short
telephone conversation, she put on her hat and coat and went round to
New Scotland Yard, where she was received by Sergeant Abbott and
presently conducted by him into the presence of Chief Detective
Inspector Lamb.

Frank Abbott, as always, derived a sardonic amusement from the ensuing
ritual. Having met as old friends, with a hearty handshake on one side
and a ladylike one on the other, Miss Silver hoped that the Chief
Inspector was well, and enquired after his family.

‘And Mrs. Lamb? I trust she is in very good health... And your
daughters? Lily’s little boy must be at a most delightful age.’

His daughters were the Chief Inspector’s weakness. He permitted himself
to expatiate on the infant talents of little Ernie.

‘They would call him after me, and they say he looks like me too, poor
little beggar.’

Miss Silver beamed.

‘He could not, I am sure, have a worthier ambition. And your second
daughter, Violet? Her engagement——’

Lamb shook his head.

‘Broken off—and just as well, if you ask me. Naval officer and a nice
enough chap, but when he’d been away two years and come back they didn’t
want to go on with it. She’s got a good confidential job at the
Admiralty, and too many friends to want to make up her mind again in a
hurry.’

‘And Myrtle?’

His youngest daughter was the core of Lamb’s heart.

‘Wants to train as a nurse,’ he said. ‘Her mother worries over it.
Thinks she’ll catch something, but I tell her nurses don’t.’

Miss Silver opined that it was a noble profession. They came to business
with a ‘Well now, what can we do for you?’ and one of her delicate
coughs.

Seated in an upright chair, her own back as straight, her neatly shod
feet in black woollen stockings and Oxford shoes planted side by side
upon the office carpet, her hands in their black knitted gloves folded
in the lap of a well worn cloth coat, a little tippet of elderly
yellowish fur about her neck, and a hat of several years’ standing
enlivened by a bunch of purple pansies on her head, Miss Silver gave her
whole attention to the case of William Smith.

‘I find myself in a difficult situation,’ she said.

‘Well, what can we do to help you?’

This was Lamb at his most accessible. There had been times in the past
when it was he who had been the recipient of help which, however
tactfully proffered, had slightly ruffled his temper and their
relations. It was not disagreeable to have Miss Silver asking for
assistance.

She said, ‘You are so kind,’ and then got briskly to her case.

‘I have some reason to believe that an elderly clerk of the name of
Davies was murdered on the seventh of December last. The death followed
on a street accident after which he was taken to hospital and is said
not to have recovered consciousness. I believe that he was pushed. Here
is a memorandum of his place of employment, his private address, and the
hospital to which he was taken. I should like to know whether he said
anything at all before he died, and I should like to see a transcript of
the evidence at the inquest.’

Lamb turned his eyes upon her. Brown in colour and slightly protuberant,
they had been compared by his irreverent subordinate to the sweets known
as bull’s eyes. He asked,

‘Why do you think he was murdered?’

‘He had just recognized someone who had been missing for seven years,
and whose return may prove to be a serious embarrassment to the firm for
which he was working.’

The Chief Inspector’s face assumed a tolerant expression.

‘Well now, I should call that a bit far-fetched. There are quite enough
accidents to elderly people without calling in murder to account for
them.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘That is very true. But in this case the life of the person recognised
by Mr. Davies has been attempted, certainly on three, and possibly on a
fourth occasion. One of these attempts was witnessed by Sergeant
Abbott.’

Lamb shifted in his chair, brought a refrigerating gaze to bear upon
that elegant young man, and said in tones of disfavour,

‘So you’re mixed up in this, are you? I might have known it!’

‘Well, sir——’

Miss Silver interposed.

‘Permit me, Chief Inspector——’

She presented the case of William Smith in as short and concise a manner
as was possible—the loss of memory and identity; the recognition by Mr.
Davies, by Katharine, by Frank Abbott; Mr. Tattlecombe’s ‘accident’; the
first and second attacks on William; the tampering with the wheel of his
car.

When she had finished Frank took up the tale. He described the attack,
telling the Chief Inspector, as he had told Miss Silver, that he was
convinced a second blow had been intended, and that in the circumstances
it would almost certainly have proved fatal.

Lamb grunted.

‘Not much to go on,’ he said.

Miss Silver gave a slight protesting cough.

‘It is difficult to believe in such a series of coincidences. An
accident to Mr. Davies just after he had recognized William Smith. An
accident on that same evening to Mr. Tattlecombe in circumstances which
rendered it possible that he had been mistaken for William Smith. Two
separate attacks on William Smith after visiting Mr. Tattlecombe in
Selby Street. And now the tampering with the wheel of his car. The
trouble is that suspicion appears to be equally divided between someone
connected with the firm of Eversleys and someone in the household at
Selby Street. It is difficult to see how anyone in the firm could have
been aware that William Smith would pay those two visits to Mr.
Tattlecombe. He did not even go by appointment, and this would seem to
make it likely that Miss Emily Salt may have been the assailant. She
appears to be a person of unstable mentality, and to have resented Mr.
Tattlecombe’s testamentary dispositions in favour of William Smith. She
is, I am informed, a tall and powerful woman. Mr. Tattlecombe’s
mackintosh was hanging in the hall. It would, I think, be difficult to
tell a woman wearing such a garment from a man on the kind of night
Sergeant Abbott has described. The first attack on William Smith was
almost at Mrs. Salt’s door. On the second occasion Emily Salt could
easily have followed him. It is not easy to see how anyone from the firm
could have done so. On the other hand it seems impossible to suspect
Emily Salt of the death of Mr. Davies, or of the accident to Mr.
Tattlecombe, since she and her sister-in-law Mrs. Salt were present at a
chapel Social on the evening of December the seventh. I have made a few
local enquiries, and I find that Mrs. and Miss Salt were assisting in
the preparations between five and seven, and that they were back in the
hall before eight o’clock, where they remained until half-past ten. It
would not, therefore, have been possible for Emily Salt to have been
concerned in these two “accidents”, and during the period when the wheel
was tampered with she was laid up in bed with influenza under the care
of Mrs. Salt. I find myself unable to believe that two independent and
unconnected series of attempts are being made upon William Smith, yet on
the evidence at present before us it is very difficult to attribute all
these attempts to the same agency.’

The Chief Inspector smiled. He said dryly,

‘If they ever were attempts, Miss Silver.’

There was a pause, slightly tinged with something not amounting to
displeasure but tending that way. When she thought it had lasted long
enough, Miss Silver coughed and said,

‘I am, naturally, not asking you to accept conclusions on which you have
only hearsay evidence, and as to which I am not myself fully satisfied.
I merely invite you to pursue some discreet investigations. You can call
for the evidence in that inquest. You can, perhaps, discover whether
either of the Eversley partners, Mr. Cyril and Mr. Brett, are in
financial difficulties. I would not press you if I were not quite
seriously troubled as to the personal safety of William Smith.’

Lamb continued to survey her with that tolerant smile.

‘William Smith being William Eversley?’

‘Precisely. He is also the senior partner, with a controlling interest
in the business. When I add that Mrs. Eversley told me that her
dividends were not forthcoming until there was active intervention on
the part of a third trustee—Mr. Cyril and Mr. Brett Eversley being the
other two—you will, I think, be prepared to admit that there are some
grounds for my apprehension.’

Lamb frowned. He was remembering previous occasions on which Miss Silver
had entertained apprehensions which had been rather dreadfully realised.
He tapped the table and said,

‘Eversley won’t thank you for stirring up trouble about his firm.’

Miss Silver drew herself up.

‘That is the very last thing which I have in mind.’ She relaxed suddenly
into one of her charming smiles. ‘Indeed, Chief Inspector, I have far
too much confidence in your delicacy and discretion to suggest, as you
yourself appear to be suggesting, that your department cannot make some
discreet enquiries without precipitating a scandal.’

Lamb threw up his hands and broke into a hearty laugh.

‘Well, well—when you put it like that! Just give Frank here all the
particulars you want, and I’ll see what we can do. You’ll have to excuse
me—I’ve got a conference. And you know, if I hadn’t, I’d be afraid to
stay. Some day you’ll be getting me into trouble.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘There is just one thing more.’

He had drawn back his chair and laid a big hand on the arm preparatory
to rising. Checking momentarily, he restrained a frown and said in a
good-humoured voice,

‘Now, now, you mustn’t keep me, or I shall be getting into the trouble I
was talking about.’

Miss Silver assumed a gracious and friendly air.

‘Your time is indeed valuable and I will not trespass upon it. I would
merely ask that you will have a person who is closely connected with
this case placed under constant observation.’

Lamb withdrew his hand, placed it upon a solid knee, and leaned forward
a little.

‘What person?’

‘Miss Mavis Jones.’

‘Why?’

Miss Silver submitted her reasons in an efficient manner, observing in
conclusion,

‘I would not urge this course upon you if I were not persuaded of its
vital importance.’

Lamb was really frowning now.

‘Can’t say I see much case for it myself.’

Miss Silver met his look with a very grave one.

‘My dear Chief Inspector, I have before now urged that a similar course
of action should be taken. I beg that you will recall those occasions
and decide for yourself whether my requests were then justified.’

Lamb again remembered with some unwillingness that when Miss Silver’s
suggestions had in the past been disregarded the consequences had not
always been such as to minister to his peace of mind. It came to him in
the blunt, plain English which we talk in our own minds that there were
men who would be alive today if he had done what Miss Silver had asked
him.

Her voice interrupted his thought persuasively.

‘I do really believe that Mr. William Eversley’s life is in very grave
danger.’

He got to his feet in a hurry.

‘Now, now, you know, you’re making me late. I suppose you’ll have to
have your way—you generally do. Tell Frank what you want, and we’ll
look after it for you.’

Miss Silver smiled upon him benignly.

‘You are always so kind.’

When the door closed behind him after a cordial handshake, Frank Abbott
observed with malice,

‘You’ve got him rattled, you know. He thinks you keep a broomstick, and
the unlicensed broomstick is naturally anathema to any government
department, which would rather let its murderers go free than have them
brought to book in an unorthodox manner.’

Miss Silver regarded him with indulgent reproof.

‘My dear Frank, you talk great nonsense.’




                             Chapter Thirty


It was at a little after six o’clock on Saturday evening that the
telephone bell rang in Miss Silver’s sitting-room. She lifted the
receiver and heard an unknown male voice say with a trace of country
accent,

‘Can I speak to Miss Silver?’

She gave her slight preliminary cough.

‘Miss Silver speaking.’

‘Miss Maud Silver—the private enquiry agent?’

‘Yes.’

The voice said, ‘My name is Tattlecombe—Abel Tattlecombe. Does that
convey anything to you?’

‘Certainly, Mr. Tattlecombe.’

At his end of the line Abel ran a hand through his thick grey hair. Not
having Miss Silver’s address, he had had to pick her out from among all
the other Silvers in the telephone-book, and there was always the chance
that he might have picked the wrong one. He felt a good deal of relief,
and was able to achieve an easier manner.

‘Then I’m right in thinking that it was you that Mrs. Smith was telling
me about—Mrs. William Smith.’

Miss Silver coughed again.

‘Did she tell you about me?’

‘Yes, she did. She works here. I expect she told you that. She came up
and talked to me, wanting the afternoon off so she could go and see
you.’

‘Yes, Mr. Tattlecombe?’

‘Well, I was agreeable. I would like to say I think a lot of William
Smith. Mrs. Smith, she’s troubled about him, and so am I. She told me
she’d been to see you and she wanted to go again. She said your name,
but she didn’t mention any address, so I had to go to the telephone
directory to find you. The fact is I’ve got things on my mind, and I
think you ought to know what they are.’

‘Yes, Mr. Tattlecombe?’

Abel ran his hand through his hair again. He couldn’t think what Abby
was going to say to him. But it wasn’t any good. There are things you
can keep to yourself, and things you can’t. Why, look at Abby—she
couldn’t keep it—had to come round and load it off on to him. Well
then, he wasn’t keeping it either. His conscience wouldn’t let him. You
can’t play about with people’s lives, and he wasn’t going to be a party
to it. He said firmly,

‘There’s things you ought to know, and the way I’m placed I can’t come
and tell you about them—my leg’s only just out of a splint. Would it be
possible for you to come here?’

Miss Silver coughed and said, ‘Perfectly possible, Mr. Tattlecombe.’

Abel rang off with a slightly defiant feeling that he had burned his
boats.

He had gone downstairs into the empty shop to telephone. He could manage
the stairs if he took them slowly one step at a time and nobody hustled
him. He had rather an enjoyable prowl about the shop and the workshop
whilst he waited. The doctor said to use the leg, and this was as good a
way as any. The new animals pleased him a good deal. He took a look into
Miss Cole’s books, and was gratified.

When Miss Silver knocked as he had bidden her he went to let her in,
walking stiffly, but not allowing himself to limp. What he saw when she
emerged into the light had a very reassuring effect. Mr. Tattlecombe
knew a lady when he saw one. He considered that Miss Silver was a lady.
She was dressed in very much the same way as his sister Abigail. Her
clothes were not made of such handsome material, and they had been worn
for a considerably longer time, but they were the same sort of clothes.
Suitable was the word which he would have used. None of your mutton
dressed as lamb. An elderly lady should be suitably attired. Just what
he would have done if the private enquiry agent whom he had as it were
plucked blindly from the pages of the telephone directory, had walked in
upon him in high heels, a skirt to her knee, powdered, lipsticked, and
waving a cigarette, it is really quite impossible to say. He was,
fortunately, not to be subjected to any such ordeal.

Upstairs, and able to view one another in the unshaded light of his
sitting-room, it was with mutual approbation that they did so, Miss
Silver’s mental comment being, ‘A very nice, respectable man.’ When they
were seated and she had seen that his leg-rest was comfortably placed,
there was one of those slight pauses. It was broken by Mr. Tattlecombe.

‘Well, ma’am,’ he said, ‘it was very good of you to come.’

Miss Silver offered a deprecating smile and a ‘Not at all.’

Abel continued.

‘The fact is, I think a lot of William Smith. He’s been as good as a
grandson to me here. I lost mine that was in the prison-camp with him in
Germany, and what one man can do to take another one’s place—well,
William’s done that and more. His wife’s been to see you. She’ll have
told you about me being struck down, and William too—and pushed after
that to throw him under a bus when he was waiting on an island.’

‘Yes, she told me.’

There was a second pause. It lasted longer than the first one. In the
end Abel Tattlecombe fixed his round blue eyes on her face and said in a
tone of portent,

‘My sister had tea with me today.’

Miss Silver inclined her head without speaking.

‘Mrs. Salt—Mrs. Abigail Salt, that’s her name—176 Selby Street.’

Miss Silver repeated her former acknowledgment.

Abel pursued the theme.

‘That’s where I was when I came out of hospital—that’s where I made my
will leaving the business to William Smith. And that’s where he was
struck down after coming to see me.’ He paused, and added, ‘Both times.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘So Mrs. Smith informed me.’

Abel brightened. He rubbed the top of his right ear vigorously and said,

‘Did she tell you about Emily Salt?’

‘Yes.’

Abel let his hand fall with a clap upon his knee.

‘However my sister Abby has put up with her all these years passes me.
But it can’t go on. Something’s got to be done about it, and so I told
her this afternoon. “She’ll be far better off in a home,” I said, “and
no risk to others.” And Abby—well, for once she hadn’t got anything to
say for a bit, and then come out with a piece she’d said before, about
Emily being in a fever and not rightly knowing what she was saying.’

With a neat disentangling movement Miss Silver extracted the pith of
this discourse.

‘Your sister came here to tell you of something Miss Salt had said
during her recent illness?’

Abel wagged his head.

‘Influenza,’ he said gloomily—‘and clean out of her wits.’

Miss Silver, sitting extraordinarily upright on a small Victorian chair
inherited from a previous generation of Tattlecombes, clasped her hands
in her lap and enquired,

‘What did she say?’

Abel rubbed his ear.

‘Abby said she’d got a temperature of a hundred and three and she was
laid there groaning. All of a sudden she shoots out her hand and gets
Abby by the wrist. “He ought to be dead,” she says, whispering fit to
curdle your blood, and then she screams it out at the top of her voice
over and over a dozen times, till Abby was afraid the neighbours would
think there was a murder in the house. Abby did her best to quiet her,
and presently she stopped and said just as if it was something quite
ordinary, “I did my best—both times. You’d think he’d be dead by now,
wouldn’t you?” Abby said to hush and lie down, and she went to get her a
drink. When she came back, there was that Emily lying there staring, and
saying, “He’s no right to have the money. It’s very wicked of Abel.”
Abby hushed her up and told her the same as she’d done before, that she
didn’t want my money—her husband left her plenty, and William was
welcome. She says Emily just went on staring. She took the drink and
stared at her over the cup and said, “I thought you wanted me to.” Abby
said sharp, “Wanted you to do what?” and that Emily shifts her eyes and
says, “Oh, no—it wasn’t you, was it?” and she finished her drink and
went off to sleep. Abby says there was talking and muttering in the
night, but nothing you could put words to, and in the morning her
temperature was down. Well, you may say it wasn’t much to go on and the
woman was out of her head, but I could see there was more than that.
I’ve known Abby too many years not to know when she’s got something on
her mind, and in the end I got it out of her. Seems she went downstairs
with William the night he was struck down. They were in the front
parlour for a bit, talking about me. When she came back from letting him
out she took notice that my mackintosh was gone from the hall stand. I’d
got it on when I had my accident, so it went to the hospital and come on
with me to Selby Street. It was torn, but not too bad, and Abby mended
it up and hung it in the hall against my wanting it. Well, it passed in
her mind that Emily might have slipped it on to go to the post, which
she shouldn’t have done, and Abby says she’d made up her mind to tell
her as much. She went on up, and no Emily Salt. Presently she hears the
front door and she goes down. There’s my mackintosh back on the hall
stand wringing damp, and Emily halfway down the kitchen stairs. Abby
says, “Where have you been?” and she says, “To the post.” Abby was going
to mention the mackintosh, but that Emily didn’t wait, she was off into
the scullery and the tap running. Said she wanted a drink. Cold
tap-water after going to the post on a January night! Well, Abby said no
more, but there was something she thought about afterwards when it come
out about William being struck down.’ He paused.

Miss Silver said, ‘Yes, Mr. Tattlecombe?’

He wagged his head in an emphatic manner.

‘When she went down to see to the kitchen fire she missed the poker.
It’s a little short one she keeps handy at the side of the range. Well,
it wasn’t there, and she didn’t stop to look for it, but come next
morning she found it in the scullery.’

There was a pause, followed by one pregnant word.

‘Rusty,’ said Mr. Tattlecombe.




                           Chapter Thirty-one


‘And where do we go from here?’ said William.

It was Sunday morning, and they had finished breakfast. The day lay
before them. It came to Katharine with a tremendous sense of relief that
it wasn’t for her to say what the next step was to be. She had done it
all these weeks, but she didn’t have to do it any more. It was very
restful. She said,

‘That is for you to say.’

He pushed back his chair.

‘Well, I don’t know that there’s much choice, really. I think we’d
better go over and see Cyril. Has he still got Evendon?’

‘Yes, but I don’t know that he’ll be there.’

‘He always used to go down there for the weekends—liked gloating over
his collections. But of course you said Maud was dead——’

She nodded.

‘Five years ago.’

‘And Sylvia’s married. Doesn’t he go down there now?’

‘Oh, yes, I think so.’ She hesitated, and then said in a reluctant
voice, ‘I think there’s something going on with Mavis Jones.’

He gave a whistle.

‘I thought it was Brett!’

‘So did I, but I think that’s back history. I daresay I’m wrong about
Cyril, but—well, you know how it is, if she’s in the room he’s got a
sort of way of looking at her before he answers, and I’ve thought she
was being a bit proprietary.’

He whistled again.

‘Poor old Cyril! He’s rather a defenceless sort of chap—not much good
at saying no. And Mavis—Katharine, she must have known me.’

‘I’m quite sure she did.’

‘Do you suppose she—told anyone?’

‘I don’t know.’

‘Cyril—or Brett?’

‘I don’t know, William.’

He got up, walked to the window, looked out at the grey sky, the grey
street, and turned, frowning deeply.

‘I don’t think so—not Cyril—not either of them. Why should she? If she
was trying to kid herself it was just a likeness she wouldn’t. You know,
it’s quite extraordinary how convinced people can get themselves over
something if they don’t want it to be true. She may have done that,
or——’ He stopped short.

‘Or what?’

He said, ‘Davies—Mr. Tattlecombe—me. If she made up her mind to do
anything about it she wouldn’t tell Cyril or Brett.’ Then quite suddenly
he laughed. ‘That’s rubbish—it must be. Where’s the motive? Besides,
people don’t do things like that. It must be nonsense. I tell you what,
you ring up Evendon and find out if Cyril is there. If he is, say you’d
like to run over. Don’t say anything about me. If he’s not there, find
out where he is. He might be with Sylvia.’

‘I shouldn’t think he would be. They aren’t settled.’

He came over and pulled her up.

‘Well, come along and telephone! We can’t do anything until we know
where he is.’

It was the butler who answered, elderly, polite, and suave. Mr. Eversley
was at home but he had stepped out.

Katharine heard the news with relief. She said,

‘It’s Mrs. William Eversley, Soames. Will you tell Mr. Eversley when he
comes in that I am very particularly anxious to see him, and that I am
driving over. I’m speaking from the Cedar House, and I should be over in
about an hour and a half. Will you tell him that?’

‘Certainly, madam.’

‘I suppose Mr. Brett isn’t there?’

‘No, madam.’

Katharine said, ‘Thank you,’ and rang off.

She turned round. William had his hands in his pockets. The thought went
through her mind—‘No one who knew him when he was a boy could possibly
think he was anyone else.’

He said, ‘Soames still there? Think he’ll stand up to the shock of
seeing me?’

She came to him then, slipping her hand inside his arm.

‘You don’t think we ought to break it to them first?’

She got a grave, steady look.

‘No, I don’t. I think we’ll administer the shock.’

It was about half an hour later that Sylvia rang up. Her voice was as
pretty as herself, but it sounded distracted, as who should say, ‘Enter
Tilburina, mad in white satin.’ If, however, she was mad at this moment,
it was in the American sense.

‘Is that Katharine? Soames says you rang up from the Cedar House.’

‘Right both times, darling.’

‘I’m not at Evendon. I wouldn’t go. Jocko and I are at Huntinglea with
his people. Soames rang up and said you were coming to lunch, and what
about us. Of course Daddy put him up to it, and I just want to know if
he was speaking the truth. Are you really going to be there for lunch?
Or is it just a trap to get us there?’

Katharine felt a little bewildered.

‘Well, I don’t know about lunch. The fact is, something’s happened, and
I’m going over to see Cyril about it. After that—well, it just
depends.’

Sylvia sounded more distracted than ever.

‘Then you’ve heard! Isn’t it _grim_! Daddy wanted us to come over for
the weekend and meet her, but I put my foot down flat.’

‘Sylvia, I don’t think we’re talking about the same thing—it doesn’t
make sense. Who did Cyril want you to go and meet?’

An angry sob came back along the line.

‘That foul Jones woman—he’s married her!’

Katharine said, ‘_No!_’ on a quick indrawn breath.

Twenty-five miles away Sylvia stamped her foot.

‘Well, he has! He rang up last night to say so. He was so nervous he
could hardly get it out, and I don’t wonder. I kept saying “_No!_” just
like you did, and he went on saying it over and over again. And then he
wanted Jocko and me to come for the weekend, and I said, “I
won’t!”—just like that, and slammed down the receiver. So now he’s got
Soames to ring up and lure us by saying you’re coming to lunch, and I
thought I’d just find out if you really were. Because it might be Daddy
gone all foxy, or it might be Soames trying to boil up a
reconciliation—he’s frightfully family-retainer, you know. So what
about it? Jocko says what’s the good of quarrelling with your father,
even if he has married his secretary? And his father and mother say the
same. You know how they are—all for peace and a quiet life. And of
course they’re marvellous in-laws. But I’m not confronting that Jones
woman alone. Jocko doesn’t count. I want a fellow female at my back, so
you’ve just got to be there, or I won’t stay. Au revoir, _angel_—but if
you’re not there, it’ll be _devil_, and I’ll never speak to you again!’

By the time the conversation was over William had practically made
himself a part of it by coming up close and propping his chin on
Katharine’s shoulder so as to get his ear next to the receiver. When she
hung up his eyes were laughing. He said,

‘Whatever else has changed, Sylvia hasn’t. Jocko used to be a nice lad.
What’s he turned out like?’

‘Pretty good, I think. They’re blissfully happy. Did you hear what she
said?’

‘Most of it—something about Cyril and Miss Jones.’

‘William, he’s married her!’

He whistled.

‘Gosh! Well, I suppose he bought it.’

Katharine felt a light shiver go over her, she didn’t quite know why.
Cyril and Mavis Jones—married—now! Why? Or wasn’t there any reason?
What reason could there be?

William said quickly, ‘Don’t look like that—I won’t have it!’ He pulled
her up close and kissed her. ‘I won’t have it, I tell you—not for fifty
thousand Cyrils and a million Mavis Joneses!’

She had to laugh then.

‘Darling, what a perfectly appalling prospect!’




                           Chapter Thirty-two


Evendon had been a wedding present to Cyril Eversley from his
father-in-law, the late Alfred Sherringham Upjohn, who, having
accumulated a preposterous fortune, had decided that his daughter and
sole heiress would be better off without most of it. He gave her husband
what he described as a gentleman’s landed estate, put a comfortable sum
in trust for Sylvia, and spent the afternoon of his days in erecting
almshouses for the old, and nurseries for the very young. As he had
always been perfectly sure that whatever he did was right, it never
occurred to him to doubt the wisdom of this proceeding, his only regret
being that the war interfered with his building schemes. He was killed
by a direct hit from a flying bomb early in ’45, but his trustees were
now able to continue the work he had planned. Mavis Jones’ opinion was
that he should have been declared insane and placed under restraint, but
she had learned not to express this view to Cyril.

As William and Katharine drove in at the entrance gate and followed a
winding drive, the trees were leafless overhead, their winter brown and
grey broken here and there by clumps of evergreen or the shining mass of
holly, berries still clinging to it here and there. The house, placed
upon rising ground and set off by terraces, was modern—not too big to
be run with a diminished staff, and planned for comfort.

Waiting for Soames to answer the door, Katharine would rather have been
anywhere else. She was afraid, and part of her fear was for Cyril
Eversley. That Mavis had recognised William, she was sure. That she had
told Cyril—was that sure, or wasn’t it? Could Cyril know that William
was alive and do nothing about it? Someone who knew William was alive
had tried to do something about it—to Mr. Davies—to Mr.
Tattlecombe—to William—and to William’s car. It couldn’t be Cyril. She
had known him all her life. He wasn’t cruel, or ruthless, or hard. He
was a drifter—vague and dreamy. It couldn’t be Cyril. The line of least
resistance, yes. A desperate cutting of the Gordian knot, no.

The door swung in. Soames stood there waiting, all his manner gone. He
said, ‘Mr. William!’ in a gasping voice. His mouth opened and shut like
a fish. He choked and said it again—‘Mr. William!’

William clapped him on the shoulder.

‘Hold up, Soames—I’m real. Look here, you’d better sit down for a
minute. Where’s Mr. Cyril?’

Soames stood by the chair to which he had been led, holding on to it,
getting back his breath. He said,

‘The study——’ And then, ‘I’m all right, Mr. William. It was just—the
shock—as you might say——’

William pushed him down on to the chair.

‘You stay put. We’ll go and find him.’

But Soames was pulling himself up again. He put out his hand to
Katharine, and she took it.

‘If I may say, madam, how pleased—how very pleased I am——’

Cyril Eversley was in the study alone. As far as it was possible to
retreat from the complications of this weekend, he had retreated.
Whether you study in it or not, any room with that name is from time
immemorial the private property of the man of the house, to which women
are only admitted on sufferance. When, in addition to its private
character, the man has surrounded himself with the Sunday papers, the
‘Keep out!’ sign could hardly be more patently displayed. Cyril was not,
however, at all sanguine. Mavis had been free of his private office for
too long to consider that the hint could apply to her, and as to
Sylvia—when had he ever wished to keep her out? She would come, and she
would make a scene. Mavis had made one already. One—if it had stopped
at that! The word could really only be used if today’s scene was
considered to be a prolongation of yesterday’s.

He held up the _Sunday Times_, but he didn’t read it. It gave him a very
slight feeling of protection against somebody bursting in. Yesterday’s
scene had been about giving out their marriage. After saying that there
was no hurry, Mavis had suddenly insisted on accompanying him to Evendon
as his wife. He had had to announce his marriage to Soames. He had had
to ring Sylvia up and break it to her. He hadn’t wanted to do either of
these things. The interview with Soames had left a decided chill upon
the air. His telephone conversation with Sylvia had been quite
disintegrating. This morning’s scene with Mavis—if you were going to
separate it from yesterday’s scene—had had Sylvia’s reception of the
news as its theme-song. Why in heaven’s name must women be so dramatic?
The last thing he wanted was any fuss. Scenes made him feel positively
unwell, and there were going to be more of them. Sylvia and Jocko were
coming to lunch. Katharine was coming over——

A very faint gleam of light illumined the mental scene. Katharine
mightn’t like the idea of his marriage, but she wouldn’t make a scene,
and it was not probable, but just barely possible, that she might have a
calming effect upon Sylvia.

He heard the door open, looked apprehensively over the top of the paper,
and saw Katharine—transformed. He could not have analysed the
impression she made on him. There was a glow, a bloom, a brightness. The
paper dropped, and as he rose to his feet and she stretched out her
hands to him and said, ‘Oh, Cyril, something wonderful has happened!’
William came into the room behind her and shut the door. It was all over
in a moment, the rush and glow of emotion—and William, and for the
moment the whole unbelievable scene was believable and real. It was as
if Katharine had created the kind of illusion which is created on the
stage, where an imagined drama moves its audience to laughter or to
tears.

Cyril Eversley found himself with a hand on William’s shoulder and a
voice that stammered his name. And then, before there was time for
anything more, Mavis walked into the room. Whether she had encountered
Soames and was prepared, or whether she had just walked in upon the
situation, she maintained an extraordinary appearance of calm. She came
to Cyril without hurry, allowed her glance to pass indifferently over
Katharine, and to rest with a shade of hauteur upon William. Cyril’s
hand dropped, he stepped back. She said,

‘Mr. William Smith, I think.’

William smiled his usual pleasant smile.

‘I don’t think you do, Miss Jones.’

‘I am Mrs. Eversley.’ She turned to Cyril. ‘What is this man doing
here?’

Cyril put a hand to his head. The moment was over. You didn’t stay in
the clouds, you came spinning down to earth with a crash.

He said, ‘It’s William,’ and felt her hand close hard upon his arm.

‘My dear Cyril, pull yourself together! This is Mr. William Smith, an
assistant in a shop called Tattlecombe’s Toy Bazaar. He came to see me
about the manufacture of some toys for which he has taken out a patent.
That must have been about six or seven weeks ago. Naturally I was
struck, as you are, by a certain superficial likeness to your cousin
William, but—’

Cyril pulled away.

‘You saw him? Why didn’t you tell me?’

‘I didn’t think the toys would interest you, and I thought you might
find the likeness—upsetting.’

William gave a short laugh.

‘I’m sorry to contradict a lady, but it isn’t a likeness. I’m William
Eversley.’

‘Then why didn’t you say so?’

‘Because I didn’t know. I’d had a bang on the head and I couldn’t
remember anything before ’42. I’m sorry if I’m inconvenient, Cyril old
chap, but it’s me.’

Mavis stared at him. Those fine eyes of hers could sustain a very long,
cold stare.

‘This story would have been a good deal more convincing if you had
produced it before Mrs. William Eversley had been given the opportunity
of coaching you for six or seven weeks.’

Katharine’s colour flamed. William said, ‘You’re talking about my wife,’
and Mavis laughed.

‘Nobody is disputing that, Mr. Smith. I’m sorry I didn’t give her her
right name just now. After knowing her so long as Mrs. William Eversley
it’s quite natural, I’m sure. But she’s been Mrs. William Smith for just
over a week now, hasn’t she?’ She swung round on Cyril with a sort of
fierce triumph. ‘They were married yesterday week at St. Jude’s,
Rasselas Square, just round the corner from where she’s been living in
Rasselas Mews. She married him as William Smith, and that’s what he is.
She saw the likeness the same as I saw it, and she saw how she could
make use of it. She’s had seven weeks to coach him, and a week’s
honeymoon to dot the i’s and cross the t’s, with a brand-new husband all
ready to walk into the firm and take William Eversley’s place.’

With every word she jarred Cyril’s taste more painfully, but if one
sense was outraged, another reinforced it. An aghast sense of
self-preservation beheld the possible abyss and recoiled. Between the
two, his by no means robust initiative was paralysed.

At this moment there came the sound of running feet. The door was flung
open and Sylvia rushed into the room. It was rather like seeing a young
colt rush a fence. She was all long limbs, uncontrolled but pliant with
youth and grace. Her hair, her colouring, her eyes, were all as bright
as a spring day. Her dark young husband followed her with a slightly
abashed air. Sylvia took one look, uttered an ecstatic scream, and flung
herself on William’s neck.

‘Sylly!’

‘Billy!’

They hugged each other over the old nursery joke. With the tears running
down her face and one arm still round William, Sylvia reached for
Katharine and hugged her too.

‘Angel darling lambs—when did it happen—why didn’t you tell us? Jocko,
it’s William! He’s come back—he’s alive!’ She let go suddenly and ran
to Cyril. ‘Daddy, what’s the matter? Why aren’t you waving flags? It’s
William! It’s my own blessed darling William! What’s the matter with
you?’

It would really have been better if Mavis had restrained herself, but
she was quite unable to do so. She smiled in a superior manner and said,

‘I am afraid you are making rather an embarrassing mistake, Sylvia. This
is Katharine’s new husband, Mr. Smith.’

Sylvia had both hands clutching at her father’s arm. She clutched as
hard as she could and said,

‘And who told you you could call her Katharine? If you ask me, it’s a
piece of damned cheek! And if you start coming the stepmother over me
you’ll be sorry for it, so you’d better watch it! And if anyone says
this isn’t William—’

William came up quietly and put a hand on her shoulder.

‘Dry up, Sylvia!’ He turned to Cyril. ‘Don’t you think this is a bit of
a crowd? I suggest that everyone goes away and leaves us to it. I lost
my memory, but I’ve got it back again. It came back quite suddenly in
the night. I don’t think you’ve really got any doubts, but if you have,
I don’t think I shall have any difficulty in clearing them out of the
way. This is all a bit emotional, don’t you think? Katharine, suppose
you take Sylvia away. And perhaps’—he paused—‘your wife would leave us
too.’

Sylvia moved, flung her arms round his neck again, murmured, ran to
Katharine, and went out with her, pulling Jocko by the sleeve.

Mavis said, ‘No!’ And then, ‘Cyril, don’t be a fool! You haven’t got
anything to say to this man, and you don’t want to listen to him either.
You want to see your solicitor.’

Cyril looked at her, and looked away. Then he looked at William. There
was something of wretchedness in the look, something of defeat.

William said, ‘Don’t be an ass, Cyril! You don’t want to drag a
solicitor into this, do you? If your wife won’t leave us, what about
coming for a drive in my car? We’ll really do better by ourselves, you
know.’

Cyril passed a hand over his brow. There was sweat on it. He said,

‘You’d better go, Mavis.’

It was he who got the cold stare this time. It carried an icy, dominant
anger.

‘And leave him to talk you round—to talk you into the sort of
admissions you’ll be ready to kick yourself for when you see a solicitor
and he tells you just what a fool you’ve been! I’m not going! And you’re
not going a step without me!’

William said quietly, ‘Very well then—Katharine and I will go. But you
had better think what you are doing. Cyril doesn’t even pretend that he
hasn’t recognized me. It’s very inconvenient of me, I know, but I’ve
come back and I’ve got to be reckoned with. Well, it’s up to you what
sort of reckoning it’s going to be. There will be things to be settled
up. We can make a family matter of it and fix things in a friendly way
as between cousins, or you can call in your solicitor, and I can call in
mine, and we can make a business matter of it as between partners. Brett
will have to take sides with one of us, there’ll be some sort of a
dog-fight, and it will all be very bad for business. If you want to have
it that way you can. What you’d better understand here and now is that
you can’t have it both ways. You’ll have to make up your mind, Cyril.
You can’t start the dog-fight and then call it off and switch over to a
friendly arrangement. You know, you’d really very much better have a
talk with me now.’

Mavis turned her anger on him.

‘He’s not having any talks with you, Mr. Smith, and you needn’t think he
is!’

William said in his most matter-of-fact voice,

‘Oh, don’t be silly. He knows perfectly well who I am, and so do you.
Come on Cyril, speak for yourself—do you recognise me, or don’t you?’

This time there was appeal as well as defeat in Cyril’s look. He put out
a wavering hand to William and said,

‘Send her away.’




                          Chapter Thirty-three


‘And if she could have killed me then and there she’d have done it,’
said William cheerfully.

They were driving back to the Cedar House through the early
afternoon—mild, grey weather, and everything very peaceful.

‘Where do you suppose she’s gone?’ said Katharine.

‘Back to town to beat up Brett, I should think. She just pushed herself
into a fur coat, new and quite expensive, and a small car, ditto. I
suppose she’s got rooms or something?’

‘A flat. Rather a nice one, I believe. I should think Cyril’s been
paying the rent.’ She laughed and said, ‘That’s gossip.’

‘Whose?’

‘Brett’s.’

William looked straight in front of him, frowning.

‘How does she stand with Brett these days?’

‘I don’t know.’

‘You don’t think she told him she’d seen me? I didn’t think so myself,
but—well, I don’t know.’

Katharine said quickly, ‘Oh, no, she couldn’t have.’

‘Why?’

‘Because he went on asking me to marry him.’ She laughed a little. ‘You
needn’t worry, darling—he isn’t in love with me, and never has been. I
think he just thought I’d do nicely to settle down with.’

‘You say he went on asking you. Do you mean after Mavis saw me?’

‘Oh, yes. He wrote to me just after that, and he rang me up—well,
actually it was the night before we were married. I don’t know how he
found out where I was. So, you see, Mavis couldn’t have told him about
seeing you.’

William fell into a dead silence for the best part of a mile. Then he
said,

‘I think the business is in a pretty fair mess. Cyril has obviously got
the wind up, and Mavis was uncommon anxious to make him hold his tongue.
I didn’t press him—I thought we’d better get the family reunion part of
it over first. But he had a bit of a breakdown and said one or two
rather odd things.’

‘What sort of things?’

‘Well, I should think there’s been some funny business about your money,
because he blattered out something about Brett wanting to marry you and
that would have made it all right, and then something about Mavis saying
so. It was all muddled up, you know, because the poor chap rather went
to pieces, but I got the impression that Mavis had been pretty keen on
the idea of Brett putting things square by marrying you.’

Katharine’s colour brightened dangerously.

‘Kind of him, and of her! But I kept on saying no.’

William didn’t take any notice of that.

‘The thing is, I got the idea that Mavis had gone on being keen right up
to the present moment. Cyril rather put it forward to show that she
couldn’t have recognised me when I went to see her in December, because
if she had she wouldn’t have been pressing Brett to marry you.’

She made a quick angry sound.

‘William, I shall scream if you go on talking as if I was something on a
bargain-basement counter waiting to be picked up!’

He gave a fleeting grin, put out a hand and patted her, and was sober
again.

‘She certainly did recognize me, but she must have known that I didn’t
recognize her. Well, she had my address. She’d make enquiries, and she’d
hear all about William Smith having lost his memory. I wonder if she
came along on the night of December the seventh and pushed Mr.
Tattlecombe under that car—not as Mr. Tattlecombe of course, but
thinking it was me. You see, she didn’t know what he looked like, or
anything about him. She may just have been meaning to give the layout a
once-over. Or she may have had some kind of a plan for getting me to
come out. And then the door opens and someone does come out—right size,
hair looking the right colour with the light shining from behind——’ He
paused and added cheerfully, ‘I wonder how long it was before she found
out that she hadn’t bumped me off.’

Katharine didn’t say anything at all. William went on again.

‘It’s all theory of course, but it might quite easily have been that
way. I’m practically sure there’s been some funny business with the
accounts. Well, my coming back would mean a show-down. It must have been
an awful shock when I walked in on William Smith’s appointment. I’ll say
this for the Jones, she didn’t bat an eyelid. But the position would be
fairly grim. First line of defence my loss of memory. No depending on
it. Anyone might recognize me, and once you start bumping into people
you’re apt to go on. If Brett could get you to marry him, that would be
a second line. They’d reckon on my not wanting to make things difficult
for you, and if I happened to meet with an accident, there wouldn’t ever
be any question about the marriage.’

‘William, I said I’d scream, and I will! I wouldn’t have married Brett
_ever_!’

‘But they weren’t to know that,’ said William reasonably. ‘He’s always
been considered a very fascinating chap.’

At about this time Miss Silver was entering the cold, hygienic precincts
of St. Luke’s Hospital in company with Sergeant Abbott, who had invited
her over the telephone in the following terms,

‘The Chief says I can take you along if you don’t mind being a friend of
the deceased.’

After rather passing from hand to hand, they found themselves in the
brisk and businesslike presence of the Sister to whose ward Mr. Davies
had been carried on the night of his accident. To her were presently
added a couple of student nurses, one of whom had been on day and the
other on night duty during the few hours that elapsed before he died.
All three concurred in saying that Mr. Davies had uttered nothing more
intelligible than a groan.

Frank Abbott got to his feet. The prettier of the two nurses looked at
him admiringly. He said,

‘Well, thank you very much, Sister.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘What about the patients on either side of him in the ward?’

The Sister’s gracious smile of dismissal chilled off.

‘I am afraid they would not be of any help to you. You see, the screens
were round his bed, and as you have heard, he was unconscious.’

‘Perhaps if you will be so good as to let me have their names and
addresses, just for my own satisfaction——’

‘Oh, certainly, but I am afraid—the man on the right died on the
following day. Yates, on the other side, is still with us. As a matter
of fact he goes out tomorrow. He had rather a severe relapse.’

Miss Silver looked at Sergeant Abbott in a pointed manner, and he
obliged.

‘Perhaps if we could just see this man Yates——’

They found Mr. Yates, a friendly talkative Cockney, quite disposed for
company. They were presently left with him, and after a few
preliminaries he was asked whether he remembered an accident case in the
next bed on December the seventh.

‘Acourse I do. It’s me leg that’s been bad, not me ’ead. Only in for a
few hours, poor bloke. Old gentleman like ’im hadn’t got no business
dodging around in front of cars after dark—see? The h’eye isn’t quick
enough—see? You get flummoxed and down you go. Pity.’

‘Did he say anything at all?’

‘The screens was round his bed,’ said Mr. Yates. ‘Always know a bloke’s
going to pop off when they puts the screens round him. Started doing it
to me once, but I soon put ’em to rights. It was that little red-headed
nurse—pretty gal. And I says to her, “You put those screens round me,
and I’ll knock ’em over—see?” She says, “Oh, Yates!” and I says, “Don’t
you Oh, Yates me! There wasn’t no one to put screens round when I was
born. Eight in a room we was, and if I’m a-going to die I can do it just
as well in a crowd as being born—see? Only I ain’t a-going to die, and
you can go and tell Sister so with my love.” So she says, “Oh, Yates!”
again and goes for Sister. But I never ’ad no screens.’

Miss Silver leaned forward.

‘A very commendable spirit,’ she said. ‘Mr. Yates, are you quite sure
that poor Mr. Davies didn’t say anything?’

Yates put his head to one side. He had a little puckered monkey face.
His eyes were dancing bright.

‘Well, there wasn’t nothing you could call a message, if that’s what
you’re looking for.’

Miss Silver inclined her head graciously.

‘Just anything you heard him say, Mr. Yates—even if it was only a word
or two.’

‘Well, it wasn’t nothing really. I shouldn’t ’ave heard it only my leg
was bad and I couldn’t seem to get off. There was a bloke down at the
far end of the ward playing up, and Nurse trying to settle ’im, when I
heard the old bloke behind the screens call out. Not loud—see? “Joan,”
he said—leastways that’s what it sounded like.’

‘Joan, or Jones?’ said Miss Silver.

‘I dunno—might ’ave been either—you pays your money and you takes your
choice. If ’e’d got anyone belonging to ’im name of Joan, then you can
take it it was Joan. And if ’e’d got anyone belonging to ’im name of
Jones, then you can take it it was Jones. It might just as well ’ave
been one as the other. So if it’s going to be any comfort to anyone,
you’d better make up your mind which way you want it to be and stick to
it—see?’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘What else did he say?’

Mr. Yates nodded brightly.

‘Said she didn’t believe ’im—jus’ like that.—“She didn’t believe me.”’
He puckered up the whole of one side of his face in a monkey grin. ‘Coo
lumme, I could ’ave told ’im that! Waste of time thinking up lies to
tell ’em. ’Orrid unbelieving minds women’s got. So I says, “Never mind,
chum,” I says, “you just take it easy.” And ’e says, “She pushed me.”
“She didn’t ought to have done that, chum,” I says, and ’e gives a kind
of a groan and starts muttering. And bimeby ’e stops and I can’t ’ear
nothing, so when Nurse comes along I tells ’er. “I think ’e’s gone,” I
says, and so ’e was.’

Frank Abbott said, ‘Did you tell anyone he’d spoken to you?’

Mr. Yates shook his head.

‘Nobody arst me. And next day I ’ad my h’operation, and after that I was
crool bad.’

Emerging upon the street, Frank Abbott said,

‘It’s about as much good as a sick headache so far as evidence goes, but
I suppose one might describe it as local colour.’

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘I should not advise your describing it in that manner to Chief
Detective Inspector Lamb.’




                          Chapter Thirty-four


William and Katharine came back to Rasselas Mews on the Sunday night.
Katharine could hardly believe that they had been away for something
less than thirty-six hours. So much, so very much, had happened in that
short, strange space of time. She was Katharine Eversley again, for one
thing. There was a strangeness in that. To come back to the name of her
girlhood, to the name of the bride of that last year before the war, and
to the name which she had borne through the bitter years of widowhood,
and to come back to it with the bitterness all gone and happiness
flooding in—this in itself made the day before yesterday seem like
something which had been left behind a long time ago.

There was a parcel on the doorstep at the top of the flight of twelve
steps which led to the front door. William stubbed his toe against it in
the dark. They took it into the sitting-room, and found a cardboard box
wrapped in brown paper. When the paper was removed a two-pound jar
appeared. It was labelled Apple Honey, and it had a scrap of paper tied
round the neck on which was written in an upright, old-fashioned hand,
‘With kind regards—Abigail Salt.’

Katharine said, ‘How frightfully good of her. It’s the same as she gave
us for tea when we went there, and we said how nice it was. We’ll have
some tomorrow.’

William said, ‘All right. I say, it’s twelve o’clock! Get off to bed!
I’ll just put the car away. A bit of luck, there being room for it here.
I should hate to have to trail back from Ellery Street.’

Katharine put the apple honey away.

They had decided that they must go to business as usual on Monday
morning. With Brett an uncertain quantity, seven years’ arrears of
business waiting, and a visit to his solicitor imperative since whether
actually alive or not, he was legally dead, William could still feel and
say that Mr. Tattlecombe must come first.

‘There’s a very nice chap, a friend of Ernie’s—I’ve been wanting to get
hold of him for some time. He’s a good salesman, and I think he’d suit
Mr. Tattlecombe down to the ground. The business he’s in has just
changed hands, and I don’t think he cares about the new people. If I
could bring the old man round to thinking what an acquisition he’d be,
it would soften the blow a bit—I’m afraid it is going to be a blow.
Well, that’ll just about take up the morning. Then, I think, we’ll get
the rest of the day off. I’ll have to get the legal side going. Is Mr.
Hall still in the firm?’

‘Oh, yes.’

‘Then that ought to make it all quite easy. You can ring up from the
shop and make an appointment, and we’ll go along together. Then there’s
Brett. I suppose someone will have broken it to him by then.’

‘Mavis might——’

‘Cyril’s bound to have done something about it, I expect. They’ll both
be at the office.’

‘William—there’s Miss Silver——’

‘Well, you can ring her up now before we start. She lives at the address
you’ve got, doesn’t she—it’s not just an office?’

They were having breakfast. There was a pleasant smell of coffee and
bacon. Katharine began to get up, but was pulled back again.

‘Not a step till you’ve finished what’s on your plate! Cold bacon is
about the nastiest food on earth. Five minutes isn’t going to make any
difference to Miss Silver.’

The bacon finished and the coffee drunk, 15 Montague Mansions was rung
up. Miss Silver expressed herself as highly gratified at the return of
Mr. William Eversley’s memory.

‘It should certainly simplify matters. And you say Mr. Cyril Eversley
and his daughter have recognised him? That is all to the good.’

Katharine said, ‘Miss Silver——’

‘Yes, my dear?’

‘Miss Silver, Cyril’s secretary—that Miss Jones who saw William when he
called on the firm in December—he’s married her.’

Miss Silver said, ‘Dear me!’

‘I suppose I ought to have seen it coming, but I didn’t think he’d be
such a fool.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘It is never safe to rely on that with a gentleman—especially in the
case of a secretary. They are so much thrown together, and he had
probably come to depend on her.’

‘Oh, she’d got him completely under her thumb—you could see that. But
she couldn’t quite manage to make him say he didn’t recognise William,
so she lost her temper and flung off to town in her new car—a wedding
present, I suppose.’

There was a little more talk. Miss Silver said,

‘I would like to see you both. Would some time today be possible?’

Katharine hesitated, half looked over her shoulder at William, who shook
his head, and turned back again.

‘I don’t know—I’m afraid not. We’ve got to see Mr. Tattlecombe and our
solicitor—and William will have to see his cousins. Perhaps I——’

Miss Silver said firmly, ‘I think it is important that I should see Mr.
William Eversley.’

‘I don’t know—perhaps this evening——’ She looked round again, caught
William’s nod, and went on. ‘About half-past eight, unless anything
unforeseen turns up—is that all right? ... Goodbye, and thank you very
much.’

William had a teasing look.

‘What did you mean by something unforeseen turning up?’

All at once Katharine wished she hadn’t said it. It came echoing back on
her like sound out of a dark cave. She didn’t like it. She was quite
pale as she said,

‘I don’t know.’

William said cheerfully, ‘We must take care not to get run over,’ and
she didn’t like that either. Then he kissed her and said they were going
to be late if they didn’t hurry.




                          Chapter Thirty-five


Mr. Tattlecombe took it hard. After saying that it was a blow but that
he supposed it was the Lord’s will, he ran both hands through his hair,
fixed round blue eyes upon William and Katharine, and observed that it
didn’t matter, because he was past the three score years and ten already
and it wouldn’t be for long. From there to a lonely deathbed, with no
one to close his eyes or so much as put up a stone, was an easy short
cut.

At just what point in the proceedings it occurred to Katharine that he
was enjoying himself, she didn’t quite know, but she found herself
holding his hand and saying, ‘Dear Mr. Tattlecombe, please don’t talk
like that or I shall cry.’

Abel was distinctly gratified. He sat there as pink and healthy as a
baby with his grey hair all fuzzed up and said there was no call to drop
a tear, because we must all come to it and there would be nobody left to
grieve.

William said firmly, ‘That’s not quite fair, Mr. Tattlecombe. There’s
Mrs. Salt, and there’s me, and Mrs. Bastable, and Miss Cole, and
Katharine—you know very well we’d all grieve. And now I’d like you to
listen to what I’ve been thinking. There’s that friend of Ernie’s, Jim
Willis——’ He proceeded to put forward his plan whilst Abel looked
blankly over the top of his head.

When he had finished what he had in mind to say, there was one of those
silences. It had prolonged itself to a really dreadful extent before Mr.
Tattlecombe broke it with a heavy sigh.

‘Very kind of you, William, and I’ve no doubt he’s a steady, good-living
young man—Ernie always did have the right sort of friends—but there’ll
be no need for an assistant in the grave.’

‘I wasn’t talking about the grave, I was talking about the shop, and
you’re going to need an assistant there. I don’t want you to think I’m
going to give up my interest or just walk out and leave you, because I
wouldn’t think of it. But you must see for yourself that there’ll be a
good deal of business to attend to with Eversleys, and that I’ll have to
attend to it personally. Now my idea would be to get Jim to come in as
soon as he can, so that I can put him in the way of things.’

By the time they left him the gloom had to some slight extent lifted.
There were fewer references to the tomb and to David’s rather gloomy
estimate as to the appropriate age for retirement to it. There were even
some gleams of interest in Jim Willis, and an early recollection or two
of his coming about the house with Ernie. In fact the worst was over.

Just before they went away Katharine said how kind it was of Mrs. Salt
to send them a pot of her apple honey.

Abel nodded.

‘She said she was going to. My cousin Sarah Hill sends it to her. I’ve
got a pot or two myself. Sarah won’t let on how it’s made, but she lets
us have some every year. Abby said something about bringing a pot round
here for you tomorrow. That Emily’s all right again, and she’s coming to
have tea with me. She said she’d bring it along then and leave it for
you. You’ll like it.’

Katharine said, ‘It’s lovely. We had some when we went to tea with her.
But we’ve had our pot already—we found it waiting for us when we got
back to the flat last night. I was going to ring Mrs. Salt up and thank
her, but William said she would rather have a letter, so I’m going to
write to her as soon as we get home. It was so very kind.’

Abel wagged his head.

‘She must have taken it round herself,’ he said. ‘But Sunday evening
she’d have been in chapel—never misses, wet or dry——’ He paused, and
then added, ‘William’s right about the telephone. It took a long time
before she’d have it put in, and she wouldn’t have had done it then if I
hadn’t put it to her that one or other of us might be took suddenly, and
no chance of a last word if it wasn’t for being able to call up and say
so.’

It was half-past twelve before William parked his car in the yard at
Eversleys and walked round the building to the front door. The factory
stood on the outer edge of the London fringe. It did not seem to have
suffered any bomb damage, but even from the outside it had rather a
going-down-hill appearance. His previous visit had been paid after dark.
He took time now to look about him. The neighbourhood had changed a good
deal. The big electrical works opposite was new. Marsdens, which had
towered up a couple of hundred yards away, was gone—the site cleared,
new foundations rising. Looked as if there had been a direct hit there.

When he had had a look round he went inside. This time he wasn’t going
to be put off with seeing Miss Jones. He went up the stairs and into the
outer office. A girl looked up from her typing, and he asked,

‘Is Mr. Cyril Eversley in?’

She said, ‘No.’

‘Mr. Brett?’

‘Yes.’

William said, ‘Then I’ll just go through and see him. You needn’t
announce me.’

He left her fluttering behind him and went out of the other door and
along the passage. Brett’s room used to be at the end. He wondered if he
had changed it.

Apparently not. There was his name on the door, like everything else a
good deal the worse for wear. He turned the handle and went in. This
time there wasn’t going to be any surprise. Cyril would have been on the
telephone—possibly Mavis too, but certainly Cyril. The only question
was how Brett was going to take it. There was just a moment after he got
inside the door, and then it was,

‘William—my dear chap!’ and his hand was being wrung.

Well, that was that, and a considerable relief. He looked at Brett, and
found him a little heavier, a little older, but essentially the same. In
face, after the first moment, it was difficult to see any change at all.
The warmth, the charm, were paramount.

‘My dear chap, I never was so pleased in my life! Cyril got me on the
telephone an hour ago—said he’d been trying to get hold of me ever
since you turned up yesterday. Well——’ he laughed with a sound of real
enjoyment—‘I was weekending, and one doesn’t hurry back on Monday
morning—at least I don’t. There isn’t all that business to attend to. I
wish there were. I’m afraid things aren’t quite what they were when you
went away.’

William said, ‘So I gathered from Cyril.’

Brett’s eyebrows rose. The dark eyes under them took on a rueful,
laughing expression.

‘We got through the war, but that’s about all you can say.’ The laughter
flickered out. ‘Look here, William, it’s no good making any bones about
it, we’re in the devil of a mess.’

There was a pause before William said,

‘What sort of a mess, Brett?’

Brett Eversley looked him straight in the face and said,

‘Katharine’s money’s gone.’

Katharine, waiting in the flat, picked up the telephone receiver and
heard William’s voice sounding rather faint and far away.

‘That you, Kath?’

She said, ‘Yes.’

‘Look here, darling, I can’t possibly get back to lunch. We’re up to the
eyes in business... Yes, Brett’s here. I’m speaking from his office.
We’re going into things together. Cyril’s still at Evendon. About that
appointment with Mr. Hall—I can’t keep it. Brett rang through and
caught him before he went out to lunch, so he knows I’m back, and I’ll
be seeing him tomorrow.’

‘When will you be home?’

‘I’ll try and make it by five—but don’t wait tea.’

She said, ‘Of course I will. We’ll have apple honey.’

She hung up and went back to the table, which was set for lunch. There
was a savoury stew in a casserole keeping hot in the kitchen, but the
cold shape was at the far end, and a little cut glass dish of Abigail
Salt’s apple honey. Katharine picked it up and put it away in the
glass-fronted cupboard. She wasn’t going to start on it without William.
She took out the remains of a pot of raspberry jam instead. Then she
went to the kitchen to fetch the casserole.

It was well after five before William came home. He looked at the
tea-table drawn up in front of the fire, at the whole warm glow of the
room, and at Katharine. Then he kissed her. She said,

‘How did you get on, darling?’

‘It’s the real devil of a mess, Kath.’

She said, ‘Well, don’t bother about it now. Have your tea.’

He kept his arm about her.

‘Presently.’ Then after a moment, ‘You know, I think Brett is really
glad I’m back.’

‘Was he—nice?’

William gave a sort of half laugh.

‘Perfectly charming. Brett’s got a brain if he’d use it. Cyril
hasn’t—at least not the kind that’s any good to himself or anyone else.
And I don’t mean that unkindly either. What I do mean is that Brett has
got brains enough to see that it would have to be one thing or the
other. I’d either got to be William Smith who was trying it on, or he’d
got to get busy with the fatted calf and all the trimmings—that was
obvious. And he wouldn’t want more than one look at me to see that the
William Smith idea wouldn’t wash, so he did the thing handsomely. And of
course it was very good business, because they’ve got themselves well on
to the wrong side of the law, and Brett doesn’t want to go to prison.’

Katharine said, ‘Oh——’

‘Your money’s gone, Kath.’

She said ‘Oh——’ again.

‘It was the old game. They took a bit to pull the firm round, and then
took more to bolster it up. They’d got to the point where they’d have
been ruined if you married. Brett skated away from that, but of course
it’s why he was trying to marry you.’

Katharine’s lip quivered.

‘There couldn’t be any other reason, could there, darling?’

‘Well, you said yourself he wasn’t in love with you,’ said William
reasonably. ‘Thank goodness! There are quite enough complications
without that. What I really set out to say was that I think Brett would
have put up a pretty good show of being glad to see me whether he was or
not, because he’s got brains enough to know which side his bread is
buttered. But I’ve got a hunch that he really was glad to see me. I
don’t think he could put on an act that would take me in.’

Katharine nodded. William always could see through people. He seemed so
simple and easy, and in a way he was, but he saw through most brick
walls. She said,

‘What are you going to do about them—about Brett and Cyril?’

‘Oh, Cyril can retire. Evendon, if it’ll run to it. He’s no use to the
firm. Brett——’ he grinned suddenly—‘Brett can turn on the famous
charm and go out and get us orders for the Wurzel toys. I’m going large
on them, and I think they’ll pull us out of the mess. Gosh, I’m hungry!
We had a sandwich lunch. Make the tea while I go and get washed.’

He came back to find Katharine standing at the table with the teapot in
her hand. But she wasn’t looking at it, she was looking at something on
the other side of the table. He got the impression that she had been
looking at it for some time—something about her expression, something
fixed. As he came up to her, she put the teapot down and said without
any expression at all,

‘There’s a dead fly.’

‘_Flies_—at this time of year?’

‘There are always some in the Mews—no proper larders, and people are
careless. But it’s dead.’

He said, ‘What——’ and all of a sudden her hand came out and caught at
his. The room was warm, but the hand was very cold. She said,

‘There’s another. Wait!’

They both looked at the table. Beyond Carol’s bright green lacquer tray
with the teapot, sugar-basin and cups there was a loaf of brown bread, a
plate of scones, a seed cake, a dish of butter pats, and the flat
cut-glass dish heaped with Abigail Salt’s apple honey. It was a lovely
translucent amber colour. There was a dead fly on it. As they stood
there looking, a second fly came buzzing and circling down. It settled
on the apple honey, plunged its tiny proboscis down on to the jelly,
quivered, and rolled over dead.

Katharine’s ice-cold hand stiffened on William’s warm one in a frantic
grip. Neither of them spoke. When the telephone bell rang Katharine’s
grip loosened. She went to the writing-table, lifted the receiver
mechanically. What she heard was Miss Silver’s voice.

‘Mrs. Eversley?’

‘Yes.’

‘You have received a pot of apple preserve from Mrs. Salt?’

‘Yes.’

‘Do not on any account partake of it. You have not done so?’

‘No.’

The tension was sufficiently relieved for Miss Silver to cough.

‘I am truly thankful to hear it. May I speak to Mr. William Eversley?’

William took the receiver. He put an arm round Katharine and heard Miss
Silver say,

‘There has been a very grave development. I am speaking from Selby
Street. We are awaiting the arrival of the police. I think that you and
Mrs. Eversley should come here at once. The matter concerns you deeply.
Will you bring with you the pot of apple preserve which Mrs. Eversley
tells me you have not tasted. It should not be touched with the hand,
but replaced in its wrappings in such a manner as not to disturb any
possible fingerprints.’

After a moment William said, ‘All right,’ and hung up. He and Katharine
stood looking at one another.




                           Chapter Thirty-six


Miss Silver had rung the front door bell of 176 Selby Street about half
an hour earlier. She came by appointment, and was most unwillingly
received. That she was received at all was due to the fact that in the
course of her brief telephone conversation with Mrs. Salt she had taken
it upon herself to quote Mr. Tattlecombe with some authority.

‘He would, I think, advise you to see me.’

Abigail’s voice came back stiffly.

‘I do not always follow my brother’s advice.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘In this instance you would, I think, be well advised to do so.’

‘Can you tell me why?’

‘He thought you would find it preferable to a more official visit.

Abigail Salt said in an expressionless voice,

‘You can come at five o’clock.’

Conducted to the upstairs parlour, Miss Silver seated herself and the
interview began. In her quiet, restrained manner, Mrs. Salt was
formidable. She took her own seat immediately below a grim photographic
enlargement representing her mother-in-law in an alarming widow’s cap
and a jetted chain strongly suggestive of a fetter. All the furniture in
this room had belonged to old Mrs. Salt. It was out of date, without
having attained to being antique, but it was solid and handsome, and had
cost quite a lot in its day. Amid these surroundings Abigail Salt felt
herself to be entrenched in the family tradition. The Salts had been
well-to-do, respectable chapel people for a hundred years, and that is
far enough for anyone to go back. The clock on the mantelpiece had come
from the Great Exhibition of 1851.

Miss Silver could appreciate both the atmosphere and Mrs. Salt’s
demeanour. She slightly inclined her head and observed,

‘It is very kind of you to see me.’

Receiving no reply, she pursued her theme.

‘Kind, and if I may say so, very wise.’

Abigail sat quite still with folded hands. She wore the dress reserved
for Sundays and tea-parties. She wore her Honiton lace collar and her
diamond brooch. These things gave her moral support. What she did not
know was that they told Miss Silver she felt in need of it. She looked
at her visitor’s well worn coat, at the rubbed fur about her neck, at
the black felt hat which she would have considered too shabby to go out
in, at the black woollen gloves which were such a contrast to the
fur-lined pair reposing in her bedroom drawer next door. When, in spite
of all this attention to all this detail, her eyes unwillingly returned
to Miss Silver’s face, she looked away again almost at once.

Miss Silver gave her slight cough.

‘I will be quite frank with you, Mrs. Salt. Mr. Tattlecombe asked me to
go and see him on Saturday evening, and when I did so he communicated to
me the substance of his conversation with you that afternoon.’

Abigail pressed her lips together so tightly that they became a mere
pale line. She said nothing.

Miss Silver continued,

‘You must, of course, be aware of the very serious nature of that
conversation. What you told Mr. Tattlecombe amounted to an admission
that it was your sister-in-law who assaulted Mr. William Smith. You
spoke of finding Mr. Tattlecombe’s raincoat wet, and the kitchen poker
out of its place and rusty.’

Abigail opened those closed lips and said,

‘I spoke to my brother in confidence.’

‘Mr. Tattlecombe is very much attached to Mr. Smith. He believes his
life to be in danger.’

‘That is absurd.’

‘I do not think so. On the occasion of your brother’s accident he
declared, and has since maintained, that he was “struck down”. That blow
was, I believe, intended for William Smith. The second attempt was the
one to which I have just referred. All the evidence points to Miss Salt
as the assailant. On the third occasion, which might very well have
proved fatal, William Smith was on his way back from a visit to this
house. He was pushed in the back with a stick whilst waiting to cross
the road from an island, and would have been thrown under a
motor-omnibus if he had not been saved by the promptitude and strength
of the gentleman next to him in the crowd. In the latest attempt one of
the wheels of his car was loosened.’

‘My sister-in-law knows nothing at all about cars. And she was laid up
all last week with an attack of influenza.’

‘So Mr. Tattlecombe informed me. I do not attribute the attack on your
brother or the attempt on the car to Miss Emily Salt. I believe that the
other two attempts can be attributed to her. You will see of course, as
I have done from the first, that two people are involved. Miss Emily
Salt is one of them. I have come to you to find out who is the other,
and what is the connection between them.’

Abigail Salt sat there in her handsome dress, the grey curls of her hair
neatly ordered, her eyes as round and blue as her brother’s, her cheeks
rosy, her lips unnaturally compressed. She opened them to say,

‘I can’t help you.’

Miss Silver looked at her very steadily.

‘I think you can. I do not wish to be misleading. When I say I have come
to you to find out who is the second person concerned in this affair, I
mean that I have come to you to discover the link between this person
and Miss Emily Salt. The person’s identity is known. Where you can help
me is——’

‘Miss Silver, I can’t help you.’

‘I believe you can.’

‘I know of no such person.’

Miss Silver put up a hand in its black woollen glove.

‘Mrs. Salt, I only ask that you will answer a few questions. If I do not
ask them, the police will do so.’

The colour deepened in Abigail’s cheeks.

‘You can ask your questions. I can’t say whether I can answer them.’

Miss Silver smiled gravely.

‘I feel sure that you will endeavour to do so. Pray do not think that I
do not appreciate the difficulty of your position. You have had a heavy
charge in the care of Miss Emily Salt. You cannot have fulfilled it
without being aware of certain things. Will you tell me whether she has
ever shown any tendency to violence before?’

There was a silence. When it had lasted some time Miss Silver said
gently,

‘I see.’

Abigail looked away.

‘It was a long time ago. She was jealous. I don’t want you to think it
was worse than it was. I had a maid in the house then—a very nice,
superior girl. She came to me and said that Emily had tried to push her
down the stairs. I have thought it best not to have a resident maid
since then. Emily gets jealous.’

‘And she was jealous of William Smith?’

‘My brother had made a will in his favour. She was vexed on my account.’

Miss Silver inclined her head.

‘I can see that she has been an anxious charge. These unstable
temperaments are easily moved to jealousy and passion. They fall readily
under the domination of a stronger will. I am seeking for evidence of
such a domination. This is where I feel that you can help me.’

Abigail said, ‘No.’

She got another of those grave smiles.

‘I hope you can, and that if you can you will. Come, Mrs. Salt—when you
look back, is there no one in the family, no friend or connection, with
such an influence as I have described? If you can think of anyone of the
sort, pray do not hesitate to tell me. You will not harm any innocent
person, and you may be protecting your sister-in-law as well as William
Smith. If, as I suspect, her peculiarities have been worked upon and she
has been used as a tool, she may be in very grave danger. A tool which
is no longer needed is quickly discarded by the criminal who has used
it, and the discard is apt to be final.’

The gravity of Miss Silver’s voice and expression shook Abigail Salt.
Her immobility was gone. She said in a different voice,

‘That sounds dreadful.’

The answer came back with an added gravity.

‘It might be even more dreadful than it sounds. Mrs. Salt, what
associates, what friends, what connections has your sister-in-law had?’

‘Very few. She doesn’t make friends. As long as my mother-in-law lived
she treated Emily as if she was a child. She was very stern with
her—she directed everything she did. She would never admit that there
was anything wrong. I think sometimes that if she had been differently
treated she might have been different. She wasn’t allowed to do the same
as other girls did. She hardly ever saw anyone outside the
family—unless you count going to chapel.’

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘As you say, Mrs. Salt, most unwise treatment. But if there were no
outside connections, was there perhaps anyone inside the family circle?’

‘There’s no one——’ She broke off and then went on again. ‘There was a
niece of hers—it’s some years ago now—Emily took one of her violent
fancies for her. She gets them sometimes—they make her very tiresome. I
was very glad when it faded.’

‘You say a niece?’

Abigail hesitated.

‘Well, in a way. That fact is I don’t know much about her. There was one
of my husband’s sisters made a runaway marriage and the quarrel was
never made up. I never met her, and the family never spoke about it.
Then just before the war Emily met a cousin who said that a daughter of
Mary’s had turned up. I forget how she’d come across her. She said she
recognized her from her likeness to my mother-in-law.’ Abigail half
turned and indicated the grim enlargement on the wall. ‘That’s how she
was when I knew her, but she was considered very good-looking when she
was young. You’d never think it, would you? Those enlargements don’t
flatter anyone, but I’ve got a photograph in that album over there that
shows you what she was like. I think her father was partly Italian. He
had a restaurant in Bristol and he’d an Italian name, but her mother was
English. Mary, the daughter who ran away, was like her, and by all
accounts her daughter was too.’

‘Yes, Mrs. Salt?’

‘Well, there isn’t much more. Emily went to see this May, and she took
one of her crazes about her. It was very tiresome indeed. Always running
round with pots out of my jam-cupboard, or half a chicken, or the best
part of a tongue, and no sooner any money in her pocket than it was out
of it again—gloves for May—stockings for May—handbags. I put up with
it because there wasn’t anything I could do and I hoped it would come to
an end of itself, because presents or no presents, I didn’t think anyone
would go on putting up with Emily for long—not unless they had to.’

The silence maintained through all the years of her life with Emily had
been forcibly broken. Through the breach there came flooding in the
realization of just what that association had cost Abigail Salt in
friendship, in service, in constant daily effort.

Miss Silver answered words which had not been spoken.

‘It must have been a great strain.’

Abigail said, ‘Yes.’ A fleeting expression of surprise crossed her face.
It may have been caused by her own recognition of what the strain had
been, or she may have been wondering how Miss Silver came to know about
it. After a moment she went on speaking.

‘May got tired of it—anyone would. There must have been a scene. Emily
came home in the worst state I’ve ever seen her in. I couldn’t do
anything with her. In the end I had to get the doctor, a thing I hadn’t
had to do since my husband died.’

‘What did he say, Mrs. Salt?’

Words which she had never repeated came from Abigail now.

‘He said she might do herself or someone else a mischief.’ Her colour
changed, the surprised look came back. She said, ‘I’ve never told anyone
before.’

‘Did he say anything else?’

‘He said she ought to be in a home. But she quieted down again and got
back to her usual.’

‘That was before the war?’

‘Just before—that July or August.’

‘And was that all? Was there no recurrence of the friendship?’

Abigail hesitated.

‘Well, that’s just what I can’t say. I’ve thought sometimes——’

‘Yes, Mrs. Salt?’

‘Well, there’s been something going on for the last two months, and I’ve
wondered if it was that May again or—somebody else. Emily’s taken to
slipping out in the evenings like she used to do—and not so natural in
the winter. If I asked her where she’d been, she’d put herself in a
state. I did put it to her point-blank, was she seeing May again, and
she said she wasn’t. But it was just the same thing all over
again—money just running away and food gone from the larder. There was
a whole shape once when I’d got someone coming to supper, and no longer
ago than this weekend a pot of my apple honey which I had set aside all
ready to leave at my brother’s for William Smith and his wife.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘Mrs. Salt, what is the name of this niece of Miss Emily Salt’s?’

‘May——’

‘But what surname?’

‘Well, I believe it is Woods—Mrs. Woods—or Wood—I can’t really say
which.’

‘And her maiden name?’

‘I really don’t know. Her mother ran away, as I told you, and the family
never mentioned her. And Emily always spoke of this daughter as May, and
to begin with when she spoke of her a good deal—I don’t know—I got the
idea—but perhaps I had better not say.’

Miss Silver said firmly, ‘I think it would be better if you did.’

A slight frown appeared upon Abigail’s smooth forehead.

‘Well, it was just an idea I got that there was something——’ She
hesitated, and then came out with, ‘not too respectable. There was a
good flat, and everything nice, but nothing about who the husband was or
what he did—only that he came there sometimes, and that if he was
coming May would ring up and put Emily off. I thought it sounded as if
there was something wrong, and after the first once or twice Emily
didn’t say anything more, and I thought perhaps she’d been told to hold
her tongue.’

There was a pause, after which Miss Silver said thoughtfully,

‘Mrs. Salt, have you ever heard of Eversleys?’

Abigail’s eyes remained perfectly blank. She said,

‘No——’ and then, ‘Mrs. Smith was a Miss Eversley.’

Miss Silver looked at her in a very searching manner.

‘William Smith is Mr. William Eversley. He has recovered his memory, and
has been recognized by members of his family. He has a controlling
interest in the firm, and there are some who may find his return
inconvenient. Do you know anything at all about this?’

Abigail said in a bewildered voice,

‘Oh, no—how could I?’

Miss Silver continued to look at her.

‘I should like to put that same question to Miss Emily Salt.’

‘To Emily?’

‘Yes please, Mrs. Salt.’

Abigail got up and went out of the room. She left the door open behind
her. Miss Silver heard her cross the passage and knock. After a moment
the knock was repeated, and after that there was the sound of an opening
door.

Abigail came back looking disturbed.

‘She must be out. Her coat is gone, and her hat. I don’t know why I
didn’t hear her go.’

Miss Silver said, ‘She may not have wished you to do so.’ And then,
‘Perhaps I may wait until she returns. I think you spoke of a photograph
of your mother-in-law. I should be interested to see it.’

The photograph-album lay, as it had done in old Mrs. Salt’s time, upon
the highly polished pedestal table which occupied the centre of the
room. In order that the polish might sustain no damage a crocheted
woollen mat, originally moss-green relieved with salmon but now all gone
away to a dim shade resembling lichen, had been interposed. The covers
of the album were very highly embossed, and linked by a massive gilt
clasp.

Drawing her chair to the table, Miss Silver watched with interest whilst
a succession of Salt portraits were displayed, all very glossy and in a
high state of preservation owing to the fact that they had hardly ever
been allowed to see the light of day. They were of two sizes, cabinet
and carte-de-visite, each photograph embedded in the thick cream-laid
boards which formed the pages of the album—young men with beards;
middle-aged men with muttonchop whiskers and the high wing collar
popularized by William Ewart Gladstone; a little girl with striped
stockings and a round comb in her hair, looking as if she had escaped
from one of Tenniel’s illustrations to _Alice in Wonderland_; ladies
with heavy braided skirts stretched over a crinoline; girls of the early
eighties in jutting bustles and little tilted hats; babies smothered in
pelisses; and dreadful little boys with curls and sailor suits.

At intervals Miss Silver murmured, ‘So interesting——’ With a case
mounting to its climax, she could still become absorbed in these pages
from a family history which was in miniature the history of a rather
splendid age. Here was a cross-section of the great middle class to
which England owes so much, constantly replenished on the one hand from
those who by dint of perseverance, push, and brains had fought their way
up from below, and on the other from those offshoots of the aristocracy
and landed gentry who as continually passed into it in the pursuit of a
livelihood in trade, farming, or one of the lesser professions.

Abigail turned a page and disclosed an empty space. Her smooth forehead
contracted. She said in a puzzled voice,

‘It should be here. Who can possibly have taken it out?’ And then in a
quick, vexed way, ‘It must have been Emily. She must have wished to show
it to May. She used to say there was a strong likeness. But it is really
very wrong of her—she shouldn’t have done it!’

It was at this moment that Emily Salt entered the house. The opening and
closing of the front door was plainly heard in the parlour. And then
there was a pause. Abigail closed the album and laid it back upon the
woolly mat. She rose to her feet and leaned over the table to fasten the
heavy gold clasp. All this occupied the shortest possible space of time,
but it was long enough.

Emily Salt shut the door behind her. She put her latchkey back in her
bag and took something else out. She went towards the foot of the
stairs.

Up in the parlour they heard her fall. With a startled look on her face
Abigail went to the door, opened it, and called over the banisters,

‘Emily!’

But the word was hardly out of her mouth before she was running down.
Miss Silver followed her. Emily Salt lay dead across the bottom step
with part of a stick of chocolate clutched in her gloved right hand.




                          Chapter Thirty-seven


Abigail got slowly to her feet. She had knelt beside the body, turned
the glove back from the wrist and felt for a pulse that was not there.
Now she stood up and put a hand on the newel-post to steady herself.

‘She’s dead——’

Miss Silver had been kneeling too. She also rose. Her face was very
grave.

Abigail said in an expressionless voice, ‘Her heart was all right—the
doctor said so——’

Miss Silver came to her.

‘You will want all your courage, Mrs. Salt. I fear that it was poison.’

‘Oh, no!’

‘I think cyanide. There is the suddenness, the appearance, and the
distinctive odour. We must not touch her or disturb anything. Scotland
Yard must be informed at once.’

Abigail Salt’s eyes had filled with tears. They had a bewildered look.
The tears began to run slowly down over her cheeks, which had lost
nearly all their rosy colour. She held on tightly to the newel and said,

‘But why?’

‘Can you not think of any reason, Mrs. Salt? Where is your telephone?
The police must be notified.’

Abigail said, ‘It’s here—in this downstairs room.’

They went into the sitting-room to which she had taken William Smith on
the night he was attacked. In a very brisk and businesslike manner Miss
Silver asked if she might speak with Sergeant Abbott or Chief Inspector
Lamb. When she heard Frank Abbott’s voice she said briefly,

‘A shocking fatality has occurred. I am speaking from 176 Selby Street.
Miss Emily Salt has just entered the house and dropped down dead. I
suspect cyanide.’

She heard him whistle at the other end of the line.

‘Suicide?’

‘I did not say so. The person who was to be watched—is there any
information from that quarter?’

‘Yes—let me see—Donald reported that she had returned to town at
midday yesterday.’

‘I already knew that.’

‘He followed her to her flat. You always know everything, but I just
wonder whether you know that she has been living there as Mrs. Woods.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘I have been suspecting it for the last half-hour. It supplies the link
for which I have been looking.’

As she hung up the receiver her mind was working rapidly. The
indispensable link had been established. Mavis Jones had been for
fifteen years a confidential secretary. It appeared that she was now
Mrs. Cyril Eversley, but that for a good many years out of the fifteen
she had occupied a very comfortable flat as Mrs. Woods. And Mrs. Woods
was Mary Salt’s daughter and Emily Salt’s niece, May. She stood there
thinking of Emily Salt’s abnormal mentality, her crazy devotion to this
new-found niece, its fading—and its recurrence about two months ago.

About two months ago—when William Smith had paid a visit to Eversleys
and been recognized by the old clerk. About two months ago—when Mr.
Tattlecombe had been struck down and Mr. Yates had heard the casualty in
the bed next to him mutter something that might have been ‘Joan’ or
‘Jones’, and then, ‘She pushed me.’ That was the beginning of it—death
of Mr. Davies—accident to Mr. Tattlecombe. Attacks on William
Smith—the tampering with his car—that was how it went on. And now the
death of Emily Salt. Was that the end?

Emily Salt was dead—thought focused on that. Why? She thought Emily had
been an instrument, and that the instrument had been discarded. When do
you discard an instrument? The answer appeared in a very bright light.
When it has done its work—when it might be dangerous to keep it. But
the work for which this instrument had been required was the destruction
of William Smith.

An instrument is only discarded when its work is done and it would be
dangerous to keep it.

What work?

The destruction of William Smith.

How?

Into that very bright light in her mind there came a single word. It was
the word with which she had accounted to Abigail for the death of Emily
Salt.

Cyanide.

Perhaps concealed in the stick of chocolate still clasped in her hand.
Cyanide can be concealed in other things beside chocolate. Quick and
clear came the picture of Abigail Salt telling her about the pot of
apple honey. ‘A pot of my apple honey which I had set aside all ready to
leave at my brother’s for William Smith and his wife.’

She turned upon Abigail.

‘Mrs. Salt, you missed a pot of apple honey.’

There was a look of surprise, a slight start. The words seemed so
irrelevant, the occasion so trifling.

‘Yes.’

‘You told me that you had put it aside. Did you mean that it was packed
up?’

‘Yes, I had done it up all ready to take.’

‘Was there any message enclosed?’

‘Just a line, “With kind regards—Abigail Salt.” Miss Silver——’

Miss Silver was opening her bag. She took out a notebook, consulted it,
found the telephone number she required, and dialled with steady
fingers. When she heard the receiver lifted at the other end of the line
she spoke. Her voice was steady too,

‘Mrs. Eversley?’

No one but herself was to know with what a feeling of thankfulness she
heard Katharine’s voice say, ‘Yes.’




                          Chapter Thirty-eight


Sudden death has its own dreadful routine. Those who serve it came into
Abigail Salt’s house and went about their business there without
reference to her—Detective Sergeant Abbott, a police surgeon, a police
photographer, a fingerprint man. Miss Silver sat with Abigail in the
upstairs parlour whilst they were at their work. Presently Katharine
joined them there. William was making a statement downstairs. They had
put an outer covering right over the pot of apple honey and its contents
and brought it with them. They had brought the little cut-glass dish
heaped up with amber jelly, the two dead flies still lying on it.

Katharine was very white and still. She went over to Abigail Salt and
took her hand.

‘I’m so sorry, Mrs. Salt—so dreadfully sorry. She couldn’t have known
what she was doing.’

Abigail looked at her.

‘I put it out all ready to take round when I went to see Abel tomorrow.
She must have taken it last night when I was at chapel. But I never
thought——’

‘You mean the apple honey? It was very good of you.’ An uncontrollable
shudder went over her. She let go of Abigail’s hand, looked round for a
chair, and sat down.

Abigail Salt said in a steady, expressionless voice,

‘I don’t suppose any of us will ever fancy it again.’

Katharine’s ungloved hands took hold of one another. She said very low,

‘William was late. I was vexed because he was so late, but it saved his
life. We were going to have the apple honey for tea—I had put it out in
a little glass dish. Then William came, and we talked. I saw there was a
dead fly on the honey. Then we saw another one come down and settle.’
The shudder came back. ‘It just fell over dead. Then Miss Silver rang.’

Miss Silver coughed briskly.

‘A most providential escape, dear Mrs. Eversley. Let us be thankful for
it.’

At this moment the door opened and Sergeant Abbott looked in. He caught
Miss Silver’s eye and beckoned her. She went out.

‘Look here,’ he said, ‘the doctor seems pretty sure about its being
cyanide. I gather that you know about this pot of apple honey the
Eversleys have brought along. It seems to have killed two flies, and was
probably intended to kill them. Emily Salt’s fingerprints are all over
the wrappings and the pot. I don’t suppose there’s much doubt that she
conveyed the parcel to Rasselas Mews. William Eversley says they found
it on the doorstep on Sunday night when they got back from Ledstow. But
there was a message from Mrs. Salt inside——’ He paused and looked at
Miss Silver.

She said in her firmest voice,

‘Yes, she was intending to leave it at the Toy Bazaar for them. She was
having tea there with her brother tomorrow. It was all ready packed up.’

Frank looked at her with his faint quizzical smile. ‘What a mine of
information you are! But here is something that I can tell you, and I
think you’ll be interested. I told you Donald was shadowing Miss Jones.
You did a very good bit of work there, getting the Chief to agree to
it.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘I considered it of the very first importance.’

‘I think you were right. She went off down to Evendon with Cyril
Eversley on Saturday afternoon. The village fairly buzzed with the news
that they were married. Donald put up at the Duck and heard all about
it. General verdict that Cyril had made a fool of himself. Sunday
morning Donald hung about—saw the William Eversleys arrive—didn’t of
course know who they were. Saw another young couple roll up. Cyril’s
daughter and her husband, William tells me, though Donald wasn’t to know
that either. And then in a brace of shakes out comes Mrs. Cyril Eversley
in her brand new car, and Donald grabs his motor-bike and follows her
all the way to her flat. That’s when he finds out that she’s been living
there as Mrs. Woods. Well, he rings up and reports. Evans goes along to
relieve him at about four o’clock. The lady hasn’t shown up, but it
looks as if she’s going out again, because her car is still outside. She
comes out about six and drives off. Evans follows her. She pulls up in
Morden Road, just round the corner from Selby Street. A woman comes
along with a parcel and gets in. Evans hears her say, “I’ve got it.”
They drive off together, and Evans follows them to a cul-de-sac behind
Rasselas Mews—only of course he’s not thinking about the Mews, because
he’s been put on to watch Mrs. Cyril Eversley.’

‘Yes, Frank?’

‘Evans was puzzled. They just sit in the car. It’s a dark place,
practically unlighted. He can’t make out what they’re doing. He strolls
past once, and thinks they are opening a parcel. It doesn’t seem to be
his business. Presently the passenger gets out and goes off round the
corner with her parcel, and Mrs. Eversley goes home. She parks her car,
and doesn’t show up again. Grey takes over at midnight. Nothing doing.
Evans on again this morning. Mrs. Eversley doesn’t show up. Donald on
again at four. I’ve asked them to contact him and telephone his report
to me here.’

As he spoke, William Eversley came up the stairs and the telephone bell
rang. William went into the parlour. Frank and Miss Silver went down to
the ground floor room where the telephone was.

The body of Emily Salt was gone from the hall. A constable in uniform
came out of the sitting-room and said, ‘For you, Sergeant.’

Frank crossed the floor and took up the receiver. Miss Silver, standing
just inside the door, could hear the measured rise and fall of a deep
male voice. It was, in her opinion, the voice of Chief Inspector Lamb, a
circumstance which engaged her most interested attention.

Frank Abbott said, ‘Yes, sir.’ And then, ‘Not much doubt about its being
cyanide.’ After a pause he said, ‘No, they’re all right. They had a
narrow shave—a pot of poisoned honey. Holt’s taken it off for analysis
... Yes, they’re here. It was a very narrow shave.’ Finally, after a
considerable interval, ‘Well, that just about puts the lid on it! ...
All right, sir, we’re finishing here.’ He hung up and turned.

Miss Silver had closed the door. She said,

‘Well, Frank?’

‘That was the Chief.’

‘So I supposed.’

‘Could you hear what he was saying?’

Her glance reproved him.

‘I made no endeavour to do so.’

‘But you wouldn’t mind if I were to tell you?’

‘I should be very much interested.’

‘Well then, here you are. I think we’ve got her cold. Donald says she
came out just after five, went round and collected her car—she keeps it
in a garage just behind the flats—and went off to the same place as
before, Morden Road. The same woman came to meet her. Evans couldn’t see
her face, but the description fits Emily Salt—tall and thin, shapeless
coat, squashed-down hat. She got into the car. He heard her say, “I
can’t stay. Abby doesn’t know I’m out.” Mrs. Cyril Eversley said
something, but he didn’t hear what it was. The door was shut, and they
sat in the car and talked for about five minutes. Then Emily Salt got
out. She stood with the door in her hand and said, “It’s ever so good of
you, May. I love chocolate.” Mrs. Cyril leaned across from the
driving-seat, and this time Donald heard what she said. It’s pretty
damning. She said, “Mind you don’t eat it in the street. You won’t, will
you?” Emily Salt said, “No, no, I’ll put it in my bag. I won’t eat it
till I get in.” Then she said, “I’ll be seeing you soon, won’t I?” and
Mrs. Cyril said, “Oh, yes.” And that was all. Emily Salt went back round
the corner into Selby Street and into the house, where she ate her
chocolate and died. And Mrs. Cyril Eversley went home with the
comfortable feeling that she had disposed of all her worries. If William
Eversley was poisoned by the apple honey which Mrs. Salt had sent him,
and Emily Salt committed suicide with the same poison, it was all very
distressing, but everyone knew that Emily had always been crazy, and
that she had a spite against William because Mr. Tattlecombe had made a
will in his favour instead of leaving what he had to Abigail, and so
indirectly to Emily herself. Mrs. Cyril must be feeling quite sure that
no one can possibly connect her with Emily or with the crime. And if you
hadn’t practically blackmailed the Chief into having her followed, she
would be perfectly right.’

Miss Silver looked quite horrified.

‘My dear Frank—blackmail—what a shocking expression!’

That faint smile reached his eyes.

‘Revered preceptress——’ he murmured, and then was grave again. ‘The
Chief is sending Donald along to arrest her now,’ he said grimly.




                          Chapter Thirty-nine


Frank Abbott had been perfectly right about Mavis Eversley. She was
feeling extremely well pleased with herself. Difficulty after difficulty
had presented itself—you might even say reverse after reverse—but she
had not allowed herself to be discouraged. She had persevered, and now
awaited the confirmation of a triumphant success. Thinking it all over,
she could not see where the plan could go wrong. There was, of course,
just the bare possibility that the apple honey would kill Katharine and
leave William alive. It was a possibility and she faced it, but it was
so very unlikely. Katharine would be making the tea, pouring it out,
looking after William. He would almost certainly begin eating before she
did. He always had an excellent appetite. There had been family jokes
about his fondness for jam. She felt comfortably sure that he would be
in a hurry to help himself to Abigail Salt’s apple honey. The minute
Emily had mentioned it in one of her grumbles she had known that it was
just the thing to do the trick. She would be rid of William and of Emily
by the same clever stroke. William had got to go. Cyril and Brett might
be fools enough to think they could do a patched-up deal with him. Brett
and his ‘We’re all falling on each other’s necks and killing fatted
calves,’ when she called him up this morning at the office! More idiots
they, and poor-spirited idiots at that! They would just be under
William’s thumb for ever and ever, and never dare say ‘Bo!’ to him. But
even if she could bring herself to it, none of that was going to get
Mavis Jones out of the mess. William wasn’t Cyril or Brett—nobody was
going to throw any dust in his eyes. He was one of the thorough kind,
and he was as good at figures as she was herself. When he came to go
into the books it wouldn’t take him long to find out what she’d been
doing for the last seven years, and when he found out, she didn’t think
he was going to have much mercy, or that either Brett or Cyril would
lift a finger to save her. They were none too secure themselves, and to
put it bluntly, she’d been robbing them for years.

No—William was bound to go. And the way she’d brought it off, she got
rid of Emily too. And just about time—ringing her up everytime Abigail
went out, pouring out her crazy spite about men, about William—thank
goodness she only knew him as William Smith—about Abel Tattlecombe and
his will. What a crashing bore! She could be dangerous too if she went a
little bit more crazy and tattled to Abigail. She hadn’t done it so far.
Emily was secretive—liked to feel no one knew about ‘May’. Heavens, how
she hated the name—the crazy, smarmy way of going on, the whining,
grumbling voice on the telephone! How she hated Emily Salt!

By this time, with any luck at all, she was rid of her, and rid of
William too, and without one atom of risk. She had never let Emily come
to the flat. She used to come to her old place seven years ago—that was
when she was having her affair with Brett—but never here, never once.
They had met, when it was necessary, in some out of the way tearoom, but
there had been as little of it as possible. It would be quite a clear
case. A crazy woman would have poisoned William Eversley and then
committed suicide. The only person to be blamed would be Abigail Salt
who ought to have had her put away in a home years ago. That would be
the end of it, and very nice too. William gone, Emily gone, and that
damned Salt family pride in the dust. They had turned her mother
out—they hadn’t cared whether the child lived or died. And who came out
on top now?

Her thoughts slid to Katharine. She had kept her to the last.
Katharine—Sylvia’s pretty, angry voice rang in her ears—‘And who told
you you could call her Katharine?’ If she had needed to have her purpose
edged, that slap in the face would have done it. From the business point
of view she wanted Katharine dead, because there would never be any
question of those trust funds then—they came back to Cyril and Brett.
But as far as her own private feelings went, it would be a considerable
satisfaction to them to let Katharine live and suffer.

She turned to thinking of the future. She would make it up with Cyril of
course, and they must pull the firm out of the mess. It could be done.
Those toys of William’s—they had better take them up. Properly handled
and pushed, there would be big money in them. Every child in the country
would be wanting them. Even under the urgent pressure of danger it had
outraged her business sense to turn them down as she had had to do in
December. Now they could go straight ahead with them. She looked on and
saw her own firm hands on the reins at Eversleys. She had a sense of
power, domination, success. The way lay straight and open before her.
She had never had anyone to help her except herself—her own wits, her
own courage, her own skill in shaping the event to serve her purpose.
And this was where it had brought her.

The front door bell jarred suddenly in the silence of the flat. For a
moment she wasn’t sure whether it was the telephone. She thought of
Brett, of Cyril—ringing up to say William was dead. Then the bell rang
again, and she knew it was the front door.

Cyril? No—Brett said he was still at Evendon this morning—he wasn’t
coming up. But it might be Brett——

She opened the door, and saw two strange men standing there. One of them
stepped forward. His hand dropped on her shoulder. He said her name, and
he got as far as ‘I have a warrant for your arrest,’ and then she
twisted free, everything in her shrieking, ‘No—no—_no_!’ She reached
the bedroom, banged the door, and locked it. There was time. There was
just, just time.

When they broke the lock, she was there on the floor. Dead like Emily
Salt.




                             Chapter Forty


In the next few days two inquests were held in two separate districts of
London. Neither of them took long or attracted very much attention. The
verdict in each case was suicide whilst the balance of the mind was
disturbed. There was apparently nothing to connect May Woods, 39,
married, with Emily Salt, 58, single, except the fact that they had both
poisoned themselves by taking cyanide.

Where justice has no end to be served, it is not the policy of the
police to provide the public with a dish of scandal at the expense of
innocent survivors. Since neither Evans nor Donald was called as a
witness, there was simply nothing to connect the two deaths. In the case
of Emily Salt, the doctor who had attended her during a recent attack of
influenza stated that she was, he considered, decidedly unhinged, and
that he had advised her sister-in-law that it might be better if she
could be placed under some restraint. Mrs. Salt and Miss Silver deposed
to hearing her enter the house, and to finding her dead at the foot of
the stairs. The police surgeon gave evidence as to the cause of death,
and that was all. There was no mention of a pot of apple honey.

At the inquest on Mrs. Woods it was stated that on receiving a visit
from a police officer she locked herself in her room, and when the door
was broken down she was found to have taken a fatal dose of poison. The
Coroner enquired whether Mrs. Woods had reason to suppose that she would
be arrested. On receiving an affirmative reply he asked whether the
police had any further evidence to offer, and was told that they had
not. The deceased was identified as Mrs. May Woods by the caretaker of
the block of flats in which she had resided for the past five years.

At Eversleys it became known that Miss Jones was dead. Cyril Eversley
wore a black tie and stayed away from the office. He had been too
profoundly shocked to realize that before very long he would be
experiencing an almost equal degree of relief.

On the day after the two inquests Miss Silver dispensed coffee and
conversation to Frank Abbott and to William and Katharine. It was icy
cold outside, with a north wind full of little pricking points of snow,
but Miss Silver’s room with its blue plush curtains drawn, a fire
blazing, and cakes and coffee displayed beside it, was bright and
comfortable. A warm, cheerful light illumined the patterned wall-paper,
the photogravures in their yellow maple frames, Miss Silver’s gallery of
photographs, and Miss Silver herself in a utility silk purchased in the
last year of the war and worn one year for Sundays, a second for every
day, and now come down to evening wear with the addition of a black
velvet coatee—a most comfortable and treasured garment, so
time-honoured as to verge upon the legendary.

Frank Abbott, very much off duty, looked across at William and said,

‘Good production, don’t you think? No fuss, no scandal, no headlines in
the papers—in fact what the eye doesn’t see the heart needn’t grieve
over.’

William said, ‘Yes, it was a good show—very well managed. We’re very
grateful. You can’t afford that sort of publicity when you’re trying to
get a business on its legs again.’

Frank lifted his coffee-cup.

‘Well, here’s luck——’ his eyes went to Katharine—‘to you both.’

She smiled at him.

‘You’ll come and see us sometimes, won’t you?’

‘I’d like to—if I shan’t have unpleasant associations. You’ve had a
rotten time.’

She shook her head.

‘The bad part’s gone. We’ll keep the friends we’ve made—Mr.
Tattlecombe, and Mrs. Salt, and Miss Silver, and you.’

Miss Silver smiled, then gave her slight cough.

‘I saw Mrs. Salt this afternoon. She told me one or two things which
interested me extremely. I had been trying to think where this series of
crimes and attempted crimes could really be said to have begun. In
nearly every case one finds that the seed of a crime has been present in
thought for a long time before it germinates and passes into action.
There are, perhaps, years during which selfish, ruthless, ambitious, and
despotic tendencies could, and should, be checked and eliminated. In the
case of Emily Salt, in the case of Mavis Jones, we have to go a long way
back. When I went to see Mrs. Salt I was very much struck by an enlarged
portrait of her mother-in-law, Mrs. Harriet Salt, the mother of Emily
and the grandmother of Mavis Jones. The features must always have been
marked. In youth, Mrs. Salt tells me, they were remarkably handsome. But
they had become harsh. The face as actually pictured was that of a
ruthless despot. I learned this afternoon that the camera had not
traduced her. It was under her iron domination that Emily Salt became
the warped creature that she was. She might never have been very bright,
but she need not have been repressed, thwarted, and bullied. With
kindlier treatment her affections could have been developed and useful
occupations found for her. She was not allowed to make friends, so all
her capacity for affection was dammed up and became abnormal,
manifesting itself in a crazy devotion which could only prove unwelcome
to its object. A very sad case.’

Frank Abbott lifted a quizzical eyebrow.

‘Is the late Miss Mavis Jones, alias May Woods, a sad case too?’

Miss Silver looked at him gravely.

‘I think so, Frank. She was a wicked and unscrupulous woman. She might
have been something very different. Her mother, as you know, was Mary
Salt, Harriet Salt’s eldest daughter. She was, by all accounts, a
handsome, high-spirited girl with a strong resemblance to her mother.
When Abigail Salt first mentioned her she spoke of a runaway marriage,
but I learned this afternoon that so far as the family knew no marriage
had taken place. Mary Salt was going to have a child, and her mother
turned her out. No one knows what happened to her or to her child for
several years after that. Her name was never mentioned. The family
closed its ranks. For what follows, Emily Salt is the authority. When
she was seeing a good deal of her niece just before the war she told
Abigail that Mary Salt, after working her fingers to the bone to keep
her child, had married a man called Jones, an elderly valetudinarian. I
think he had been a schoolmaster. Mavis got a secondary school
education, matriculated, and took a course in typing and shorthand. Her
mother died when she was sixteen. Mr. Jones was then quite sunk in
invalidism, and the sister who came to look after him turned Mavis out.
This is, of course, her own account. She must have been about
twenty-three when she entered your firm’s employment, Mr. Eversley. She
had excellent abilities, a prepossessing appearance, and assured
manners. She became Mr. Cyril Eversley’s secretary—in what year?’

William said, ‘’Thirty-seven or ’thirty-eight. She was very efficient.’

‘Oh, yes—a clever, efficient woman who came to rely on her own
cleverness and efficiency to such an extent that she allowed these
qualities to dominate her. I do not know, Mr. Eversley, whether you have
yet been able to make a thorough examination of the books of your firm,
but I would advise you to do so. I can only account for her subsequent
actions on the supposition that your return to the firm would have
involved her in criminal proceedings.’

William said, ‘Yes, I think so.’

Miss Silver coughed and proceeded.

‘Her marriage to Mr. Cyril Eversley was, of course, designed to afford
her some protection. But it was not enough. She must have been conscious
of defalcations too serious to be condoned. We now come to the tragic
affair of Mr. Davies. I think we must conclude, Mr. Eversley, that when
Mavis Jones opened your typed letter asking for an interview she
received a shock. You signed it in your own handwriting, William Smith.
She must have seen the first part of that signature too often not to
have been struck by it. With only one word to go on, she could not be
sure, but she was enough impressed to give you an appointment at an hour
when neither of the partners would be there and the staff would be
preparing to leave.’

William said, ‘One of the girls in the office remembers her pushing
Davies off early. As a matter of fact she defeated her own ends. She
hustled him, he forgot something, and he came back for it. That’s what
he told you, wasn’t it, Kath?’

She said, ‘Yes.’

‘That’s when he ran into me. Of course I didn’t know him from Adam. The
poor old chap went away feeling quite dazed and rang Katharine up. She
isn’t sure whether she told him not to say anything or not. She wrote it
to him next day, but he never got the letter.’

Miss Silver had picked up her knitting. The two blue coatees were
finished and packed up ready for the post. A cardigan for the baby’s
mother, her niece Ethel Burkett, was now upon the needles. About half an
inch of deep bright cherry-red could be discerned—most warm, most
cheerful, most comfortable. Knitting rapidly and without effort, she
gave it a passing glance of admiration and reverted to the analysis of
crime.

‘If Mr. Davies had been more reticent, there is very little doubt that
he would have been alive today. I think there can be no doubt that he
sought Miss Jones out and told her of his encounter. She probably tried
to make him believe that he had been deceived by some chance
likeness—she may even have commented on it herself. But when she
discovered that he was in possession of her visitor’s address she must
have decided that it was all too dangerous. Consider the evidence of Mr.
Yates who occupied the bed next to that in which poor Mr. Davies died.
The official account stated that he had passed away without speaking,
which of course only meant that the nurses had not heard him speak. Mr.
Yates, however, heard him say three things—the first a name which he
took to be Joan or Jones, and after that two disconnected sentences,
“She didn’t believe me,” and, “She pushed me.” I think there can be no
doubt that Mavis Jones followed him from the office and found the
opportunity she was looking for. He was pushed under a car and fatally
injured. On that same evening Mr. Tattlecombe met with a very similar
accident. Here we have no direct evidence. One can only weigh the
probabilities and draw an inference. I think that Mavis Jones went down
to Ellery Street that night to have a look at the lie of the land. I do
not think it probable that she had any definite plan. It is possible,
but I do not think that the probabilities lie that way. It was getting
on for half-past ten at night, and she had no means of knowing whether
William Smith lived on the premises, but, as it must have seemed to her
perverted mind, fortune favoured her. The door opened and a man came out
and crossed the pavement. She would have seen him as a dark shape
against the light of the open door. In height and build he resembled
William Smith. It must be remembered that though she would know Mr.
Tattlecombe quite well by name as the brother of Abigail Salt, she had
never seen him. What she saw now was a strong, upright figure, and the
light striking upon a thick head of light-coloured hair. Mr.
Tattlecombe’s hair is grey, and Mr. Eversley’s is fair. I think they
would look very much the same at night with the light coming from
behind. Mr. Tattlecombe has always maintained that he was “struck down”.
I believe Mavis Jones pushed him, as she had pushed Mr. Davies.’

Katharine said, ‘It sounds too horribly cold-blooded.’

Miss Silver continued to knit with great rapidity.

‘It is a commonplace to say that one crime leads to another—“The lust
of gain in the heart of Cain,” as Lord Tennyson so aptly says. And, if I
may quote from a modern writer, “If you take the first step, you will
take the last.”’

Before the picture of Kipling as a modern the three young people sat
dumb. Unconscious, Miss Silver pursued her theme.

‘We do not know when Mavis Jones discovered her mistake. She must have
thought it too dangerous to repeat the attempt immediately, and she does
not seem to have known that Mrs. William Eversley had obtained a
situation at the Toy Bazaar.’

Katharine smiled faintly.

‘I told the family that I’d taken a job and was going away, and I didn’t
give anyone my address. But——’ she hesitated—‘they did get to know
where I was. At least Brett did—I don’t know how.’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked.

‘I think Mr. Brett Eversley rang you up late on Friday evening—the day
before you married Mr. William Smith.’ She brought out the name with a
smile.

Katharine said, ‘Yes.’

‘You had, I believe, taken tea with Mrs. Salt and Mr. Tattlecombe at
Selby Street that afternoon. Your address was by that time known to
them, and therefore to Emily Salt.’

‘I suppose so.’

William said, ‘Mr. Tattlecombe had known the address for a day or two.
Miss Cole had it when we engaged Katharine. She went to Mr. Tattlecombe
to complain that I was going to see Katharine in the evenings. It wasn’t
her business of course, but Mrs. Bastable must have said something, and
Miss Cole got worked up—she’s like that. Anyhow Mrs. Salt came to the
wedding, so there wasn’t any secret about the address by then.’

The strip of cherry-coloured wool on Miss Silver’s needles had
lengthened. She said,

‘Precisely. I think there can be very little doubt that Emily Salt rang
up Mavis Jones, and that Mavis Jones immediately imparted the
information to Mr. Brett Eversley. I do not know whether she had a
grudge against him, or whether she considered that protestations of
devotion on his part might ease the situation as regards the firm.’

William said, ‘It might be a bit of both. He used to run round with her.
But Brett wasn’t in this business, you know. He wouldn’t have let
himself be used like that if he’d known I was alive—I would like that
to be quite clear to everyone. My cousins have both welcomed me back,
though it has put them in an awkward position financially. Whatever
Mavis Jones was doing, it was all off her own bat.’

Miss Silver inclined her head.

‘From what Mrs. Salt tells me it is evident that Miss Jones was not
idle. The intimacy with Emily Salt had been resumed as far back as
December. In this manner Mavis would know when Mr. Tattlecombe came to
Selby Street for a period of convalescence, and she would be informed of
any developments regarding William Smith. It was not hard for her to
work up Emily Salt’s grievance over Mr. Tattlecombe’s will into a state
which induced the poor unbalanced woman to make her two attempts upon
Mr. Eversley’s life.’

William said, ‘Those were Emily—I thought so all along. You know, I
picked up a note on the pavement after the first one. It was from Mrs.
Salt to Mr. Tattlecombe, and I couldn’t think how it got there.’

Miss Silver coughed gently.

‘She wore Mr. Tattlecombe’s raincoat and used the kitchen poker. Mrs.
Salt found the coat quite wet, and the poker rusty. You had a most
providential escape, both then and when she endeavoured to push you off
the island. The next attempt—the one in which the wheel of your car was
loosened—was, I imagine, the work of Miss Jones. She had driven a car
for some years. I use the word imagine advisedly, because the only
evidence about this attempt is of a negative character. It could not
have been the work of Emily Salt, since she was in bed at the time with
a sharp attack of influenza. One of the difficulties of the case has
been that two separate motives were apparent, and two entirely different
suspects. Emily Salt had no possible interest in the attack on Mr.
Davies, and a definite alibi for the time of Mr. Tattlecombe’s
accident—she was present with Mrs. Salt at a chapel Social. She also
had an alibi on the occasion of the attempt on the car. And it did not
appear possible to connect Mavis Jones with the two attacks on Mr.
Eversley, since both his visits to Mr. Tattlecombe were unpremeditated,
and she could not have known of them beforehand. At the same time I felt
quite unable to believe that there was no connection between these two
sets of attempts on Mr. Eversley’s life. There had to be a link, and I
went to Mrs. Salt to find out what it was.’ She turned to Frank Abbott
with a smile. ‘Excellent work done by Detective Donald and Detective
Evans helped to make the whole position clear. In the light of their
evidence I think there can be no doubt at all that Mavis Jones rang
Emily Salt up on the Sunday evening. She would know that it was quite
safe to do so, as Mrs. Salt never missed evening chapel. During that
conversation she told Emily to meet her just round the corner in Morden
Road, thus avoiding the possibility of her car being seen in Selby
Street. Either at this time, or perhaps on some previous occasion, Emily
must have mentioned the pot of apple honey. It would be a grievance that
this very special preserve should be given away, and to the very people
of whom she already felt a crazy jealousy. What is certain is that she
was told to bring the pot of apple honey with her, and that she did so.
Detective Evans actually saw the parcel being unwrapped while the two
women were sitting in the car in the cul-de-sac behind Rasselas Mews. I
feel sure that Mavis Jones avoided touching it, but that she
superintended the proceedings and supplied the cyanide. As you will have
heard, analysis shows that practically the whole of the poison must have
been in the top of the jar and had been decanted into the little
cut-glass dish which Mrs. William Eversley set out upon her tea-table.
How the cyanide was obtained, we do not know.’

William frowned and said, ‘My cousins tell me there was a wasps’ nest
outside the office window last summer—some cyanide was bought to deal
with it.’

Miss Silver gave a reproving cough.

‘There should be more restraint upon the sale of these dangerous
poisons. Procedure is at present sadly lax. A great deal of crime would
be avoided if the means were not to hand. Miss Jones probably had no
evil intentions when she put the surplus cyanide away. She may have
forgotten that she had done so. She may have come across it by accident,
or she may have remembered it—we have no means of knowing. But if she
had not had this poison ready to her hand she might not have resolved
upon this last, most ruthless crime which would rid her of Mr. William
Eversley and of Emily Salt by a single stroke and leave her, as she
supposed, in a position of complete security.’ She paused for a moment
and sighed. ‘The triumphing of the wicked is short. It is all very sad,
very regrettable, but I think we now know how it happened. As I said
before, some excellent work has been done. I trust that Chief Detective
Inspector Lamb is aware of how much I have valued his very kind
co-operation.’

Frank Abbott bent over the fire, poker in hand, his face not quite under
control. He had a picture of Lamb with empurpled cheeks and bulging eyes
being graciously thanked for his co-operation. Maudie was
marvellous—she really was. From her moralizings to her quotations from
the moderns(!), from her strict hair-net to the toes of her beaded
shoes, she was unique and he adored her. Her reproving cough came to his
ears.

‘My dear Frank, you are really spoiling the fire. It did very well as it
was.’

William and Katharine walked home together. Curious how quickly a place
could become home when you were happy there. This wasn’t Carol’s flat
any more—it was theirs, it was home. Because wherever they were
together would be home. Coming into it with Katharine, William got the
feeling he had always had when he came into the house in his dream—the
feeling of safety, the feeling of something shared, the feeling of home.
He couldn’t put it into words. He could only put his arms round
Katharine and hold her close.




                           
