Mary Stuart wrote, ‘My end is in my beginning.’ It is easier to agree
with her than to decide what is the beginning, and what the end. When
Miss Silver came down to Melling on a visit to an old school friend she
became involved in a story which had begun a long time before, and whose
end may yet be quite unknown, since what happened yesterday must needs
affect today and set out a pattern for tomorrow. It is not, of course,
necessary to follow the pattern, but is sometimes easier, and ease is
always tempting.

Just where does the story begin—twenty-five years before, when two
young girls went to a dance and met the same young man? A fair girl who
was Catherine Lee, and a dark girl who was Henrietta Cray—Catherine and
Rietta, distant cousins, schoolfellows, and bosom friends, eighteen
years of age, and James Theodulph Lessiter, just turned twenty-one.
Perhaps it begins there, or perhaps still farther back when three
generations of Lessiters took whatever they wanted from the world and
paid out of a steadily dwindling capital till in the end there wasn’t
much for the last of them except an impoverished estate, a shabby old
house, and an inherited conviction that the world was his oyster.

The story might begin there, or a little later when what James Lessiter
wanted most out of all the world was Rietta Cray. He told her so in the
orchard of Melling House under a May moon when she was nineteen and he
was twenty-two. She told Catherine, and Catherine condoled. ‘You know,
darling, there really isn’t any money at all, and Aunt Mildred will be
furious.’ On the strength of long association and distant kinship Mrs.
Lessiter was Aunt Mildred to both the girls. None of which would have
made either of them anything but a most unwelcome daughter-in-law, and
what little money there was remained quite firmly in Mildred Lessiter’s
hands. James couldn’t lay a finger on it. He went out into the world to
make his fortune with large expectations and a conquering air. At
twenty-three Catherine had married Edward Welby and was gone from
Melling, and Rietta was settling down to nurse an invalid mother and
bring up her sister’s boy, Carr Robertson, because Margaret and her
husband were in India. Margaret died there, and after a decent interval
Major Robertson married again. He sent money for Carr’s education, but
he did not come home, and by and by he practically ceased to write. He
died when Carr was fifteen.

Perhaps the story begins there with Carr’s grudge against a world which
would have got along very well without him. Or perhaps it begins with
Catherine Welby’s return as a childless widow. Mildred Lessiter was
still alive. Catherine went to see her, cried a good deal, and was
offered the Gate House at a nominal rent. ‘Really quite sweet, you know,
Rietta—those dear little crinkly roses all over it. And being in the
grounds of Melling House—well, it’s rather nice, don’t you think? And
Aunt Mildred says Alexander can keep up the garden for me whilst he’s
doing all the rest. It’s too, too sweet of her, and I shall be able to
live on practically nothing at all, which is just as well, because
that’s about as much as I shall have when everything is settled. It’s a
very great shock to me Edward’s affairs being in such a state, and you
know, when you’ve been accustomed to having everything it isn’t at all
easy to come down to thinking about every halfpenny—is it?’

Rietta gave her an odd fleeting smile.

‘I don’t know, Cathy, but then, you see, I’ve never had——’ She paused
deliberately, and then added, ‘everything.’

It was fifteen years after this that Miss Silver came down to visit her
old friend Mrs. Voycey.




                                  TWO


As the train came to a standstill in Lenton station, Miss Maud Silver
closed a capacious handbag upon her knitting and the purse from which
she had just extracted her railway ticket, and descending a rather
inconveniently high step, stood looking about her for a porter and for
Mrs. Voycey. The question of whether she would recognise her after a
lapse of years, which might very easily have obliterated any likeness to
the girl whom she remembered, was naturally in the forefront of her
mind. Cissy Christopher had become Cecilia Voycey, and the friends who
had started as schoolgirls were elderly women.

Miss Silver did not consider that she herself had changed very much.
Looking pensively that very morning at a photograph taken when she was
leaving school to enter upon her first engagement as a governess, she
reflected that even after all this time it was not at all a bad
likeness. There was now some grey in her hair, but a good deal of its
original mousy brown persisted, and probably would persist to the end.
She still did it in just the same way, with an Alexandra fringe very
firmly controlled under a net. Her neat features had not altered. Her
pale, smooth skin had become older without losing its pallor or its
smoothness. As for her clothes, they were not the same, but they were in
the same manner—the black coat in its fifth year of faithful service,
the little fur tie, older, thinner, paler than it had been ten years
ago, but still so cosy, so comfortable. Even in the summer she went
nowhere without it, much experience having warned her how extremely cold
and draughty a village can become overnight. Her hat almost perfectly
resembled the hat in the photograph, having a great many bows of ribbon
at the back and a bunch of forget-me-nots and pansies on the left-hand
side. This continuity of what she felt to be quiet good taste should
make the task of recognition easier for her friend. But Cissy
Christopher—well, candidly, almost anything might have happened to
Cissy Christopher. The picture of a large, raw-boned girl with a poking
head, a rattling tongue, and quite enormous feet came back from the
past.

Looking along the platform, Miss Silver shook her head and dismissed the
vision, for there, advancing to meet her, was a massive figure in thick
checked tweeds and a rather battered hat on the back of her head. Not
Cissy Christopher, who had been dead and gone for many a year, but quite
undoubtedly Cecilia Voycey, flushed, bustling, hearty, and full of the
kindest welcome.

Before she knew what was going to happen Miss Silver was being kissed.

‘Maud! I’d have known you anywhere! Well, of course we’re both a few
years older—we won’t say how many. Not that I mind. I always say being
elderly is the best part of one’s life. You’ve got over all the tiresome
things like being in love, and wondering what’s going to happen to
you—you’ve made your friends, and you’ve made your life, and you go
along very pleasantly. Hawkins—here!’ She reached out sideways and
grabbed a passing porter by the arm. ‘This lady has got some luggage.
Tell him what it is, Maud, and he’ll bring it out to the car.’

As they drove away from the station yard in the small car which appeared
to be a very tight fit for its owner, Mrs. Voycey was loud in her
pleasure at this eagerly-awaited reunion.

‘I’ve been counting the days—just like we used to when it was getting
on for the end of term. Funny we should have lost sight of each other
for all these years, but you know how it is—you swear eternal
friendship, and at first you write reams, and then you don’t write so
much, and then you don’t write at all. Everything’s new, and you meet a
lot of different people. And then, of course, I went out to India and
married, and I wasn’t very happy, though I dare say it was a good deal
my own fault, and if I had my time over again, which I wouldn’t for the
world, I’d probably manage much better. But anyhow it’s all over now.
Poor John died getting on for twenty years ago, and we’d been separated
for some time before that. I came in for some money from an uncle, so I
was able to leave him, and I’ve been living at Melling ever since. My
father was the parson there, you remember, so it’s always felt like
home. He only lived a year after I came back, but I built myself a house
and I’m very comfortable. Now, what about you? You started off as a
governess—what on earth made you take up detecting? You know, when I
met Alvina Grey—she’s a sort of distant cousin—and she told me all
about you and that frightful murder case—the woman with the eternity
earrings—well, first of all I thought it couldn’t be you, and then she
described you, and I thought perhaps it was, and then I wrote to you
and—here we are! But you haven’t told me what made you take it
up—detecting, I mean.’

Whatever else the long years had changed, Cecilia Voycey still had Cissy
Christopher’s rattling tongue. Miss Silver gave her slight prim cough.

‘It is rather difficult to say—a combination of circumstances—I
believe I was guided. My scholastic experience has been extremely
valuable.’

‘You must tell me all about everything,’ said Mrs. Voycey with
enthusiasm.

She had at this point to draw in very close to the side of the lane in
order to avoid two young people standing under the opposite hedge. Miss
Silver, observing them with interest, saw a girl in scarlet and a tall
young man in grey flannel slacks and a loose tweed jacket. The girl was
excessively pretty—really quite unnecessarily so. A singular figure for
a country lane on an autumn day, with her flaring clothes, her pale gold
hair, her careful complexion. The young man had a dark, tormented look.

Mrs. Voycey waved a hand out of the window, squeezed past them, and
explained.

‘Carr Robertson. He’s down here on a visit to his aunt Rietta Cray who
brought him up. The girl’s staying there too. He brought her—just like
that, you know, without a with your leave or by your leave—at least
that’s what Catherine Welby says, and she always seems to know all
Rietta’s affairs. Manners of the present day! I wonder what my father
would have said if one of my brothers had just walked in and said. “This
is Fancy Bell”.’

‘Fancy?’

‘That’s what he calls her—I believe her name is Frances. And I suppose
we shall hear that they are engaged—or married!’ She gave a hearty
laugh. ‘Or perhaps not—you never can tell, can you? You’d have thought
once bitten, twice shy. Carr’s been married already—another of these
flighty blonde girls. She ran off with someone, and died. It’s only
about two years ago, and you’d have thought it would have made him more
careful.’

‘She is very pretty,’ said Miss Silver mildly.

Mrs. Voycey snorted in the manner for which she had so often been
reproved at school.

‘Men haven’t a particle of sense,’ she declared.

They came out of the lane upon a typically rural scene—a village green
complete with pond and ducks; the church with its old graveyard; the
Vicarage; the village inn with its swinging sign depicting a wheatsheaf
whose original gold was now almost indistinguishable from a faded
background; the entrance pillars and lodge of a big house; a row of
cottages, their gardens still bright with sunflower, phlox, and
Michaelmas daisy.

‘I’m just on the other side of the Green,’ said Mrs. Voycey. She took a
hand off the wheel to point. ‘That’s the Vicarage next the church—much
too big for Mr. Ainger. He’s a bachelor, but his sister keeps house for
him. I don’t like her—I never did—though I don’t say she doesn’t make
herself useful in the village, because she does. He’d like to marry
Rietta Cray, but she won’t have him—I don’t know why, because he’s a
very charming person. Anyhow, that’s Rietta’s house, the little white
one with the hedge. Her father was our doctor—very much respected. And
the drive going up between those pillars takes you to Melling House. It
belongs to the Lessiters, but old Mrs. Lessiter died a few years ago,
and the son hasn’t been near the place for more than twenty years, not
even to his mother’s funeral, because it was in the war and I believe he
was out of England. He was engaged to Rietta, you know, but it didn’t
come off—no money, though he’s made a lot since—just one of those boy
and girl affairs. But neither of them has married anyone else, and now
we’re all quite terribly interested because he has just come back. After
all these years! Not of course that anything is likely to come of it,
but in a village you might as well be dead as not take an interest in
your neighbours.’

At this point Miss Silver was understood to say that people were always
interesting.

Mrs. Voycey slowed down to avoid a dog.

‘Shoosh, Rover—you can’t scratch in the middle of the road!’ She turned
back to Miss Silver. ‘Somebody’s bound to run over him some day, but I
hope it won’t be me.’ She pointed again. ‘Catherine Welby lives in the
lodge of Melling House—there, just inside the pillars. They call it the
Gate House, but it’s really just a rather better sort of lodge. She is
some sort of connection of the Lessiters—very convenient for her,
because she gets the house for practically nothing, and all the fruit
and vegetables she wants into the bargain. So I hope James Lessiter
won’t turn her out, for I’m sure I don’t know what she would do if he
did.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘Her means are narrow?’

Mrs. Voycey nodded with emphasis.

‘Practically non-existent, I should say, though you’d never think so to
look at her. I’ll ask her to tea, and you’ll see for yourself. She’s
still very pretty, though I always preferred Rietta’s looks myself.
They’re the same age, forty-three, but no one makes anything of that
nowadays. Creams, powders, washes, lipstick, and permanent
waving—really as long as you keep your figure there’s no need to look
any age at all. Catherine might be no more than thirty. Of course if you
put on weight like I have you’re out of it, and anyhow I don’t suppose I
could have been bothered—fiddle-faddles aren’t in my line. Ah,
now—here we are!’

As she spoke she turned in at the miniature drive of a miniature villa.
Beds of scarlet geranium and bright blue lobelia bloomed on either side
of the front door. They were hardly less brilliant than the red brick of
the walls. After twenty years’ exposure to the elements Staplehurst
Lodge looked as if it had just come from the builder’s hands, with its
emerald paint, its shining door-knocker, and its generally spick and
span appearance. It stood out from the village background like a patch
of pink flannelette on some old soft brocade. This, however, was not a
simile which would have occurred to Miss Silver, who had no affection
for domestic architecture of the early English type—‘So dark, so
inconvenient, and often so sadly insanitary.’ She considered Staplehurst
Lodge a very comfortable residence, and was both touched and pleased
when her old friend slipped a hand inside her arm, squeezed it
affectionately, and said,

‘Well, this is my little place, and I hope you’ll have a happy visit
here.’




                                 THREE


Catherine Welby came out of the Gate House, passed between the pillars
which marked the entrance to Melling House, and walked along the
footpath to the White Cottage. The grass verges on either side were
still green although it was late September. A single glance at them
showed what kind of summer it had been, but this afternoon it was fine,
and so warm that Catherine was even a little too warm in the pale grey
flannel coat and skirt which threw up the fairness of her skin and the
bright red gold of her hair. She was, as Mrs. Voycey said, a very pretty
woman, her figure still slender and her eyes as deep a blue as they had
been when she was eighteen. But over and above her prettiness she had
something which is far more uncommon. Whatever she wore appeared to be
just right both for herself and for the occasion. Her hair was always in
the same becoming waves, never too formal, never untidy.

She went in through a small white gate and up a flagged path, pushed
open Miss Cray’s front door, and called,

‘Rietta!’

In the sitting-room Rietta Cray gave a quick frown which brought out the
likeness to her nephew and called back,

‘I’m here. Come in!’

If there was one person she didn’t want to see at this moment it was
Catherine Welby. She did not as a matter of fact wish to see anyone at
all, but if you live in a village, it’s no good not wanting to see
people, because you have to. She was perfectly well aware that James
Lessiter’s return had set everyone remembering that they had once been
engaged, and wondering how they would feel and look, and what they would
say when they met. Twenty years is a long time, but not long enough to
let a village forget.

She did not get up when Catherine came in, but continued to bend forward
over the table at which she was cutting a child’s frock out of an odd
length of material. She had known Catherine for too many years to
disturb herself, and if she were to take the hint and think her too busy
to be disturbed, there would be no harm done. Her scissors snipped
through the end of the stuff before she looked up to see Catherine
lighting a cigarette.

‘You look very busy, Rietta. Garments for the poor?’

The quick frown appeared again. In some curious way it gave a young,
impulsive look to the dark, straight features. No one had ever called
Rietta pretty—her cast of looks was too severe for that. ‘Pallas
Athene, with a touch of the Gorgon’s head,’ as a friend of James
Lessiter’s had once said after being snubbed. But she had her moments of
beauty—fleeting, stormy moments for the most part. As to the rest, her
hair was dark, her eyes grey and finely lashed, her figure in the Greek
tradition, and her manner a little on the abrupt side. She looked up now
and said,

‘What is it?’

Catherine had made herself very comfortable on the window-seat.

‘Well, really, Rietta! You know, sewing isn’t your line—it always puts
you in a bad temper. You ought to be thankful to me for coming round and
interrupting you.’

‘Well, I’m not. I want to get this done.’

Catherine waved her cigarette.

‘I’m not stopping you, darling—you go on pinning the thing together. I
just thought I’d come round and ask you whether you’ve seen James yet.’

This time Rietta didn’t let herself frown. She had a moment of black
rage, because of course this was what everyone in Melling was wanting to
know. Then she said in the expressionless voice which goes with being
angry:

‘No. Why should I?’

‘I don’t know—you might have. As a matter of fact I haven’t either, but
of course he only came last night. I wonder what he’s like, and whether
he’s worn as well as we have. You know, Rietta, if you took the least
trouble, you could look—well, thirty-four.’

‘I don’t in the least want to look thirty-four.’

Catherine’s dark blue eyes opened widely.

‘What’s the good of saying a silly thing like that? What you need is
colour—you always did—and a softer expression. You ought to practise
in front of the glass.’

Rietta’s lips twitched. Her anger was gone. She could enjoy Catherine. A
picture of herself practising soft expressions at a looking-glass
assuaged her a good deal.

‘We might practise them together,’ she said.

Catherine blew out a light cloud of smoke.

‘Now you’re laughing at me. I thought you were going to bite my head off
when I came in. I do wonder if James has got fat. Such a pity if he
has—he was so very nice looking. You did make a most awfully handsome
couple—only of course he ought to have fallen in love with somebody
fair like me. You know, it was very nice of me not to try and take him
away from you.’

Rietta Cray lifted those fine grey eyes of hers and allowed them to
dwell for a moment upon Catherine. Since it was perfectly well known
between them that Catherine had tried and failed, there appeared to be
no need to say anything more about it. Rietta therefore said nothing.
After a moment she went on pinning the small pink frock.

Catherine laughed amiably and returned to James Lessiter.

‘I don’t know whether it’s worse to get stout or scraggy. James must be
forty-five.’ She drew at her cigarette and added, ‘He’s coming in to
have coffee with me tonight. You’d better come, too.’

‘No, thank you.’

‘You’d better. You’ll have to meet him some time. Get it over in a
sensible friendly way when you can be looking your best, instead of
bumping into him anywhere by chance when your hair is coming down in the
rain, or half the village is lined up watching to see how you take it.’

For a brief moment a bright touch of scarlet gave Rietta Cray the colour
she lacked. A dangerous anger had set it glowing. It was instantly
controlled. She said,

‘We’re not schoolgirls. There is nothing to take. If James is going to
be here, naturally we shall meet. But I shall be very much surprised if
he stays for long. He will find Melling very dull.’

‘He has made a lot of money,’ said Catherine in a pensive voice. ‘Look
here, Rietta, do come off your high horse! It’s going to make a lot of
difference to have Melling open again and, after all, you and I are
James’ oldest friends. It can’t be very cheerful for him coming back to
an empty house. I do think we must give him a bit of a welcome. Come
along in to coffee this evening!’

Rietta gave her a straight look. It would have been so much more natural
for Catherine to want to have—and keep—James Lessiter to herself. She
was up to something, and presently, no doubt, the cat would slip out of
the bag. Or most likely not a cat at all, but one of Catherine’s sleek,
silky kittens, with innocent eyes and whiskers dripping with cream. Only
you don’t get cream in bags, or anywhere else, in this post-war world.
She said nothing, only looked and allowed herself to smile just enough
to let Catherine see that she hadn’t got away with it.

Did a little natural colour deepen the very careful tinting behind the
thin haze of cigarette smoke? Catherine Welby got up gracefully and
without haste.

‘Well, come if you can,’ she said. Then, turning before she reached the
door, ‘Carr out?’

‘He and Fancy have gone into Lenton.’

Catherine Welby laughed.

‘Is he going to marry her?’

‘I shouldn’t advise you to ask him. I haven’t.’

‘He’ll be damned silly if he does. She’s too like Marjory. It’ll be the
same story all over again.’

‘You haven’t any right to say that.’

Catherine blew her a kiss.

‘Waste of time trying to high-hat me—you ought to know that after all
these years. I’m just using my common sense, and you’d better use yours
and choke him off if you don’t want another crash—I should think it
would just about finish him. Did he ever find out who Marjory went off
with?’

‘No.’

‘Well, she saved everyone a lot of trouble by not surviving. I mean,
after she’d come back down and out and he’d taken her in and nursed her,
he couldn’t very well have got a divorce, could he? Solitary instance of
tact on her part, but rather wasted if he’s going to do the same thing
all over again. Well, I’ll be seeing you.’




                                  FOUR


Fancy Bell looked sideways under her long lashes and observed her
companion’s gloom. With a faint sigh she turned to the much more
agreeable spectacle of her own enchanting face and figure reflected in
the looking-glass at the back of a milliner’s window. A bit daring that
scarlet—hit or miss, as you might say—but to judge from the way in
which practically every man they passed had looked and looked again, it
was a hit all right. A lovely contrast they made, her and Carr. Very
good looking he was—nobody could say anything different. And of course
nothing like that dark, gloomy type for making a fair girl look even
fairer than she was. And he was ever so nice really, only it would make
things a lot easier if he would smile a bit and look as if he was
enjoying her company. But of course you couldn’t have everything.

There was a hard core of common sense behind that very decorative
facade. You couldn’t have everything, so you had to make up your mind
just what you wanted most. Young men with plenty of money asked you to
go away for week-ends. Well, she wasn’t that sort of girl and she let
them know it—no offence meant and none taken, but they didn’t generally
try it on a second time. The show-girl business was all very well while
it lasted, but it didn’t last for ever. The sensible person who was
Frances expected Fancy to get her a chance of settling in life, and she
knew just what she wanted—a lift in the world, but not such a big one
that your in-laws were going to look down on you—enough money to have a
nice little home and, say, three children—and someone to do all the
rough work, because you don’t want to let yourself go, and she’d always
kept her hands nice. Of course she’d have to do a good bit, especially
after the babies came. She wouldn’t mind that. Frances had it all
planned out. She was considering whether Carr Robertson would do for the
lead in this private play of hers. He had a job and he had a little
money of his own, and Fancy would find it quite easy to be in love with
him, but Frances wasn’t going to let her do anything silly.

She put up a hand and pulled at his sleeve.

‘Here’s the place Mrs. Welby said, where she has her hair done. I’ll be
an hour, if you can put in the time. Sure you can?’

He said, ‘Oh, yes,’ in an indifferent tone.

‘All right. And then we’ll have tea. So long.’

He watched her go with a curious feeling of relief. There was going to
be a whole hour in which nothing would be expected of him. He needn’t
talk, make love, or abstain from making love. His feeling was very much
like that with which one sometimes sees one’s guests depart. Their
presence may have been welcome, their company enjoyed, but there is
something about having your house to yourself again. Only when he did
have it to himself there was always the possibility that the welcome
solitude would be invaded by an unlaid ghost—Marjory’s step on the
stair ... her laughter and her tears ... her failing voice:
‘No—no—I’ll never tell you his name. I don’t want you to kill him. No,
Carr—no!’

A real voice broke in upon his mood. He glanced up with the quick
nervous frown so like Rietta’s and saw Mr. Holderness looking
benevolent. One of his earliest recollections was the benevolence of Mr.
Holderness accompanied by a half-crown tip. As far as Carr could see, he
hadn’t changed a bit—dignified presence, florid complexion, kindly
gaze, and rich rolling voice—general slight flavour of the eighteenth
century from which his office with its Georgian panelling had never
emerged. The firm had ranked as old-fashioned county solicitors then,
and the tradition had been maintained ever since. He clapped Carr on the
shoulder and enquired whether he was down for long.

‘Rietta will be glad to have you. How is she? Not working too hard, I
hope. Last time I saw her I thought she was looking as if she had been
overdoing it, and she told me she couldn’t get any help in the garden.’

‘No, she’s had to give up the vegetables. She hasn’t much help in the
house either—only Mrs. Fallow for a couple of hours twice a week. I
think she does do too much.’

‘Take care of her, my boy, take care of her. Good people are scarce, and
she won’t look after herself—women never will. Between ourselves,
they’ve every virtue except common sense. But don’t say I said so. No
witnesses, you know—and I shall deny it—I shall deny it!’ He let out a
fine reverberant laugh. ‘Well, well, I mustn’t stay gossiping. I’ve been
in court all day, and I must get on to the office. By the way, I hear
James Lessiter is back. Have you seen him at all?’

Carr’s lips twitched into a smile as quick and nervous as his frown.

‘I’ve never seen him in my life. He was off the map before I fetched up
in Melling.’

‘Yes, yes—of course—so he was. And now he’s come back a rich man.
Pleasant to come across a success story once in a way—very pleasant
indeed. You haven’t seen him since he got back?’

‘I don’t think anyone has. As a matter of fact I believe he only arrived
last night. Mrs. Fallow has been up there helping the Mayhews.’

‘Ah, yes—Mrs. Lessiter’s cook and butler—very worthy people. Mayhew
calls in at the office every week for their wages. That is how I knew
that James was expected. He’ll be ringing me up, I expect. It’s made a
lot of work, his being out of the country when his mother died. Well,
goodbye, my boy. I’m glad to have seen you.’

He passed on. Carr watched him go, and felt his mood changed by the
encounter. There had been a time before the world was shattered. Old
Holderness belonged to that time, he might even be said to typify it.
Life was secure, its circumstances stable. You had the friends you had
grown up with, the friends you made at school and college. Term followed
term throughout the year, with bright intervals of vacation. Half-crown
tips mounted to ten shillings, to a pound. Henry Ainger had given him a
fiver on his eighteenth birthday. Elizabeth Moore had given him an old
picture of a ship. He had felt romantic about it from the first moment
he saw it hanging in a dark corner of her uncle’s antique shop. Odd how
a little paint and canvas can become a magic casement. He had seen
himself sailing out into life on an enchanted tide——

On a sudden impulse he walked down the street, turned to the left, and
stood looking in at Jonathan Moore’s shop window. There was a fine set
of red and white ivory chessmen in Manchu and Chinese dress—war
formalized into a game. He watched the pieces, admiring the exquisite
precision of the carving, angry underneath. Then all at once he
straightened up, pushed open the door, and went in. A bell tinkled,
Elizabeth came to meet him. The anger dropped out of him and was gone.

She said, ‘Carr!’ and they stood looking at one another.

It was only for a moment that he was able to look at her as if she were
a stranger, because though it was nearly five years since they had met,
he had known her all his life. But for just that one moment he did see
her as if it was the first time—the tall light figure, the clear
windblown look she had, brown hair ruffled back from the forehead,
bright eager eyes, and a quick tremulous smile. He got the impression of
something startled into joy, ready to take flight, to escape, to become
unobtainable—the whole thing much too fleeting to pass into conscious
thought. She spoke first, in the voice which he had always liked—a
pretty, clear voice full of gravity and sweetness.

‘Carr—how nice! It’s been such a long time, hasn’t it?’

He said, ‘A million years,’ and then wondered why he had said it. Only
it didn’t matter what you said to Elizabeth—it never had.

She put out a hand, but not to touch him. It was an old remembered
gesture.

‘As long as that? My poor dear! Come along through and let’s talk. Uncle
Jonathan is out at a sale.’

He followed her into the little sitting-room behind the shop—shabby
comfortable chairs, old-fashioned plush curtains, Jonathan Moore’s
untidy desk. Elizabeth shut the door. They might have been back in the
past before the deluge. She opened a cupboard, rummaged, and produced a
bag of caramels.

‘Do you still like them? I think you do. If you really like something
you go on liking it, don’t you think?’

‘I don’t know about that.’

‘I do—I’m quite sure.’ She laughed a little. ‘Whatever happens or
doesn’t happen, I shall always have a passion for caramels. I’ve never
stopped being thankful that I can eat them without putting on an ounce.
Look here, there’s the bag between us, and we can both dip in like we
used to.’

He laughed too, all the tension in him relaxed. To come back to
Elizabeth was to slip into a place so accustomed, so comfortable, that
you didn’t even have to think about it. An old coat, old shoes, an old
friend—unromantic, undemanding, utterly restful.

She said, ‘Is it too early for tea? I’ll make some——’ and saw him
frown again.

‘No. I’ve got Fancy with me—Frances Bell. We’re staying with Rietta.
She’s gone in to Hardy’s to have her hair done, and she will want tea
when she comes out.’

Elizabeth’s very clear eyes dwelt on him consideringly.

‘You wouldn’t like to bring her in here? I’ve got quite a new cake.’

He said, ‘Yes, I would.’

Elizabeth nodded.

‘That’s lovely. Then we can just sit and talk. Tell me about her. Is she
a friend of yours?’

‘No.’

He didn’t know he was going to say it, but it was no sooner said than he
thought, ‘My God—that’s true!’ What sort of a mess had he got himself
into, and how far in had he got? It was like walking in your sleep and
waking up to find yourself with one foot over a killing drop.

‘Tell me about her, Carr. What is she like?’

The tormented look was back again. He turned it on her.

‘She’s like Marjory.’

‘I only saw her once. She was very pretty.’ It was said without rancour,
yet they both remembered that one meeting, because it was after it that
Elizabeth had said, ‘Are you in love with her, Carr?’ They were here
alone together in this very room, and when he looked away and couldn’t
meet her eyes she had taken off her engagement ring and laid it down on
the arm of the chair between them, and when he still had nothing to say
she had gone out through the far door and up the old stair to her own
room overhead. And he had let her go.

Five years ago, but it came back like yesterday. He said,

‘Why did you let me go?’

‘How could I keep you?’

‘You didn’t try.’

‘No—I didn’t try. I didn’t want to keep you if you wanted to go.’

He was silent, because he couldn’t say, ‘I didn’t want to go.’ He had
known Elizabeth all his life, and Marjory for three short weeks. At
twenty-three it is the new, the unexpected, the unknown, which evokes
romance. If the enchanted distance turns upon nearer view into a desert,
you have only yourself to thank. Marjory hadn’t changed—he had always
had to remind himself of that.

He found himself leaning forward, his hands between his knees, words
coming at first jerkily and then with a rush.

‘It wasn’t her fault, you know. I was damnable to live with—and the
baby died—she hadn’t got anything. Money was tight. She’d been used to
having a good time—lots of people to go about with. I couldn’t give her
anything to make up for it. The flat was so cramped—she hated it. I was
always away, and there wasn’t any money, and when I was there I was in a
filthy temper. You can’t blame her.’

‘What happened, Carr?’

‘I was sent to Germany. I didn’t get demobbed till the end of that year.
She never wrote much, and then she didn’t write at all. I got leave, and
came home to find strangers in the flat. She’d let it. No one knew where
she was. When I got home for good I tried to trace her. I took on the
flat again, because I had to live somewhere and I’d got this job in a
literary agency. A friend of mine started it—Jack Smithers. You
remember, he was up at Oxford with me. He was crocked in the war, and
got away with this business before the ugly rush.’

Elizabeth said, ‘Yes?’

He looked up at her for a moment.

‘I had a sort of idea perhaps she would come back. Well, she did. It was
a bitter cold January night. I got in just short of midnight, and there
she was, huddled up on the divan. She must have been pretty well frozen,
because she hadn’t any coat, only a thin suit. She’d got the eiderdown
from the bedroom and put the electric fire on, and by the time I got in
she was in a burning fever. I got a doctor, but she never had a chance.
The swine she’d gone off with had left her penniless in France. She’d
sold everything she had to get home. She told me that, but she wouldn’t
tell me his name. She said she didn’t want me to kill him. After all
he’d done to her—she talked when she was delirious, so I know—after
all that she was mad about him still!’

Elizabeth’s voice came into the silence.

‘She might have been thinking about you.’

He laughed angrily.

‘Then she wasn’t! She kept his photograph—that’s how I know, and that’s
how I’ll find him some day. It was in the back of her compact under the
bit of gauze that’s supposed to keep the powder in. I expect she thought
nobody would find it there, but of course she didn’t know she was going
to die.’ His voice went harsh. ‘She wouldn’t have believed it if anyone
had told her.’

Elizabeth said, ‘Poor Marjory!’

He nodded.

‘I’ve kept that photograph—I’ll find him some time. It was just the
head and shoulders cut out and the cardboard scraped down at the back to
make it fit, so there’s no photographer’s name, but I’ll know him if I
meet him.’

‘People don’t go unpunished, Carr. Don’t try and play hangman. It’s not
your line.’

‘Isn’t it? I don’t know——’

There was a silence. Elizabeth let it gather round them. She was leaning
back now, watching him between her dark lashes, her long thin hands
resting quietly on the green stuff of her skirt. The cream sweater she
wore with it came up high about her long throat. There was a small pearl
in the lobe of either ear.

Presently Carr began to speak again.

‘Fancy’s rather like her, you know. She’s been a mannequin. At the
moment she’s a show-girl—out of a job. She’s worked very hard and she
wants to get on. She hopes for a part in what she calls a regular play.
I shouldn’t think there’s a chance in a million that she can act. She
has to be rather careful about her vowels, because they pronounce them
differently in Stepney where she grew up. I believe Mum and Dad still
live there, and she wouldn’t dream of cutting loose, because she’s a
nice girl and very fond of her family.’

‘And just where do you come in?’ said Elizabeth.

He looked up with a flash of rather bitter humour.

‘She wants to get on, and she’s considering me as a stepping-stone.’

‘Are you engaged?’

‘I believe not.’

‘Have you asked her to marry you?’

‘I don’t know.’

‘Carr, you must know!’

‘Well, I don’t, and that’s a fact.’

She sat up suddenly, her eyes wide open, her hands clasped.

‘You’ve been letting yourself drift and you don’t know where you’ve got
to.’

‘That’s about the size of it.’

‘Carr, it’s suicidal! You don’t have to marry a girl you don’t care
about.’

He said, ‘No.’ And then, ‘It’s quite easy to drift that way when you
don’t really care what happens. One gets lonely.’

Elizabeth said very quick and low, ‘It’s better to be lonely by yourself
than to be lonely with somebody else.’

The pain in his eyes shocked her.

‘Damnably true. I’ve tried it both ways, so I ought to know. But you
see, that once-bitten-twice-shy business doesn’t work—you always think
it’s going to be different next time.’

Elizabeth said with energy, ‘Carr, I could shake you! You’re talking
nonsense and you know it. You did go honestly off the deep end about
Marjory, but this time you don’t even pretend you care a snap of your
fingers about this wretched girl.’

His old provoking smile flashed out.

‘Darling, she isn’t a wretched girl. On the contrary, she’s a very nice
girl, a perfectly good girl, and a devastatingly pretty one—platinum
hair, sapphire eyes, lashes about half a yard long, and the traditional
rose-leaf complexion. Wait till you see her!’




                                  FIVE


The tea-party went off as well as could be expected. Fancy had kicked a
little.

‘But who is this Elizabeth Moore? I’m sure I’ve never heard you speak
about her. Does she keep a shop?’

‘Her uncle does. He’s rather well known as a matter of fact. The Moores
used to have a big country house out beyond Melling. Three of them were
killed in the first world war, and the three lots of death duties
smashed them. Jonathan was the fourth. When it came to everything being
sold up he said he’d have a shop and sell the things himself—that’s how
he started. Elizabeth’s father and mother are dead, so she lives with
him.’

‘How old is she?’

‘She’s three years younger than I am.’

‘But I don’t know how old you are.’

‘I’m twenty-eight.’

‘Then—she’s twenty-five?’

He burst out laughing.

‘Bright girl! How do you do it? Come along—she’s got the kettle on.’

Mollified by the discovery that Elizabeth was well advanced towards
middle age, Fancy followed him. She was ready for a cup of tea all
right. Having your head in one of those drying machines made you ever so
thirsty. She was still further reassured at the sight of Elizabeth and
the friendly shabby room. Miss Moore might be an old friend and all
that, but no one could call her a beauty, and she wasn’t a bit smart.
That skirt she had on—well, it wasn’t this year’s cut, nor last year’s
neither. And the jumper, right high up to the neck and down to the
wrists—not a bit smart. Yet almost at once she began to have a feeling
that her own scarlet suit was a bit too daring. The feeling went on
getting stronger until she could have burst into tears. She couldn’t say
Miss Moore wasn’t pleasant, or that she and Carr did anything to make
her feel like a stranger, but there it was, that’s what she felt like.
They weren’t her sort. That was nonsense—she was as good as anyone, and
much prettier and smarter than Elizabeth Moore. Silly to feel the way
she did. Mum would say not to go fancying things. And then all of a
sudden the feeling went and she was talking to Elizabeth about Mum and
Dad, and how she’d got her first job—all that sort of thing, quite nice
and comfortable.

When Elizabeth took her upstairs before she left, Fancy stood in front
of the fine Queen Anne mirror and said,

‘This is an old house, isn’t it?’

She could see Elizabeth reflected in the mirror—too tall, too thin, but
something elegant about her, something that fitted in with the house and
the furniture.

Elizabeth said, ‘Yes, it’s very old—seventeenth century. The bathroom
used to be a powder-cabinet. All horribly inconvenient, of course, but
quite good for business.’

Fancy took out her powder-puff and began to touch up a flawless
complexion.

‘I like new things,’ she said. ‘I don’t know why people bother about old
ones. I’d like to have a silver bed, and a suite of that grey furniture,
and everything else blue.’

Elizabeth smiled.

‘It would be just right for you, wouldn’t it?’

Fancy pursed up her mouth and applied lipstick with an expert touch. She
said, ‘M—’ Then, without turning round,

‘You’ve known Carr a long time, haven’t you?’

‘Oh, yes.’

‘Do you think he’d be difficult to live with? I mean, he gets these
moods, doesn’t he? Did he always use to get them?’

She could see in the glass that Elizabeth had moved. She couldn’t see
her face any longer. Her voice came a little slower.

‘I haven’t seen him for a long time. He’s been away, you know.’

‘Did you know the girl he married?’

‘I saw her once. She was very pretty.’

‘I’m like her, aren’t I? I didn’t exactly know her, but—’

‘You are a little like her.’

‘Same type?’

‘Yes.’

Fancy put away her powder-puff and lipstick, pulled at the zipper of her
scarlet bag. She said in an odd tone,

‘I suppose that’s why—’ She turned abruptly. ‘A girl wouldn’t want to
be just a stand-in for somebody else—would she?’

‘No.’

‘I mean, I wouldn’t want to be jealous about her, or anything like that.
I knew a girl that married a widower, and she wouldn’t set foot in the
house till he’d cleared out all the pictures of his first wife, and I
didn’t think that was right, not with her children there. I told Mum
about it, and she said, “A man that would forget his first wife would
forget you—don’t you make any mistake about that.” That’s what Mum
said, and I wouldn’t be like that, but I wouldn’t want to marry a man if
I was going to _be_ the photograph, if you see what I mean.’

‘I see exactly what you mean.’

Fancy heaved a sigh.

‘He’s ever so good-looking, isn’t he? But when it comes to living with
someone—well, it might be a case of handsome is as handsome does. I
mean, you’ve got to think before you go into anything, don’t you?’ She
gave a little quick laugh. ‘I don’t know what you’ll think of me,
talking like this. You’re sort of easy to talk to, I don’t know why.
Well, I suppose we’d better be going.’

On the way home she said,

‘She isn’t a bit like I thought she was going to be. She’s sort of
nice.’

Carr’s mouth twisted.

‘Yes—she’s sort of nice.’

He said it as if he was laughing at her, but there wasn’t anything to
laugh at. Carr was funny that way. You did your best to brighten him up
and make a joke or two, and you might as well have done it to a brick
wall. And then all of a sudden he’d laugh when there wasn’t anything to
laugh at. However, so long as he did laugh——

She pursued the theme of Elizabeth Moore.

‘Pity she hasn’t got married, isn’t it? I’d hate not to be married by
the time I was twenty-five.’

He laughed outright this time—and what was there funny about that?

‘Well, my sweet, you’ve got quite a long way to go, haven’t you? What is
it—another five years?’

‘Six. And I don’t know what there is to laugh about! A girl oughtn’t to
leave it too late—Mum says so. She says you get set in your ways, and
it’s no good when you’re married, because the man’ll want things his
way. I don’t mean to say she’d think he ought to be given in to all
along the line, but where there are two, it stands to reason there’s got
to be a bit of give and take, and when the children come along—well,
there’s a good deal more giving than taking, if you know what I mean.
That’s what Mum says, and she brought up six of us, so she ought to
know.’

Carr had stopped laughing. He had never felt less in love with Fancy,
and he had never liked her half so well. He said,

‘Your mother’s a very sensible woman—I’d like to meet her. And I
shouldn’t wonder if you didn’t make someone quite a good wife some day,
my sweet.’

‘But not you?’

She didn’t know what took the words off the tip of her tongue, but there
they were—she’d said them right out. And he was looking at her with a
funny little smile in his eyes and saying,

‘No, I don’t think so.’

Her lovely rose tints deepened. The big blue eyes looked honestly back
at him.

‘I know what you mean. We both thought perhaps it would do, but it
won’t. I knew that as soon as I saw you with that Elizabeth girl. You’ve
been fond of her—haven’t you?’

His look went bleak.

‘A long time ago.’

‘I’d say you’d been very fond of her—I’d say you were pretty fond of
her still. You seem to sort of fit in together, if you know what I mean.
Were you engaged?’

He used the same words again.

‘A long time ago.’

They walked on in silence. Fancy thought, ‘We can’t go the best part of
two and a half miles and never talk. I should scream, and he’d think I’d
gone batty. It’s so quiet in these country lanes—you can pretty well
hear yourself think.’ She spoke to break the silence.

‘She’s fond of you, too—I could tell that.’

He was frowning, but he wasn’t angry, because he put his hand on her
shoulder and patted it.

‘You can always start a marriage agency, if you don’t get off yourself.
And now we’ll stop talking about me, and you can tell me all about Mum
and the other five of you.’




                                  SIX


Catherine Welby looked round at her sitting-room and thought how pretty
it was. Some of the things were shabby, but they were all good, because
they had come from Melling House. The little Queen Anne writing-table
would fetch a couple of hundred pounds any time she liked to ask for it.
Like the Persian rugs it had been a present from Mrs. Lessiter—or so
nearly a present that no one was likely to dispute it. Mrs. Mayhew would
remember hearing Mrs. Lessiter say, ‘I’m letting Mrs. Welby have those
rugs and the little desk out of the Blue Room.’ She had added, ‘They
might as well be used.’ But there would be no need for Mrs. Mayhew to
remember that, nor would she do so unless encouraged, and it wasn’t
Catherine Welby who would encourage her. Nearly all the furniture in the
Gate House had come to her on the same slightly debatable tenure. She
meant to make no bones about it with James Lessiter. It was, in fact,
one of the reasons why she was now expecting him to coffee. The contents
of the Gate House were to be exhibited to him in the guise of his
mother’s gifts.

She looked round her with gratitude and appreciation. Aunt Mildred had
certainly meant her to have the things. Why, the curtains had been cut
down from an old put-away pair dating from goodness knows when—faded,
but what a heavenly brocade, with its dim rose background and formal
wreaths just touched with blue and green. There had been enough of it to
cover chairs and sofa, and the cushions repeated the colouring of the
wreaths.

Catherine dressed to the room. A gilt-edged mirror over the high
mantelshelf reflected her dull blue house-gown, her pretty hair, the
turn of her head. All at once she heard the step she was waiting for.
She went out into the narrow space at the stair foot and threw open the
front door.

‘James—come in! How nice! Do let me look at you! We mustn’t say how
many years it is, must we?’

He was bare-headed, in a dark suit without coat or scarf. As she went
before him into the lighted room, he laughed and said,

‘It mightn’t be any years at all so far as you are concerned. You
haven’t changed.’

She had a radiant smile for that.

‘Haven’t I?’

‘You’re prettier, but I expect you know that without my telling you.
What about me—do I get anything?’

She looked at him with genuine amazement. He had been a good-looking
boy. At forty-six he was a much handsomer man than anyone could have
expected. The photograph Aunt Mildred had been so proud of really hadn’t
lied. She went on smiling and said,

‘I expect you’ll do very well without any more conceit than you’ve got.’
Then, with a ripple of laughter, ‘Oh, James, it is nice to see you! Just
wait one moment and I’ll fetch the coffee. I only have a morning girl,
you know.’

He looked about while she was out of the room. Very familiar stuff, all
this furniture—some of it good. He supposed his mother had put it in
for her. He’d have to see Holderness and find out where he stood from
the legal point of view. If he was going to sell the place, the Gate
House would go with it, and he would have to give vacant possession. But
if Catherine had it unfurnished and paid rent for it, it might not be
possible to turn her out. The bother was, there was probably no set
agreement, and nothing to show whether the presence of the Melling House
furniture constituted a furnished let. If it did, he could give
Catherine notice, but if his mother had given her the furniture, he
probably couldn’t. Pretty woman Catherine—prettier than she had been
twenty-five years ago—a little too plump in those days. He wondered
about Rietta. Just on the cards she might have put on weight—those
statuesque girls did sometimes. She must be forty-three.

Catherine came back into the room with the coffee-tray and the name on
her lips.

‘Have you seen Rietta?’

‘No—not yet.’

She put the tray down on a little table with a pie-crust edge. A
valuable piece—he remembered it. He thought Catherine had done herself
pretty well, and a little more than that.

‘It would be fun if we could get her to come over, wouldn’t it? I think
I’ll try. There’s one thing, she won’t be out.’

‘Why?’

Catherine laughed.

‘My dear James, you must have forgotten what Melling is like. It hasn’t
changed.’

She was lifting the receiver as she spoke. He came across and stood by
her side, heard the click as the receiver was taken off, heard Rietta’s
voice—like Melling, quite unchanged.

‘Yes?’

‘It’s Catherine. Listen, Rietta—James is here ... Yes, right beside me.
And we both want you to come over—and if you’re going to make Carr and
that girl of his an excuse, I shall know exactly what to think, and so
will James.’

Rietta again, quietly,

‘I shall be very pleased to see James again. Don’t keep any coffee for
me—I’ve had mine.’

Catherine rang off and turned a laughing face.

‘I thought that would fetch her! She wouldn’t want you to think she
minded meeting you.’

‘Why should she?’

‘No reason in the world. It’s funny neither of you have married, isn’t
it?’

He said rather abruptly, ‘I’ve had neither the time nor the inclination.
One travels much faster alone.’

‘You’ve travelled fast?’

‘Tolerably.’

‘Got where you wanted?’

‘More or less. There are always new horizons.’

She gave him his coffee with a sigh.

‘You must have had wonderful times. Do tell me about them.’

Rietta Cray came into the little square space at the foot of the stair
and laid her coat across the newel. She was angry because Catherine had
trapped her into coming. She had said ‘No,’ and she had meant ‘No,’ but
to say it again with James Lessiter listening was just one of the things
she couldn’t do. It must be as plain to him as to everyone in Melling
that she met him with friendly indifference. She glanced at her
reflection in the old wall mirror. Anger had brought the colour to her
cheeks quick and bright. She had come over just as she was in the old
red dress she wore at home. The shade was becoming, the long classic
folds suited her. She opened the sitting-room door to hear Catherine
say,

‘How marvellous!’

James Lessiter got up and came to meet her. He said,

‘Well, Rietta?’

Their hands touched. She felt nothing. The anger went out of her, the
tightness relaxed. Because this wasn’t a ghost come back out of the past
to trouble her—it was a stranger—a handsome, personable, middle-aged
stranger.

He and Catherine had been sitting one on either side of the hearth. She
took the chair between them and sat down, an alien figure in Catherine’s
pastel room. All at once it had a crowded look—too many small things
lying about, too many pale, delicate colours. She said,

‘I’ve only just come over to say how do you do. I mustn’t stop. I have
Carr and a friend of his staying with me.’

‘Carr?’ He picked up the name as any stranger might.

‘Margaret’s boy. You remember she married Jock Robertson. They left Carr
with me when they went out east, and they never came back, so I brought
him up.’

‘Carr Robertson—.’ It was said as you might say any name. ‘I’m sorry to
hear about Margaret. How old is the boy?’

‘Beyond being called one. He’s twenty-eight.’

‘Married?’

‘He was. She died two years ago.’

‘Bad luck. I seem to be asking all the wrong questions.’

She said, ‘These things happen.’

Catherine leaned sideways to put down her coffee-cup.

‘You needn’t mind, James. None of us really knew Marjory—she wasn’t
interested in Melling. I don’t suppose Rietta saw her a dozen times. And
as for Carr, I think we may say he is in process of being consoled. The
friend whom he has brought to stay is a particularly dazzling blonde.’

Rietta said, ‘That’s cheap, Catherine.’

Her old downright voice, her old downright anger. Pallas Athene
disdaining a mortal. A handsome creature, Rietta, probably not too
comfortable to live with. He began to ask about people in the village.

Some twenty minutes later when she got up to go he said,

‘I’ll walk round with you.’

‘There’s no need, James.’

‘Pleasant things are not always necessary. I’ll come back if you’ll let
me, Catherine, so I won’t say goodnight.’

It was dark outside—no moon, but no cloud, the stars a little veiled by
what might be a mist before the September sun came up again, the air
mild and moist, with a faint smell of wood-smoke and rotting leaves.

They had gone about a third of the short distance before he said,

‘I really wanted to speak to you, Rietta. I don’t quite know what
arrangements my mother made with Catherine about the Gate House. I
wonder if you can help me.’

She slowed her step to his.

‘I don’t know that I can. Why don’t you ask her?’

He sounded amused.

‘Do you really think that would be the best way to find out? I was
thinking of something a little more impartial.’

‘Then you had better ask Mr. Holderness.’

‘I’m going to. But I’ve an idea that he mayn’t know very much about it.
You know what my mother was—she had her own ways of doing things—very
much the autocrat, very much the _grande dame_.’ He gave a short laugh.
‘It might never have occurred to her to mention a private transaction
between herself and Catherine. What I should like to know is whether she
ever mentioned it to you. Here, let’s turn and walk back again. Did
she?’

‘Yes, when Catherine came back here after her husband died she said,
“Aunt Mildred’s letting me have the Gate House at a nominal rent.” And
next time I saw your mother she told me, “I’m letting Catherine have the
Gate House. Edward Welby seems to have left her with about
twopence-halfpenny a year.” ’

‘Nothing about rent?’

‘No.’

‘Anything about furniture?’

‘Yes, your mother said, “I’ve told her she can have the two groundfloor
rooms knocked into one, and I suppose I shall have to let her have some
furniture.” ’

‘That might mean anything. What I want to know is, was the furniture
given or lent?’

‘I don’t know.’

‘Some of it’s valuable.’

‘I suppose it is. The Mayhews might know.’

‘They don’t. There seems to have been a sort of drift going on for
years. Every now and then my mother would say, “I’m letting Mrs. Welby
have this, or that, or the other,” or Catherine would say, “Mrs.
Lessiter says I can have so-and-so,” and off it would go down to the
Lodge—absolutely nothing to show whether the thing was being given or
lent. And mind you, I don’t believe my mother would have given her some
of the things she’s got down there.’

‘She might have. I suppose the only person who can say whether she did
or not is Catherine herself.’

He laughed.

‘My dear Rietta!’

There was so much sarcasm in both voice and laugh that it really was not
necessary to add anything to those three words.

They reached the Lodge gate and turned again. Back out of the past came
the memory of the many, many times they had walked like this—under the
moon, under the stars, under the shadowing dusk, too much in love to be
able to say goodnight and go in. The love was gone with their youth and
those faraway hours. What was left as far as Rietta Cray was concerned
was an odd haunting sense of familiarity. In Catherine’s room James
Lessiter had seemed like a stranger. Here in the darkness she
recaptured, not the old love, not any emotional feeling, but the old
sense of a familiar presence. It prompted her into hurried speech.

‘James, couldn’t you—just let it go?’

He laughed again.

‘Let her get away with it?’

‘Why not? You’ve done without the things all this time. You’ve made a
lot of money, haven’t you? And no one can really be sure what your
mother meant. Catherine will be—dreadfully upset—if there’s a row.’

‘I daresay.’ He sounded amused. ‘But you see, it isn’t so easy as you
seem to think. I’ve had a very good offer for Melling House, and I’ll
have to give vacant possession. That goes for the Gate House too. If it
was let to Catherine as a furnished house, that’s all right—I can give
her notice and she’ll have to go. But an unfurnished let would be quite
a different pair of shoes. Well, here we are at your gate again. I’ll
have to go back and see what I can get out of Catherine, but unless
she’s changed a great deal more than I think she has, it’s not likely to
be anywhere within a street or two of the truth.’

‘James!’

He gave another laugh.

‘You haven’t changed much either. You’re still a good friend, and I’m
still a bad enemy. You don’t owe Catherine much, you know. She did her
level best to queer your pitch.’

‘That’s all past and gone.’

‘And you don’t want me to be hard on her now. Well, well! It doesn’t pay
to be made your way, Rietta, but I quite see you can’t help it. You
don’t try, do you, any more than I have any intention of trying to alter
my own way. It’s served me quite well, you know. If there’s an uttermost
farthing due, I’m out to get it.’

‘I don’t know what you mean.’

‘Don’t you? Well, I’m just wondering whether Catherine’s acquisitiveness
has stopped short at a mere transfer of furniture. I’ve an idea it may
have carried her well over on to the wrong side of the law.’

‘James!’

‘I’ve an extremely good memory, and it seems to me that there are quite
a lot of things missing of the small, expensive kind which would be
rather easily turned into cash. Let me open the gate for you.’

‘James—’

‘Goodnight, my dear. As I said, you haven’t really changed at all. It’s
a pity.’




                                 SEVEN


On the morning following her arrival, Mrs. Voycey took her friend Miss
Silver shopping. Melling had a butcher, a baker who also sold buns,
cake, biscuits, fruit preserved in glass bottles, and sweets, and a
grocer whose groceries merged by tactful degrees into the appurtenances
of a general shop. You could, for example, start at the left-hand side
of the counter and buy bacon, coffee, and semolina, and work gradually
to the right through apples, potatoes, and root vegetables, till you
arrived at twine, garden implements, shopping-bags, and boots and shoes
hanging like strings of onions from a nail high up on the wall.
Somewhere midway there was a stand of picture post-cards and a
blotting-pad, the latter an advertisement of the fact that the shop was
also a branch post-office, and that stamps and telegraph forms could be
obtained there.

With so many different attractions, it was naturally a very general
meeting-place. Miss Silver was introduced to Miss Ainger, the Vicar’s
sister, a formidable lady with iron-grey hair, a Roman nose, and the
sort of tweeds which suggest armour-plating. It might have been the size
of the check, black and white upon a ground of clerical grey, or it
might have been something about Miss Ainger’s figure, but the suggestion
was certainly there. She was scolding Mrs. Grover about the bacon, and
detached herself with difficulty.

‘Yes, much too thick, and with far too much fat—Did you say a
school-friend? Oh, how do you do?—Don’t let it happen again or I shall
have to tell the Vicar.’

Mrs. Grover’s colour rose. She pressed her lips together and restrained
herself. Mrs. Voycey moved a step nearer the post-cards and caught Miss
Cray by the arm.

‘Rietta, I want to introduce you to my friend Miss Silver. We were at
school together.’

Rietta said, ‘Oh—’ She was in a hurry, but, with twenty years’
experience, she knew that it wasn’t any use being in a hurry with Mrs.
Voycey. The large, firm hand upon her arm would remain there until she
had done her social duty. She said ‘How do you do?’ to Miss Maud Silver,
and was invited to tea that afternoon.

‘And it’s no use saying you can’t come, Rietta, because I know perfectly
well that Carr and Miss Bell have gone up to town for the day. The baker
saw them start. He mentioned it when he called, because there was a very
black cloud overhead at the time, and he noticed that Miss Bell hadn’t
got an umbrella so he hoped she wouldn’t get wet. He said he told her
she’d better take one, but she only laughed. How long are they staying
with you?’

‘I don’t quite know. Carr has brought down some manuscripts to read.’

‘He looks as if he needed a good long holiday. Then you’ll come to tea
this afternoon? I’ll ring Catherine up and ask her too. I want Maud
Silver to meet you both.’ She leaned closer and said in a throaty
whisper, ‘She’s quite a famous detective.’

Miss Silver was examining the stand of post-cards. She looked so much
less like a detective than anything Rietta could have imagined that she
was startled into saying,

‘What does she detect?’

‘Crime,’ said Mrs. Voycey right into her ear. She then let go of the arm
she had been holding and stepped back. ‘I’ll expect you at half past
four. I must really have a word with Mrs. Mayhew.’

Mrs. Mayhew was buying onions, and a stone of potatoes.

‘I’m sure I never thought I’d come to having to get either from anywhere
else except the garden, but it’s all Mr. Andrews can do to keep the
place tidy, and that’s the truth, Mr. Grover—indeed he can’t, and
there’s no getting from it. So if Sam can bring them up after school—’
She turned, a little meek woman with a plaintive manner, and was
immediately cornered by Mrs. Voycey.

‘Ah, Mrs. Mayhew—I suppose you’re very busy with Mr. Lessiter back.
Quite unexpected, wasn’t it? Only last week I said to the Vicar, ‘There
doesn’t seem to be any word of Melling House being opened up again,’ and
I said it was a pity. Well, now he’s back I hope he isn’t going to run
away again.’

‘I don’t know, I’m sure.’

Mrs. Voycey gave her hearty laugh.

‘We must all be very nice to him, and then perhaps he’ll stay.’ She came
a step nearer and dropped her voice. ‘Good news of your son, I hope.’

Mrs. Mayhew darted a frightened glance to the right and to the left. It
was no good. She was in the angle between the counter and the wall, and
get past Mrs. Voycey she couldn’t. Her own tone was almost inaudible as
she murmured,

‘He’s doing all right.’

Mrs. Voycey patted her kindly on the shoulder.

‘I was sure he would—you can tell him I said so. Things are different
to what they used to be thirty or forty years ago. There wasn’t any
second chance then, whether it was a boy or a girl, but it’s all quite
different now. He’ll be coming down to see you, I expect.’

Mrs. Mayhew had turned dreadfully pale. Mrs. Voycey meant well—everyone
in Melling knew how kind she was—but she couldn’t bear to talk about
Cyril, not right here in the shop with people listening. It made her
feel as if she was in a trap and couldn’t get out. And then the little
lady who looked like a governess coughed and touched Mrs. Voycey’s
arm—‘Pray, Cecilia, tell me something about these views. I should like
to send a card to my niece, Ethel Burkett’—and she was free. Her heart
was beating so hard that it confused her, and she was halfway up the
drive before she remembered that she had meant to buy peppermint
flavouring.

When the two ladies came out of the shop and were walking home across
the Green, Mrs. Voycey said,

‘That was Mrs. Mayhew. She and her husband are cook and butler at
Melling House. Their son has been a sad trouble to them.’

Miss Silver said,

‘She did not like your talking about him, Cecilia.’

Mrs. Voycey said in her hearty way,

‘It’s no good her being so sensitive. Everyone knows, and everyone feels
kindly about it and hopes that Cyril has made a fresh start. He was
their only one and they spoilt him—a dreadful mistake. Of course it
makes it hard for Mrs. Mayhew the Grover boy having turned out so
well—that was Mrs. Grover serving Dagmar Ainger at the end of the
counter. Allan and Cyril used to be friends. They both took
scholarships, and Allan went into Mr. Holderness’s office—a very good
opening. But Cyril took a job in London, and that’s what did the
mischief. He isn’t a bad boy, but he’s weak and they spoilt him. He
ought to have been where he could keep in touch with his home. It’s
terribly lonely for boys like that when they first go out into the
world, and the only company they can get is just the sort that isn’t
likely to do them any good. You know, Maud, I used to be dreadfully
disappointed about not having children, and I daresay I missed a great
deal, but it’s a tremendous responsibility—isn’t it?’

Miss Silver said it was.

‘Even a satisfactory boy like Allan Grover,’ pursued Mrs. Voycey. ‘Well,
I wouldn’t say it to anyone but you, and of course it’s too silly for
words, to say nothing of being exceedingly presumptuous—’

‘My _dear_ Cecilia!’

‘I was really shocked. And I can’t—no, I really can’t believe that she
gave him any encouragement. Of course at that age they don’t need any,
and she is a very pretty woman—’

‘My dear Cecilia!’

Mrs. Voycey nodded.

‘Yes—Catherine Welby. Quite too absurd, as I said. It began with his
offering to go and put up shelves in her house, and then he said he
would plant her bulbs, and she lent him books. And when she wanted to
pay him he wouldn’t take a penny, so of course she couldn’t let him go
on. He isn’t twenty-one yet, so she is more than old enough to be his
mother.’

Miss Silver coughed indulgently.

‘Oh, my dear Cecilia, what difference does that make?’




                                 EIGHT


James Lessiter sat back in his chair and looked across the table at Mr.
Holderness, who appeared to be considerably perturbed. A flush had risen
to the roots of the thick grey hair, deepening his florid complexion to
something very near the rich plum-colour achieved by the original
founder of the firm, a three-bottle man of the early Georgian period
whose portrait hung on the panelling behind him. He stared back at James
and said,

‘You shock me.’

James Lessiter’s eyebrows rose.

‘Do I really? I shouldn’t have thought anyone could practise as a
solicitor for getting on for forty years and still retain a faculty for
being shocked.’

There was a moment’s silence. The flush faded a little. Mr. Holderness
smiled faintly.

‘It is difficult to remain completely professional about people when one
has known them as long as I have known your family. Your mother was a
very old friend, and as to Catherine Welby, I was at her parents’
wedding—’

‘And so you would expect me to allow myself to be robbed.’

‘My dear James!’

James Lessiter smiled.

‘How very much alike everyone is. That is exactly what Rietta said.’

‘You have spoken to her about this—distressing suspicion of yours?’

‘I told her there were a good many things missing, and that it wouldn’t
surprise me to find that Catherine knew where they had gone, and—what
they had fetched. Like you, all she could find to say was, “My dear
James!” ’

Mr. Holderness laid down the pencil he had been balancing and placed his
fingertips together. It was a pose familiar to any client of long
standing, and indicated that he was about to counsel moderation.

‘I alluded just now to this idea of yours as a distressing suspicion.
You cannot wish to precipitate a family scandal upon a mere suspicion.’

‘Oh, no.’

‘I was sure of it. Your mother was extremely fond of Catherine. If there
is no evidence to the contrary, there would be a strong presumption that
the furniture at the Gate House was intended to be a gift.’

James continued to smile.

‘My mother left Catherine five hundred pounds. By a few strokes of the
pen she could have added, “and the furniture of the Gate House,” or
words to that effect. Yet she did not do so. If it comes to
presumptions, that would be one on the other side. The will never
mentions the furniture. Did my mother ever mention it to you?’

‘Not precisely.’

‘What do you mean by not precisely?’

The fingertips came apart. The pencil was taken up again.

‘Well, as a matter of fact, I mentioned it to her.’

‘And she said?’

‘She put the matter aside. She could be very peremptory, you know. I
cannot pretend to give her exact words. The will was drawn more than ten
years ago, but my recollection is that she said something like “That
doesn’t come into it.” Considered in the light of what you have been
saying, it might be argued that her will had no concern with the
furniture because she had already given it to Catherine—’

‘_Or_ because she had no intention of giving it to her. You didn’t ask
her what she meant?’

‘No—she was being extremely peremptory.’

James laughed.

‘I’ve no doubt of it! What I shall continue to doubt is that my mother
had any intention of letting Catherine get away with so much valuable
stuff.’

Mr. Holderness rolled the pencil meditatively to and fro between finger
and thumb.

‘You may have some grounds for such a doubt, but you have no certainty.
I daresay, if the truth were known, that your mother never defined the
situation very clearly. When she told Catherine that she might have this
or that from Melling House she may have intended a loan, or she may have
intended a gift, or she may have had no very clear intention. Catherine,
on the other hand, might naturally have concluded that the things were
being given to her. I think, if I may say so, that it would be a pity to
encourage a suspicion which you cannot substantiate.’

James Lessiter sat up straight and formidable.

‘Who says I can’t substantiate it? I will if I can.’

Mr. Holderness looked shocked all over again. His colour did not mount
so vigorously as before, nor did it attain to quite so deep a shade. He
stopped rolling his pencil and said,

‘Really—’

James nodded.

‘I know, I know—you think I ought to let it slide. Well, I’m not going
to. I have an extreme dislike for being taken for a fool, and an even
more extreme dislike for being done down—I can assure you that very few
people have ever got away with it. I’ve got an idea that there’s been
quite a lot going on behind my back. Well, I mean to get to the bottom
of it, and when I do, anyone who thought he could take advantage of my
absence is going to find himself in Queer Street.’

Mr. Holderness put up a hand.

‘My dear James, I hope you don’t mean that you suspect the Mayhews. Your
mother had every confidence—’

James Lessiter laughed.

‘If there weren’t so much confidence, there would be no room for the
confidence trick, would there? Now I’m going to tell you something. You
say I can’t prove my suspicions because my mother held her tongue and
didn’t put anything in her will. What she did do was to write to me a
couple of days before she died. Would you like to know what she said?’

‘I should indeed.’

‘I can give it you verbatim. “I have not troubled you with letters about
business as I hope you will soon be coming home. Meanwhile, in case of
accident, I should like you to know that I have kept a careful note of
everything.” A careful note of everything—that should tell us what we
want to know, shouldn’t it?’

‘It might,’ said Mr. Holderness slowly.

‘Oh, I think you are too cautious. I think we may assume that it would.
I haven’t found the note yet. My mother, like so many women, had a
profound distrust of banks and office safes. It would, of course, have
been a great deal more sensible—and convenient—if she had left this
memorandum in your hands, but she didn’t. I have been through the
drawers of her writing-table and a filing-cabinet which she had in the
library, but for a special paper of this kind she may have had some
special hiding-place. I have every hope that I shall find it, and when I
do—’

Mr. Holderness lifted his eyes and looked steadily and gravely across
the table.

‘You sound vindictive.’

James laughed easily.

‘Oh, yes.’

‘You would really proceed to extremes?’

‘I should prosecute.’




                                  NINE


Mrs. Voycey’s tea-party went off as tea-parties do. Home-made scones
were partaken of, and home-made quince preserve offered with modest
pride.

‘My dear mother’s recipe. A lovely colour, isn’t it? It reminds me of
that deep red dress of yours, Rietta. But what I would like to know is
how to keep the pale green colour of the fruit as they do in Portugal. I
stayed out there for a month when I was a girl, and they made a most
delicious quince cheese which they called marmalada, the colour of green
grapes and turned out of a jelly-mould. You ate it in slabs, and it was
crystallized all over the top—quite terribly good. But I never met
anyone who could tell me how it was done. The minute I boil quinces with
sugar they behave like traffic lights—first they go amber, and then
they go red.’

Mrs. Voycey laughed very heartily at her own joke and proceeded to
terrible disclosures about Portuguese plumbing. Whilst Miss Silver
shared her views as to up-to-date sanitation, it was, in her opinion, a
subject not at all suited to the tea-table. She coughed and endeavoured
to change it, but it was some time before she was able to do so, and
then, a good deal to her distaste, she found her professional activities
the next topic of Cecilia’s rattling tongue. The whole story of the
extraordinary affair of the Eternity Earring as retailed by Miss Alvinia
Grey was poured out.

No use for Miss Silver to say with her slight admonitory cough, ‘I
prefer not to talk about it,’ or even, ‘My dear Cecilia, I never discuss
my cases.’ Even as a schoolgirl it had always been very difficult to
stop Cissy Christopher. As an elderly woman in her own house it was
quite impossible to check or deflect Cecilia Voycey. Miss Silver sighed
and gave up the attempt. At the earliest possible opportunity she
introduced the subject of education, and found herself able to exchange
views in a very interesting manner with Miss Rietta Cray.

‘I spent twenty years in the scholastic profession.’

Something stirred at the back of Rietta’s mind and vanished again in the
shadows. A little later it was there again—something just on the edge
of being remembered. And then all at once, in the middle of Catherine
being plaintive about the cost of living, Mrs. Voycey urging everyone to
have more tea, and Miss Silver interrupting a quotation from Tennyson to
say, ‘No, thank you, dear,’ it came to her.

‘ “Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers”, as Lord Tennyson so aptly
says.’

Rietta said, ‘Oh—’ And then abruptly, ‘Are you Randal March’s Miss
Silver?’

Miss Silver smiled in a gratified manner.

‘He and his sisters were pupils of mine. The friendship has, I am glad
to say, been maintained. Do you know the Marches?’

‘I was at school with Isabel and Margaret. They were big girls when I
was a little one. Miss Atkinson always said how well grounded they were.
Randal was younger of course—about my age. He’s Chief Constable of the
county now.’

‘Yes. I had the pleasure of lunching with him in town not long ago.
Isabel has married, you know. A widower with several children—extremely
suitable. In my experience these late marriages are often very happy.
People have learned to appreciate companionship. Margaret, of course,
married in her early twenties, but it has turned out very well.’

They went on talking about the Marches.

Catherine and Rietta walked home together. It was deep dusk. There were
no lights except a distant yellow gleam here and there where a curtain
had been carelessly drawn in one of the cottages which bordered the
Green. When they had gone a little way, Catherine said with sudden
energy,

‘Rietta, what did James say to you last night? Did he talk about me?’

Rietta considered. There seemed to be no reason why she should hold her
tongue. She said,

‘He asked me whether I knew what arrangement his mother had made with
you about the Gate House.’

‘What did you say?’

‘I said I didn’t know.’

Catherine took a quick breath.

‘Anything else?’

‘He asked me about the furniture.’

‘What about it?’

‘Whether it was given or lent.’

‘And what did you say to that?’

‘Just what I said before—I didn’t know.’

Catherine brought her hands together in sharp exasperation.

‘Aunt Mildred gave me the furniture—you know she did—I’ve told you a
dozen times! Why couldn’t you say so?’

Rietta said in her brusque way,

‘What you’ve told me isn’t evidence.’

‘You mean you don’t believe me when I tell you—when I _tell_ you that
she gave me the things?’

‘No, I don’t mean that. I mean just what I said—what you told me isn’t
evidence.’

‘And what evidence do you want?’

How exactly like Catherine to make a scene about nothing. Rietta
wondered, as she had often wondered before, whether the old friendship
was really worth while. Only when you have known someone all your life
and you live practically next door to each other in a village, there
isn’t much you can do about it except try and keep your temper. She said
as coolly as she could,

‘It isn’t what _I_ want—it’s James. And what he wants is
evidence—something to show his mother’s intention. He asked whether she
had ever said anything.’

‘What did you say?’ The words came quick and angry.

‘I said your mother told me, “I’m letting Catherine have the Gate House.
I’ve told her she can have the two ground-floor rooms knocked into one,
and I suppose I shall have to let her have some furniture”.’

‘There—you see! What did he say to that?’

‘That it might mean anything,’ said Rietta drily.

‘_Oh!_’ It was a gasp of pure rage, followed by a sharp, ‘How perfectly
outrageous!’

They were in the middle of the Green on the narrow footpath which cut
across it. Rietta stopped.

‘Catherine, don’t you see you can’t take James like that? You’ll only
get his back up. He looks on the whole thing as a business
transaction——’

Catherine broke in with an edge to her voice.

‘Of course you would stand up for him—we all know that!’

Rietta’s temper rose. She restrained it.

‘I’m not standing up for him—I’m telling you how he looks at the thing.
Opposition always puts his back up. Unless he has changed very much, the
best thing you can do is to lay your cards on the table and tell him the
exact truth.’

‘What do you think I’ve been telling him—lies?’

‘Something betwixt and between,’ said Rietta in a blunt voice.

‘How dare you!’ She began to walk on quickly.

Rietta caught her up.

‘Well, you asked me. Look here, Catherine, what’s the good of going on
like this? You know, and I know, what Aunt Mildred was like, and what is
more, James knows too. She had spasms of being businesslike, but most of
the time she couldn’t be bothered. She was an autocrat to her
fingertips, and she was as changeable as a weathercock. If she told you
you could have something, she might have meant it for a present one day
and not meant it the next, or she might never have meant it at all. And
if you want to know what I really think, well, I don’t believe she did
mean to give you the things outright—some of them are too valuable. But
I didn’t say that to James.’

‘But you will.’

‘No. He didn’t ask me, and I shouldn’t have said it if he had. It’s just
what I think.’

They walked along in silence for a minute or two. Then Catherine’s hand
came out and caught at Rietta’s arm. She said in a trembling voice,

‘I don’t know what to do.’

‘Do what I said, put your cards on the table.’

‘I can’t.’

‘Why can’t you?’

‘I can’t—he might turn nasty.’

A little contempt came into Rietta’s tone.

‘What can he do? If you don’t make him angry, he’ll probably take back
the half-dozen things which are really valuable and let you keep the
rest.’

Catherine’s grip became desperate.

‘Rietta—I’d better tell you—it’s worse than that. I—well, I sold some
of them.’

‘Oh!’

Catherine shook the arm she was holding.

‘You needn’t say “Oh!” at me like that. They were mine to do what I
liked with. Aunt Mildred gave them to me—I tell you she gave them to
me!’

‘What did you sell?’

‘There were some miniatures, and—and a snuffbox—and a silver tea-set.
I got three hundred for one of the miniatures. It was a Cosway—really
very pretty—I’d liked to have kept it. And the tea-set was Queen Anne.
I got quite a lot for that.’

‘Catherine!’

Catherine let go and pushed her away.

‘Don’t be a prig—one must dress! If you’re going to blame anyone, what
about Edward, never telling me he was head over ears in debt, and
leaving me practically without a penny! And now, I suppose, you’ll go
and tell James!’

‘You don’t suppose anything of the sort,’ said Rietta coolly.

Catherine came close again.

‘What do you think he’ll do?’

‘I should think it would depend on what he finds out.’

‘He knows the things have gone—the snuffbox, and the miniatures, and
the tea-set. I mean, he knows they’re not at Melling House, and Mrs.
Mayhew told him Aunt Mildred let me have the tea-set. He said last night
that he hoped it wouldn’t inconvenience me, but of course it was an
heirloom and he must have it back. As if it mattered whether it was an
heirloom or not! He hasn’t any children!’

After a moment’s silence Rietta said,

‘You’ve got yourself into a mess.’

‘What’s the good of telling me that? What am I to _do_?’

‘I’ve told you.’

There was a pause. Then Catherine said under her breath,

‘He says his mother made out a—a memorandum of everything she’d
done—all the business things, you know—while he was away. It hasn’t
turned up yet, but when it does—’ Her voice petered out.

Rietta finished the sentence.

‘When it does, you don’t think there will be anything about giving you
the Cosway miniature and the Queen Anne tea-set.’

‘She might have forgotten to put them down,’ said Catherine in an
extinguished tone.

They had reached the edge of the Green. As they stood, the Gate House
lay to the left, and the White Cottage to the right. Catherine turned to
where the tall pillars loomed up in the dusk. She said ‘Goodnight’, and
went across the road.

Rietta took her own way, but before she could reach the Cottage gate she
heard quick footsteps on the path. Catherine came up with her and put
out a hand.

‘I want to ask you something——’

‘Yes?’

‘It would make a lot of difference if you could remember Aunt Mildred
saying she had given me those things——’

‘I don’t remember anything of the sort.’

‘You could if you tried.’

Rietta Cray said, ‘Nonsense!’ She made a movement to go, but Catherine
held her.

‘Rietta—listen a minute! After he came back last night James was’—she
caught her breath—‘rather frightening. Polite, you know, but in that
sort of icy way. He talked about things being missing—oh, it wasn’t so
much what he said, it was a sort of undercurrent. I thought he wanted to
frighten me, and I tried not to show it, but I think he saw I was
frightened, and I think he enjoyed it. I haven’t ever done anything to
make him feel like that, but I got the most horrid sort of impression
that he would hurt me if he could, and that he would enjoy doing it.’

Rietta stood perfectly still. The shadow which she had shut away all
those years ago came out and stood at her shoulder.

Catherine spoke in a whispering voice.

‘Rietta—when you and James were engaged—was he like that? It would
come out if you were engaged to someone. Did he like—_hurting_?’

Rietta stepped back. She said, ‘Yes’, and then she walked quickly away,
lifted the latch of her own gate, and went in.




                                  TEN


James Lessiter drove back from Lenton. He liked driving at night in
these country lanes, where the headlights made a bright path for the car
and all you had to do was to take your way along it. It gave him a sense
of effortless power. He did not make the conscious comparison, but he
had a sense of life stretching before him just like that. He had made a
great deal of money, and he expected to make a great deal more. When you
had made a certain amount it went on making itself. Money was power. He
thought of the boy who had left Melling more than twenty years ago, and
his sense of well-being became something very like triumph. How right he
had been. Instead of allowing himself to go down with a ship which had
been foundering for three generations he had cut loose and made for the
shore. He had no regrets. The house could go. If he wanted a place in
the country, there were more amusing spots than Melling. Nowadays you
didn’t want a great big barrack of a place built for the days when
house-parties lasted for weeks and large staffs could be counted upon.
Something modern and labour-saving—a big room where you could throw a
party—half a dozen bedrooms. Meanwhile he rather thought he was going
to enjoy himself. He had a score or two to pay off, and he was looking
forward to the payment. Something very pleasing about being able to
arrange one’s own private day of judgment.

He turned in between the tall pillars of Melling House and saw the beam
of the headlights slide in front of him up the drive, whitening the
neglected gravel, striking bright patches of green from holly and
rhododendron. All at once the light picked up a movement in the crowded
undergrowth. He thought someone had stepped aside into the bushes, but
he couldn’t have sworn to it. It might have been a tradesman’s boy
getting out of the way of the car, or it might have been someone coming
up to see the Mayhews. Then he remembered that it was their half-day out
and that they would be in Lenton. Mrs. Mayhew had asked if it would be
all right for them to go. There was to be cold supper left ready for him
in the dining-room.

He drove right on into the garage, rather pleased at the idea of having
the house to himself. It would be a good opportunity for a thorough
search of his mother’s bedroom and sitting-room. He meant to find that
memorandum. He had made up his mind that it would be somewhere in one of
those two rooms. She had been getting feeble—not going downstairs any
more.

He let himself in by the front door and clicked on the lights in the
hall. The person who was just emerging from the drive stood still and
saw the two hall windows spring into sight.

A good deal later the telephone-bell rang in Catherine Welby’s charming
room. She put down her book and lifted the receiver. Her hand tightened
on it when she heard James Lessiter’s voice.

‘Is that you, Catherine? I thought you would be glad to know that I have
found that memorandum.’

‘Oh—’ For the life of her she couldn’t think of anything to say.

‘I was afraid it might have been destroyed, because of course Mr.
Holderness collected all the papers he could find, and Mrs. Mayhew tells
me that you were in and out a good deal.’

Catherine’s left hand came up to her throat.

‘I did what I could.’

‘I’ve no doubt of it. But it was—where do you think?’

‘I’ve no idea.’

Her mouth was dry. She mustn’t let her voice sound different.

‘You’ll never guess—you didn’t guess, did you? It was in a volume of
the late Vicar’s sermons. I remember when he had them printed and gave
her the copy—don’t you? She could be perfectly certain no one would
meddle with it there. I only found it because after I’d looked
everywhere else I took all the books out of her book-case and shook
them. Perseverance rewarded!’

Catherine said nothing at all. She took a quick breath. The sound of it
reached James Lessiter and gave him a lively pleasure.

‘Well now,’ he said briskly, ‘you’ll be delighted to hear that the
memorandum makes your position perfectly clear. You were originally
supposed to pay a nominal rent of ten shillings a month, but after one
or two payments nothing more was said about it and the rent question
lapsed. Then as regards the furniture—Did you say anything?’

‘No——’ She got the one word out, but she couldn’t have managed
another.

‘Well, as regards the furniture the memorandum is quite explicit. My
mother says, “I am not quite sure what furniture Catherine has at the
Gate House. I have let her have things from time to time, but of course
it was clearly understood that they were only lent. It was better that
they should be used, and she is very careful. I think you might let her
keep enough for a small house if it does not suit you to let her stay on
at the Gate House. Nothing valuable of course, just useful things. She
has the small Queen Anne tea-set which I lent her during the war when
china was so difficult to get. It was, of course, understood that it was
only a loan”.’

Catherine spoke from a tight throat.

‘That isn’t true. She gave it to me.’

‘Well, well. Do you know, if this case came into court, I’m afraid the
memorandum would be taken as evidence that she didn’t do anything of the
sort.’

Again Catherine only got out the one word.

‘Court——’

‘Certainly. You see, this is a business matter, and I am a business man.
I don’t want there to be any mistake about that. I have just informed
Holderness——’

With a shock of terror Catherine came to herself. The fear that had
paralysed her became a driving force.

‘James—you can’t possibly mean——’

He said, ‘Can’t I?’ And then, ‘I advise you to believe that I do.’




                                 ELEVEN


Carr and Fancy came back by the 6.30 and took a taxi from Lenton. They
were hungry and cheerful. Fancy had had a marvellous time, because she
had met a friend who had not only taken her out to lunch but had
introduced her to three separate people, each one of whom had declared
that he or she could get her a job with simply no difficulty at all.

‘And one of them was in films. He said I’d be too photogenic, and I told
him I was, because I do take marvellously. So I showed him the photos I
had in my bag—wasn’t it lucky I’d got them—only I shouldn’t dream of
going up to town without them, because you never can tell, can you? And
he said he’d show them to a friend of his who is the big noise at the
Atlanta Studios, and of course what he says goes. Wouldn’t it be simply
marvellous if I got a job in films?’

Carr put his arm round her shoulders quite affectionately and said,

‘Darling, you can’t act.’

The big blue eyes opened in surprise.

‘How do you know?’

‘I’ve seen you try.’

‘So you have.’ There was no rancour in her voice. ‘Do you think it
matters? And, you know, you’re sort of funny that way—a lot of people
liked me. And it wasn’t a proper part either—I only had two sentences
to say.’

He laughed again.

‘Darling, you were rotten.’

Rietta, helping sausage loaf and a mixed salad, thought, ‘I haven’t
heard him laugh like that since I don’t know when. I wonder if they’re
engaged. She isn’t the right sort for him. I wonder how it will turn
out. I think she’s got more heart than Marjory had—she couldn’t very
well have less. Oh, God—why does one bring up children!’

Whatever the future was going to be, there was no doubt about Carr’s
access of spirits in the present. He had been into the office and found
Jack Smithers elated over a very advantageous sale of film rights. He
also described, with a good deal of verve, a manuscript which they had
had pressed upon them as a discovery of the age by a pontifical
gentleman with something of a name in politics.

‘It’s written by a child of ten without stops or capitals, and he says
it’s absolutely _the_ last word in the pure genius of simplicity.
Smithers says it’s tripe, but of course you never can tell whether that
sort of thing mayn’t come off. There’s a sort of borderline between
tripe and genius, and there have been hits before now which have had a
foot on either side of it.’

He and Rietta produced instances and wrangled joyously about them. It
was all very much like the old times before Marjory happened. If Fancy
felt left out in the cold she didn’t show it, and acquired merit with
Rietta, who conceded that she seemed to be very sweet-tempered. As a
matter of fact Fancy was quite pleased not to have to talk, her mind
being entirely taken up with a model she had seen at
Estelle’s—twenty-five guineas, and it looked every penny of it, but she
knew one of the girls who modelled there, and if Maudie could give her
the low-down on how the pleats went, she thought she could copy it. And
talk about hits—it would be just about smashing!

She was still thinking about it when they had finished the washing up
and Henry Ainger came in, as he did a dozen times a week for the
perfectly simple reason that he couldn’t keep away from Rietta Cray. It
was a reason which was patent to everyone in the village. Henry himself
displayed it with perfect simplicity. He loved Rietta, and if she ever
consented to marry him, he would be the happiest of men. He didn’t mind
who knew about it, which was one of the things that exasperated his
sister. She had tried scolding him as she had scolded Mrs. Grover about
the bacon, but you cannot really make a success of scolding a man who
merely smiles and says, ‘I shouldn’t worry, my dear.’

Henry came in cheerfully, put down a bundle of picture-papers—‘Had them
sent to me—thought you’d like to see them’—wouldn’t take coffee
because he was on his way to see old Mrs. Wingfold at Hill Farm,
wouldn’t sit down for the same reason, and ended by taking the cup which
Rietta put into his hand and drinking from it standing up in front of
the fire.

‘She thinks she’s dying. Of course she isn’t. It happens about three
times a month, but I must go or she might, and then I’d never forgive
myself. You make the best coffee I know, Rietta.’

She smiled, her face softening. It is agreeable to be loved when the
lover demands nothing except the privilege of worship, and she was very
fond of Henry Ainger. He was, as she had once said, so very nearly an
angel. Not that he looked like one, or like a parson either, in a pair
of old grey flannel slacks, a thick white sweater, and a disreputable
raincoat. Above it his rosy face, round blue eyes, and thick fair hair
gave him rather the look of a schoolboy in spite of his forty-five
years. In daylight you could see that there was a good deal of grey in
the hair, but the look of youth would be there when he was ninety. He
finished his coffee, had a second cup, and said goodnight.

At the door he turned.

‘Mrs. Mayhew’s back early. I came out in the bus with her from Lenton. I
thought she looked worried. I hope it isn’t Cyril again.’

Carr came back from the book-case where he had been dallying.

‘I saw Cyril Mayhew at the station. He came down on the same train that
we did.’

Rietta held out a cup of coffee to him.

‘Did you speak to him?’

‘No—I was going to offer him a lift, but he slipped away.’

‘He may not have been coming here. He doesn’t——’ She paused and added,
‘officially.’

Carr raised his eyebrows.

‘Anything the matter?’

She said, ‘Some trouble—I don’t want to rake it up.’ She turned to
Henry Ainger. ‘Mrs. Mayhew couldn’t have known he was coming, or she’d
have met the train and they’d have come out together.’

‘She might. I hope there’s nothing wrong. I was surprised to see her
hurrying back like that on her evening out. Mayhew wasn’t with her.’

Rietta frowned a little.

‘James Lessiter’s up at the House. I expect she felt she had to come
back and give him something to eat. I don’t suppose he’s in the way of
doing anything for himself.’

Henry agreed.

‘I don’t suppose he is. He seems to have made a lot of money. There’s a
picture of him in one of those papers. He’s just pulled off some big
deal. I must see if I can get something out of him for the organ fund.’

The door slammed after him—the banging of doors was one of Henry’s less
angelic habits—and almost at the same moment the telephone-bell
clamoured from the dining-room. As Rietta went to answer it she saw Carr
stretch out his hand to the pile of picture-papers.

She shut both doors, picked up the receiver, and heard Catherine’s
voice, blurred and shaken.

‘Rietta—is it you?’

‘Yes. What’s the matter? You sound——’

‘If it was only sounding——’ She broke off on a choked breath.

‘Catherine, what is it?’

She was beginning to be seriously alarmed. None of this was like
Catherine. She had known her for more than forty years, and she had
never known her like this. When things went wrong Catherine passed by on
the other side. Even Edward Welby’s death had always been presented as a
lack of consideration on his part rather than an occasion for
heartbreak. The ensuing financial stringency had not prevented her from
acquiring mourning garments of a most expensive and becoming nature.
Rietta had listened to her being reproachful, complacent, plaintive.
This was something different.

‘Rietta—it’s what we were talking about. He rang up—he’s found that
damned memorandum. Aunt Mildred must have been out of her mind. It was
written just before she died. You know how forgetful she was.’

‘Was she?’ Rietta’s tone was dry.

The line throbbed with Catherine’s indignation.

‘You know she was! She forgot simply everything!’

‘It’s no use your asking me to say that, because I can’t. What does the
memorandum say?’

‘It says the things were lent. She must have been mad!’

‘Does it mention them by name?’

‘Yes, it does. It’s completely and perfectly damnable. I can’t give them
back—you know I can’t. And I believe _he_ knows too. That’s what
frightens me so much—he knows, and he’s enjoying it. He’s got a down on
me, I’m sure I don’t know why. Rietta, he—he said he’d rung up Mr.
Holderness.’

‘Mr. Holderness won’t encourage him to make a scandal.’

‘He won’t be able to stop him. Nobody ever could stop James when he’d
made up his mind—you know that as well as I do. There’s only one
thing—Rietta, if you went to him—if you told him his mother really
didn’t remember things from one day to another——’

Rietta said harshly, ‘No!’

‘Rietta——’

‘No, Catherine, I won’t! And it wouldn’t be the least bit of good if I
did—there’s Mr. Holderness, and the doctor, to say nothing of the
Mayhews and Mrs. Fellow. Mrs. Lessiter knew perfectly well what she was
doing, and you know it. I won’t tell lies about her.’

There was a dead silence. After it had gone on for a long minute
Catherine said,

‘Then anything that happens will be your fault. I’m _desperate_!’




                                 TWELVE


As Rietta came back into the sitting-room she saw Carr Robertson on his
feet. Her mind was full of her conversation with Catherine—what she had
said, what Catherine had said, what James Lessiter might be going to do.
And then she saw Carr’s face, and everything went. One of the papers
which Henry Ainger had brought lay open across the table. He stood over
it now, his hand on it, pointing, every muscle taut, eyes blazing from a
colourless face. Fancy was leaning forward, frightened, her red mouth a
little open.

Rietta came to him and said his name. When she touched his arm it felt
like a bar of steel. She looked where the hand pointed and saw the
photograph which Mrs. Lessiter had been so proud of—James as she had
seen him last night at Catherine Welby’s.

In a voice that was just above a whisper Carr said,

‘Is that James Lessiter?’

Rietta said, ‘Yes.’

Still in that dreadful quiet tone, he said,

‘He’s the man I’ve been looking for. He’s the man who took Marjory away.
I’ve got him now!’

‘Carr—for God’s sake——’

He wrenched away from her hand and went striding out of the room. The
door banged, the front door banged. The striding steps went down the
flagged path, the gate clapped to.

Fancy said something, but Rietta didn’t wait to hear what it was. She
caught up an old raincoat from the passage and ran out by the back door
and through the garden to the gate which opened on the grounds of
Melling House. She got her arms into the coat sleeves somehow and ran
on. How many hundred times had James Lessiter waited for her just here
in the shadow of the trees?

With the gate left open behind her she ran through the woodland and out
upon the open ground beyond. Her feet knew every step of the way. There
was light enough when memory held so bright a candle.

She struck through shrubs into the drive and stood there, quieting her
breath to listen. If Carr was making for the house he must come this
way. He could not have passed, because he had to follow two sides of the
triangle while she had cut across its base. She listened, and heard her
own breath, her own thudding pulses, and as these died down, all the
little sounds which go by unnoticed in the day—leaf touching leaf in a
light breeze, the faint rub of one twig against another, a bird
stirring, some tiny creature moving in the undergrowth. There were no
footsteps.

She walked quickly up the drive, not running now, because she was sure
that Carr could not be ahead of her and it would not serve her purpose
to arrive out of breath. The more reasonable pace allowed thought to
clear and become conscious again. Everything between this moment and
that in which Carr had banged out of the house had been governed by pure
panic instinct. Now she began to take order with what was in her mind,
to sort out what she was going to say to James Lessiter. She thought
back to last night at Catherine’s. He hadn’t remembered Margaret’s
married name—and if he had, the world was full of Robertsons. Carr
Robertson had meant nothing to him. Mrs. Carr Robertson had meant
Marjory, a pretty blonde girl bored with her husband. No connection at
all with Melling and Rietta Cray. But last night—last night he must
have known. Their words came back to her:

‘Carr Robertson ... How old is the boy?’

‘Beyond being called one. He’s twenty-eight.’

‘Married?’

‘He was. She died two years ago.’

And Catherine leaning sideways to put down her coffee-cup and saying,

‘None of us really knew Marjory.’

He must have known then. James Lessiter must have known then.

She came out on the gravel sweep at the front of the house. The huge
square building stood up black against the sky, the light wind moved in
the open space before it. All the windows were dark—not an edge to any
blind, not a glow behind any curtain.

She turned the near corner of the house where a flagged path ran between
a narrow flower-bed and the hedge which presently bent back to enclose a
small formal garden. Here the flower-bed ended and a clump of shrubs
took its place beside the glass door leading from the study. Passing
them, Rietta drew a breath of relief. The study curtains were drawn and
a red glow came through them. It was plain that the room was lighted.
Two steps led up to it. Rietta stood on the bottom one and knocked upon
the glass. There was a moment in which she listened and heard a chair
pushed back. Steps came to the window, the curtain was held aside. She
could see the room brightly and warmly lit—the writing-table facing
her—the hand which held the curtain back.

As the light fell on her face, James Lessiter came from behind the heavy
red drapery, turned the key in the lock, and opened the door. She
stepped in, shutting and locking it behind her. The curtains fell again
in their accustomed folds. Outside among the bushes someone moved, came
up the two steps, and stood there pressed close against the glass, all
without a sound.

James stared in astonishment and some admiration.

‘My dear Rietta!’

Her colour was bright and high, her breath a little uneven. The room was
very warm. She let the raincoat slip down upon a chair. He exclaimed,

‘What have you done to your hand?’

She looked down, startled, and saw the blood running from a scratch on
her wrist.

‘I must have done it coming through the wood—I didn’t know.’

He offered his handkerchief, and she took it.

‘It’s nothing at all—I didn’t know I’d done it. I ought to have a
handkerchief somewhere, but one has no pockets.’

She wore the dark red dress she had worn last night. There was a small
triangular tear near the hem.

‘There must have been brambles in the wood—I didn’t notice.’

He laughed.

‘In such a hurry?’

‘Yes.’

She came round the table to the hearth behind it and stood there. He had
been burning papers. The grate was full. Heat came from it, but no glow.
It was strange to be here in this room with James. Everything in it was
familiar. Here they had kissed, agonised, quarrelled, parted. Here they
met again. Nothing in the room had changed—the massive table; the
old-fashioned carpet; the wallpaper with its sombre metallic gleams; the
family portraits, rather forbidding. A handsome half-length of Mrs.
Lessiter with an ostrich-feather fan over the mantelpiece, and on the
black marble shelf below the heavy ormolu clock. Two on either side of
it, the golden Florentine figures which she had always loved. They
represented the four Seasons—Spring, in a garland trailing across her
slim body—a naked Summer—Autumn, crowned with vine-leaves and holding
up a bunch of grapes—Winter, catching a wisp of drapery about her. Even
now she could think them lovely. Some things perished, but others
endured. The room was hot, but everything in her shivered with cold. She
looked at him and said gravely,

‘Carr has found out.’

James leaned back against the writing-table, handsome, sure of himself,
not exactly smiling but with a definite hint of amusement.

‘That sounds intriguing. What has Carr found out?’

‘That you ran away with his wife.’

He raised his eyebrows slightly.

‘Didn’t he know?’

‘Of course he didn’t. Nor did you until last night at Catherine’s.’

He reached into his pocket for a gold cigarette-case, opened it,
selected a cigarette, and then, as if suddenly recollecting himself,
held out the case to her.

‘My dear Rietta, forgive me.’

She shook her head.

‘I don’t smoke.’

‘Quite right!’ The case went back into his pocket, he struck a match.
‘It would be out of character,’—he drew at his cigarette, blew out a
mouthful of smoke, and added—‘Pallas Athene!’

She was suddenly, sharply angry. Colour burned in her cheeks. Her voice
hardened.

‘I’ve come to warn you. It was a frightful shock—I don’t know what he
might do.’

‘Really? May I ask why?’

‘Do you have to ask? I didn’t like Marjory very much, but she was quite
young—only twenty-four when she died. You took her away from her
husband and her home, you left her penniless in France. She had to sell
nearly everything she had in order to struggle back. She travelled in
bitter weather without a coat, and died two days later of pneumonia.
Carr didn’t know the name of the man she’d gone off with, but he found
your photograph in the back of her powder-compact. He saw a reproduction
of the same photograph with your name under it in a picture-paper this
evening. He regards you as Marjory’s murderer, and I’m afraid of what he
may do.’

James had his cigarette held lightly between the second and third finger
of a well-groomed hand. He sketched a salute with it.

‘And you came here to protect me? How extremely charming of you!’

Her dark brows drew together. She said,

‘Don’t!’

‘Don’t what?’

‘Don’t talk to me like that. Carr rushed out of the house. I don’t know
where he is, and I don’t know what he may do. He thinks you murdered his
wife.’

‘Then he ought to have gone to the police station.’

Rietta stamped her foot. In a stormy voice which obliterated more than
twenty years of separation she said,

‘Stop it, James!’

He stood up, came over to her, and tossed his cigarette into the fire.

‘All right. Now suppose you listen to a few facts. You’re forty-three
years old, and if you don’t know what Marjory was like you’ve been
wasting your time. I don’t pretend to morality, but I shouldn’t have
wasted _my_ time over a girl who wasn’t easy money. Marjory was dead
easy. She was bored with her life, she was bored with her husband—and
she was fed to the teeth with being a grass widow, she wanted to have a
good time. I took her to France and I gave her a rattling good time.
Then I had to fly over to the States on business, and she got bored
again. She walked out of the flat where I’d left her and moved in on a
gentleman who had been running after her a good deal—wealthy
international financier. I could have told her he wasn’t a good
investment. I imagine he found her out doing something he didn’t care
about and pitched her into the street. He was perfectly capable of it.
It may surprise you, but I’m not. I should at least have given her a
third-class ticket back to London.’

‘Is that the truth—all that about her leaving you and going to someone
else?’

‘Gospel, my dear.’

She said bitterly, ‘When you talk like that you make everything sound
like a lie.’

He said quite soberly, ‘It’s true nevertheless.’

He went back to the table and stood half turned away, fingering the
papers which lay there. Presently he lifted one of them, looked at it,
laughed, and turned to face her.

‘Your young firebrand hasn’t turned up here, so I imagine he’s walking
his feelings off. When he comes home you can administer those cooling
facts. He can’t have been married to Marjory for three years without
finding her out. I think you’ll be able to get him to see reason. I’ve
got a good deal of business on hand just now—I don’t particularly want
to be murdered!’ He laughed a little. ‘Funny you should come along
tonight, Rietta. I’ve been burning your letters.’

‘My letters?’

‘Love’s young dream! Most instructive—a little black ash in the
fireplace. But they made a very hot fire—that’s why the room is so
warm.’

She looked down at the heaped ash which choked the fireplace. Some of it
still kept the shape of those folded letters. The curled edges wavered
in the chimney-draught, a few red sparks ran to and fro, hurrying to be
gone. She frowned at them, stern and pale.

James was speaking.

‘I had to turn everything out because I was looking for a memorandum my
mother left me—a very interesting memorandum.’ He laughed a little.
‘Every one is going to hear a good deal more about it before we are
through.’ Malice sparkled in his eyes. ‘Here it is, on the table, and
some people would be glad if it wasn’t. It would reassure them a good
deal if they could be certain that it was in ashes like your letters. I
found them, you know, when I was looking for it. They were locked up
where I left them when I went away. And this with them.’

He put the paper he was holding into her hand—an old will-form,
yellowing. She stared at it, uncomprehending at first, then with
surprise and discomfort.

‘James—how absurd!’

He laughed.

‘It is rather, isn’t it? “Everything to Henrietta Cray, the White
Cottage, Melling.” My mother had the life-rent of what my father left,
and a power of disposal, so at the time I made this will I was leaving
you some school prizes, a valued collection of football groups, and my
not very extensive wardrobe. The comic thing is that I have never made
another will, so if young Carr were to murder me tonight, you would come
in for quite a tidy fortune.’

She said quietly, ‘I don’t like that kind of talk. Any how, here it
goes——’

The paper dropped from her hand on to the piled ash, but before it had
time to catch James Lessiter snatched it back.

‘No, you don’t, my dear! That’s my property. Don’t you know it’s a
criminal offence to destroy a will? I don’t know how many years penal
servitude it lets you in for. You might ask Holderness next time you see
him.’

She said in a tone of dislike,

‘James, it’s ridiculous. Please burn it.’

He stood there half laughing with the paper in his hand held up high as
if they were boy and girl again and she might catch at it. In a moment
his expression changed. He reached across the table and put the will
down on the blotting-pad. Then he turned back to her and said soberly,

‘I don’t know anyone I’d rather leave it to, Rietta.’

‘That’s nonsense.’

‘Is it? I don’t think so. I’ve no relations except a distant cousin or
two about the same degree as Catherine—and you. They don’t interest me.
I shan’t marry—I have no qualifications for the domestic hearth, and no
desire to found that tiresome thing a family.’ His tone lightened again.
‘What would you do if it came to you? It’s quite a packet.’

She stood up straight and frowning.

‘I don’t want to talk about it. Please put that paper on the fire.’

He burst out laughing.

‘You don’t get much fun out of life, do you? Relax and discuss a
hypothetical case with me—a purely hypothetical case, because I assure
you that I mean to live to be a hundred, and a conscience like yours
will nag you into your grave long before that. But it would interest me
very much to know just how you would react to—well, to coming into a
packet.’

They had to talk about something. She wanted to be reasonably sure that
Carr was only walking off his passion. She allowed herself to relax, and
said,

‘That would depend——’

‘How truly cautious! It would depend on what I mean by a packet? Well,
let us say enough to run this place on quite a lavish scale. Would you
want to live here?’

She laughed frankly.

‘I should hate it. I like my cottage.’

‘No urge to go elsewhere and make a splash?’

‘My dear James!’

He was leaning back against the table again, his eyes bright, his lips
smiling.

‘Then what would you do with it? You’ve got to do something—in my
hypothetical case.’

She said in a considering voice,

‘There are such a lot of people who haven’t any homes. Nobody wants
them. They drift into cheap bed-sitting rooms and shrivel up. I thought
some of the big country houses might be run on communal lines—a lot of
comfortable bed-sitting rooms, and the big public rooms for meals and
recreation——’

He nodded, and then laughed.

‘A hennery! I don’t envy you the running of it. Just think how they’d
scratch each other’s eyes out!’

‘Why should they? And I wouldn’t only have women. Men want homes even
more—they can’t make them for themselves.’ She held out her hand. ‘And
now, James, please burn that paper.’

He shook his head, smiling.

‘It’s _my_ will, and none of your business. If I’d ever cared enough,
I’d have made another years ago. I just haven’t bothered. But if I did
bother, I’ve an idea that I should do the same thing all over again.’

He got a very direct look.

‘Why?’

‘I’ll tell you. Stand by to receive a bouquet. There was love’s young
dream, as I said—and, believe it or not, I never managed to repeat it.
I’ve made love to quite a number of charming women, and I’ve enjoyed
myself, but if I may say so, the contacts were—on a different plane.
The idyllic note was—well, lacking. The other ladies bore no
resemblance whatever to Pallas Athene. Without any desire to return to
the uncomfortable period of youth, it has in retrospect a certain charm.
You, as it were, personify that charm.’

‘You know perfectly well I’ve never had an atom of charm.’

‘_Ars est celare artem._ Do you know, when you said that you made me
feel like a boy again.’

She laughed.

‘You used to tell me I was as blunt as a poker. I am still. I never did
have any tact, so you must just take me the way I am. There’s something
I want to say to you. It’s about Catherine.’

Outside upon the steps, leaning against the glass door, Catherine Welby
heard her own name. At the top of the window above her head there was
one of the old star-shaped ventilators dating from the discovery round
about 1880 that fresh air was not necessarily lethal. The ventilator was
open, the voices of the two people in the study were vigorous and
resonant. She had heard a good deal. She now heard James Lessiter say,

‘What about Catherine?’

Rietta took a step forward.

‘James—don’t harry her.’

‘My dear girl, she’s a thief.’

Catherine was wrapped in a long black cloak. It was very warm, because
it was lined with fur. Mildred Lessiter had given it to her long ago.
The fur was still good and warm. Inside it her body shrank with cold.

‘She’s a thief.’

‘You’ve no right to say that!’

‘I think I have. Here’s my mother’s memorandum—you can read it if you
like. She’s put everything down on it. Catherine was lying when she said
the things were given to her. If she can’t or won’t produce them, I
shall prosecute.’

‘You can’t do that!’

‘I can, and will.’

‘Why?’

‘Because she’s a thief.’

Rietta shook her head.

‘It isn’t that. You’ve got something against her. What is it?’

‘You don’t need me to tell you that. She broke our engagement—lied
about me to you—’

‘James, they weren’t lies.’

‘She lied about both of us to my mother.’

She came up quite close to him and stood there at the side of the table,
her right hand resting on it.

‘James, those were not the things which broke our engagement. I broke
it—when you killed your dog.’

A dark flush of anger had come up into his face. His jesting manner had
gone.

‘Did you expect me to keep a brute that had turned on me?’

‘You frightened him and he snapped. You killed him—cruelly.’

‘I suppose Catherine told you that.’

‘No, it was one of the gardeners—he saw it. Catherine didn’t know. I’ve
never told anyone.’

He said moodily, ‘What a fuss about a dog.’ Then, with a resumption of
his earlier manner, ‘I told you I paid my scores. I think I’m going to
enjoy settling with Catherine.’

‘James—_please_—’

As she met his look she knew just how useless it was. He laughed
lightly.

‘It’s going to give me a good deal of pleasure to see Catherine in the
dock.’

The words hit her like a blow. He had stirred the past, played on her
feelings, even for a moment reached out to touch her with the old charm.
And now this. If he had actually struck her in the face, it would have
been no more of a stinging shock. Rietta’s anger broke. Afterwards she
couldn’t remember what she said. The words sprang up out of her anger
and she flung them at him. If she had had anything in her hand she might
have flung that too.

And then suddenly she was afraid of her own anger. It came up out of the
past, and she was afraid of it. She said in a choked voice,

‘I’ll go.’

When she had said that, Catherine drew back from the glass. She stepped
down into the bushes out of which she had come. She saw the curtains
pulled back and the door wrenched open. Rietta Cray ran down the steps
bareheaded in her red dress.




                                THIRTEEN


She opened her own door and went in. All the way back she had met no
one, heard nothing. Her anger was so hot in her that she did not miss
the coat, lying where she had dropped it in the study at Melling House.
She did not remember it or think of it at all. She thought about Carr,
she thought about Catherine, she thought about her own quick anger and
was aghast.

She opened the door of the living-room and went in. Fancy looked up,
yawning.

‘You’ve missed the nine o’clock news.’

Instinctively Rietta glanced at the clock, an old round wall-clock
hanging on the chimney breast. It was twenty past nine. A dance band was
swinging the latest song hit. She put out her hand and switched it off.

‘Has Carr come back?’

Fancy yawned again. She really had lovely teeth, as white as milk and as
even as peas in a pod.

‘No, he hasn’t. What’s the matter with him, Miss Cray?’

Rietta came and stood over her, tall and frowning.

‘I want you to tell me what happened—when I was out of the room.’

The large blue eyes blinked up at her. There was an obvious attempt to
control another yawn. Rietta thought with exasperation that the creature
looked exactly like a sleepy child. You couldn’t blame her for it, but
it wasn’t a situation in which a child was going to be much use. She
said,

‘I want you to tell me just what happened whilst I was at the
telephone.’

‘Well—’ The eyes remained wide and a little unfocussed. ‘I don’t know
that anything happened—much. Not till the end.’

‘What happened then?’

‘Well, we were looking at those papers—the ones Mr. Ainger brought—and
I’d seen a hat I liked, and I was thinking about how I could copy it, so
I wasn’t taking a lot of notice—you don’t when you’re thinking about
something special. And all at once there was Carr, calling out. I
thought he must have been stung or something. He looked awful, Miss
Cray, he really did. And he said, “The damned swine!” and I said,
“Where?” because I didn’t know what he meant—I don’t see how I could.
And then you came in, and he said that piece about its being the man who
took Marjory away—in the picture he was looking at—and he asked you if
it was James Lessiter. Marjory was his wife, wasn’t she? I mean, she was
Carr’s wife, and that James Lessiter went off with her. Carr won’t do
anything silly, will he?’

Rietta said, ‘No,’ in a deep, determined voice. It seemed to surprise
Fancy a little. She blinked.

‘Well, you can’t pick up spilt milk again, can you?’ Rietta said, ‘No.’

Fancy yawned.

‘By what I’ve heard she wasn’t much loss, was she?’ Then she blinked
again. ‘Perhaps I oughtn’t to have said that. You weren’t fond of her,
were you?’

‘No, I wasn’t fond of her.’

‘By all accounts nobody was. I expect Carr got a bit of a jolt with her.
He’s kind of—nice, isn’t he? When I told Mum about him she said she
reckoned he’d had his feelings pretty badly hurt. She told me to look
out and be careful. “Have him if you want to, Ducks, or don’t have him
if you don’t want to, but don’t play him up.” That’s what Mum said.’

‘And which are you going to do?’

At any other time there might have been sarcasm in the question. At this
moment Rietta put it with complete simplicity, and with equal simplicity
Fancy answered her.

‘He doesn’t want me. He said we wouldn’t fit in. I think he likes that
girl where he took me to tea—that Elizabeth Moore. He was fond of her,
wasn’t he?’

‘A long time ago.’

‘Why didn’t he marry her?’

‘He met Marjory.’

Fancy nodded.

‘She was the sort who’d snatch. I only really met her once, but you
could see how she was. Oh, Miss Cray, whatever have you done to your
hand? It’s all over blood!’

Rietta glanced down at her right hand. It was astonishing how much blood
had come from that small scratch. Up at Melling House she had wrapped
James Lessiter’s handkerchief about it. It must have dropped whilst they
were talking, and the bleeding had started again. It was dry now, but
what a mess. She went down the passage to the lavatory and held it under
the cold tap until the stain was gone.




                                FOURTEEN


Elizabeth Moore sat with a book on her
lap, but she wasn’t reading. She had turned off
the wireless after listening to the headlines of the
nine o’clock news. Her mind refused to leap the
Atlantic, the Channel, traverse the wastes of
Europe and Asia, and concern itself with the
follies which men were perpetrating hundreds
of thousands of miles away. There are moments
when the world contracts to what is happening to
one person. Elizabeth’s world had so contracted.
There was only one person in it—Carr. She
herself was present only as a striving against
pain. Fancy hovered vaguely as a threat. But Carr
wandered alone in that small, empty world. He
was in torment, and she couldn’t go to him, or
touch him, or help him. A line came to her from
her schooldays:
    ‘Yes, in the sea of life enisled
    We mortal millions dwell apart.’
And it was true. When it came down to brass tacks
you had to work things out for yourself. Another
line came to her, from the Bible this time, full of a
haunting melancholy beauty: ‘No man can save his
brother, nor make agreement unto God for him,
for it cost more than that to redeem their souls, so
that he must let it alone for ever.’

It was on this that she stretched out her hand to the bookcase without
even looking to see what book it was that she had taken. It lay open
upon her lap, and it was just white paper and black print, as dead to
her as if the script had been Phœnician.

She did not know whether the time was long or short before she heard the
tapping on the window. The room was at the back of the house. She lifted
the curtain and saw only the black night pressing up against the glass
like another curtain. Then in the dark something moved. A hand came up
to knock again. Carr said her name.

It was a casement window with a low sill. She threw it wide, and he came
in and pulled it to behind him. She let the curtain fall into its place,
and saw his ghastly look, his shaking hands. They caught at her and held
her, weighing her down until she came to a chair and dropped upon it.
Then he was on his knees, his head against her, his whole body shaken.
It was as if they had stumbled through the everyday crust into a dream
where the most fantastic things are as natural as the drawing of one’s
breath. She put her arms round him and held him until the shuddering
died down and he was still, his head against her breast, her arms
holding him. She knew that she had said his name, and that he had
repeated hers over and over like a cry for help. If there had been other
words, she did not know. They were in her thought, they beat with her
blood, but she did not know if they passed her lips, or whether they
reached him without sound on a pure tide of comfort and love.

‘What is it, my darling?’

She heard herself say that, and felt him shudder.

‘Don’t let me go.’

‘Carr—what is it?’

He told her then, lifting his head and speaking just above a whisper, as
if the breath had gone out of him and he had to struggle for it.

‘That man—I told you about—the one who took Marjory away—and left
her—I saw his photograph in—a paper. It’s James Lessiter—’

She said with a gasp, ‘Carr, what have you done?’

‘I haven’t—I thought I should if I stayed.’

The fear which had touched her was still cold at her heart.

‘What happened?’

‘Henry Ainger came in—he brought some papers for Rietta. Afterwards
Fancy and I were looking at them—Rietta had gone to the telephone. I
saw that man’s picture with his name under it—James Lessiter. I told
you Marjory had kept his photograph—it was the same one. Rietta came
in. I asked her, “Is this James Lessiter?” After that I don’t quite know
what happened. She said “Yes”, and I went out of the house. I wanted to
get my hands on him—I knew I’d kill him if I did. I’ve been walking—I
don’t know how long—’

She looked across his shoulder to the grandfather clock with its slow,
solemn tick.

‘It’s getting on for half-past nine.’

‘I can’t have taken an hour to get here—I suppose I did—I think I
started out the other way—then I thought about you. It’s all I did
think about after that—to get to you. I’ve made a damned fool of
myself—’

‘It doesn’t matter.’

It came to him that what she had just said was the underlying fact in
their relationship. It didn’t matter what he did or said, or what anyone
else did or said, whether he went away and forgot or came back and
remembered, wet or shine, day or night, year in, year out, the bond
between them held. He couldn’t put it into words. He could only say,
‘No, it doesn’t matter’, and lay his head against her shoulder again.

The passion of the last hour had gone out of him. It already seemed
remote and far away. There was a renewing. They stayed like that without
any sense of time.

At last she said, ‘They won’t know where you are—they’ll be worried
about you.’

Elizabeth’s world had come back to the normal again. It held other
people—Rietta Cray, who must be terribly worried, and Jonathan Moore,
who would be coming home after an evening’s chess with Dr. Craddock. She
got up and began to make tea, fetching the kettle from the kitchen,
moving about the small domestic tasks as if they were the whole of love
and service. It was perhaps the happiest hour that she had ever known.
To receive back all that you have lost, all that you have not even hoped
for, to be allowed to give again what you have kept unspent, is joy
beyond words. She had not many words.

Carr was silent too. He had travelled a long way—not the two and a half
miles from Melling, but the five years through which he had come to
reach this place again. When she said, ‘You must go’, he put his arms
round her and said her name.

‘Elizabeth—’

‘Carr—’

‘Elizabeth—are you going to take me back?’

‘Do you want me to?’

‘You know.’

There was a little pause before she said,

‘Can you—come back?’

‘Do you mean—about Fancy?’

‘You said you didn’t know whether you were engaged to her.’

He gave a shaky laugh.

‘That was just talking. We had it out on the way home. She’s a nice kid
really—quite sensible and matter-of-fact. “No offence meant, and none
taken”, as her estimable Mum would say, so that’s all right. I’ve come
back like a bad shilling. Are you going to have me?’

Elizabeth said, ‘I can’t help it.’




                                FIFTEEN


He took a sober pace back to Melling. The feeling of fighting time and
space was gone. His mind was anchored and safe. Everything on the far
side of the storm that had swept him seemed a little unreal, like a
dream when you have waked up with the daylight around you. It might have
happened a long time ago to someone else. He had Elizabeth again. It
seemed the most amazing thing that he could have let her go. He began to
plan their life together as he walked.

He came out on to the edge of the Green and saw it like a soft dark
smudge under the night sky. There was neither moon nor star, but after
the lane with its high banks and tangled hedgerows it seemed by
comparison light. He could see the row of cottages away on the far side,
and the black, crouched outline of the church. He kept the left-hand
path and came up with the Gate House. Light shone through the curtains.
Catherine was still up.

Such a little thing can decide so much. If Catherine Welby had gone to
bed a little earlier, a lot of things would have been different. The
light shining through her pale brocade curtains broke Carr’s train of
thought and started another. If Catherine was up, other people would be
up. In a flash ‘other people’ became James Lessiter. He could hear
Rietta saying, ‘Mrs. Lessiter never destroyed anything. He’ll have a
mass of papers to go through.’

James Lessiter would be up. He could get the whole sordid business
between them finished and start fresh. He wasn’t afraid of himself any
longer. He could walk in, tell the swine what he thought of him, and
walk out again. It was fixed in his mind that he must do that before the
whole unhappy business of his marriage could be put away. It had robbed
him of every illusion, every happiness. But Marjory was dead. He had to
close her account with James Lessiter. As to touching him, he would as
soon touch carrion. He turned in between the tall pillars and went up
the drive.

The wall-clock at the White Cottage struck its soft note. Rietta Cray
looked up incredulously. That it should be no more than a quarter to
eleven seemed to give the whole lie to time. It was an hour since Fancy
had gone up to bed, a quarter over two since Carr had flung out of the
house. On any ordinary evening the time would have gone too fast. She
worked hard all day, but once the supper things were washed up she could
step aside out of this hard post-war world and become a leisured woman,
with a concert, a play, waiting for her at the turn of a switch, or a
book to take her here and there in time, or anywhere in space. But this
evening there were none of these things. No enchantment has power on the
racked mind. She did not know when so heavy a fear had weighed her down.
It was past all reason, but she could do nothing to lift it. She told
herself that she would laugh at it to-morrow, and to-morrow seemed very
far away.

The house was dreadfully still. She missed the old dog who had died a
month before, friend and companion of fifteen years. She would have to
get a puppy, but she had put off for the old dog’s sake. It was too
quiet here alone at night.

Then into the quiet there came footsteps—not in front from the path
skirting the Green, but from the back, coming up the garden. Like
Catherine’s, the room ran through the house, windows at either end. She
heard the click of the garden gate, she heard the steps come right up to
the back door and come in. She would have locked the door before she
went to bed, but she hadn’t locked it yet. While she was up and about it
would never have occurred to her to lock her door.

But the footsteps frightened her now. They had come down through the
wood, as she herself had come an hour and a half ago. They had come down
from Melling House. They were in the passage now, and the door opened.
Carr came in and shut it behind him. He leaned against it and said.

‘He’s dead.’

Rietta stood looking at him. His face was pale and stern—dreadfully
pale, dreadfully stern. There was no wildness in his eyes. They looked
at her, and she looked back, whilst everything in her froze. When she
said nothing, Carr raised his voice to her as if she were deaf. He said,

‘Do you hear—James Lessiter is dead.’

She said ‘No!’—not because she didn’t believe him, but because she did.
It was the last hopeless protest against something too dreadful to be
accepted.

His next words cut across the numb surface of her mind like a knife.

‘Why did you do it?’

‘Carr!’

He left the door and came forward. She saw then that he had the raincoat
bundled up on his arm. It was the first moment that she had thought
about it since she had dropped it across a chair in the study at Melling
House. She thought of it now, and remembered that she had left it there.

Carr thrust it at her.

‘What sort of a fool do you think you are to leave it there with his
blood on it?’

Rietta lifted her head. It was like a nightmare—nothing made sense. But
the numbness was going.

‘It’s my own blood. I scratched my wrist going up through the wood.’ She
turned it for him to see—a scarlet line like a hair, already healing.

Carr gave an angry laugh,

‘Don’t be a fool, Rietta—not with me! We’ve got to think.’

‘I scratched myself—’

He shook out the coat, held up the right sleeve, and heard her gasp. The
cuff was drenched and soaked. The red, wet stain ran up almost to the
elbow, the breadth below it was splashed and streaked.

‘You scratched your wrist—Oh, my God, talk sense!’

There was a moment when the room shook under her feet and the red stains
spread in a milky mist. Then she had hold of herself again and her sight
cleared.

‘Carr, look at me!’

He was looking.

‘And listen! I don’t know anything about this. After you went out I was
afraid of what you might do. You’d had a shock. I—well, I was afraid. I
took the first coat I touched and ran up the back way to Melling House.
When I got there the room was hot—I dropped the coat on a chair and
never thought of it again. I talked to James—in the end we quarrelled.
No, it wasn’t exactly a quarrel. He said something I resented very much,
and I walked out. I never thought about the coat.’

He was holding up the sleeve.

‘That’s his blood.’

She said, ‘I did scratch my wrist—it bled. He lent me his
handkerchief—I must have dropped that too.’

‘What’s the good of telling me all this came from a scratch on your
wrist?’

‘I don’t tell you that—it didn’t. But I did catch my wrist on something
in the wood. It bled quite a lot for such a little scratch.’ A shudder
went over her. ‘Not like that!’ She paused for a moment, drawing hard
upon her self-control. Then she came up to him. ‘Carr, put that dreadful
thing down and tell me what’s happened. We’re talking in the dark. And
for God’s sake tell me the truth, because nothing else is going to be
the slightest bit of use.’

He let the coat fall down in a heap on the floor. It lay there with a
broken look. But Rietta had no eyes for it. They were fixed on Carr’s
hard, dark face. He said,

‘Very well, I’ll tell you. When I went out of here I didn’t know what I
was doing. I walked myself pretty well off my legs, because if I hadn’t
I was going to go up to Melling House and smash James Lessiter. I must
have walked for an hour, and I fetched up at Jonathan Moore’s. Elizabeth
was there by herself. I stayed there until I’d got hold of myself.
We’—his face changed—‘she’s taken me back. When I came away I didn’t
want to kill him any more—I just wanted to be quit of the whole thing.
That’s the truth, Rietta. When I got back to the Gate House Catherine’s
light was on. I thought, then it wasn’t so late—Lessiter would be up—I
could get quit of it all and start fresh. I wasn’t going to touch him. I
was going to let him know that I knew, and I was going to tell him what
I thought of him. Stupid of me, I expect, but that’s how I saw it. I
went up to the house, and the front was all dark. I thought if he was up
he’d be in the study, so I went round to the glass door, and found it
ajar.’

Rietta took her breath quickly.

‘I can’t remember—I can’t remember whether I shut it. I don’t suppose I
did—I was too angry—’

He gave a sort of half laugh.

‘Angry! I shouldn’t say too much about that!’

‘It was about Catherine—it doesn’t matter. Carr, go on.’

‘I opened the door and went in. The curtains were drawn behind it. The
overhead light was on. He was lying slumped forward over the table with
his head smashed in.’

‘Carr!’

He nodded.

‘It wasn’t pretty. It looked as if he had been sitting in his chair and
been hit from behind. The poker was lying on the hearthrug. There wasn’t
any doubt about what he’d been hit with.’

She said, ‘Horrible!’

‘Not nice to look at. Probably instantaneous. You’re not expecting me to
be sorry for him, are you? If we’re not careful we may have to be
uncommon sorry for ourselves.’

‘Go on.’

‘I had that cheering thought in the first five seconds. When I saw the
raincoat it got a lot stronger. It was turned over, so a bit of the
lining showed, and I thought I’d seen the stripe before. I went and had
a look and found my initials on the neckband. After that I wiped the
handle of the poker with a bloodstained handkerchief which seemed to
have dropped on the hearth.’

She shuddered.

‘He lent it to me for my wrist. You shouldn’t have wiped the handle.’

He stared at her accusingly.

‘Why shouldn’t I have wiped it? If my raincoat was there, someone
brought it, didn’t they? It wasn’t I. And that left you.’

‘Carr!’

‘It’s no use saying “Carr!” If you’d had a row and hit him, it would be
a hundred to one you’d rush off and never think about fingerprints. But
if it was someone else, and someone clever enough to make use of my
raincoat, then it was a hundred to one he’d have dealt with the handle
of the poker already—anyhow that’s what I thought at the time. I wiped
the handle, and I put the handkerchief on the fire, which was
practically choked with ash. I don’t know if it’ll burn or not—it
doesn’t really matter. Then I wiped the edge of the door with my own
handkerchief, got the raincoat, and came away.’

She took another of those quick breaths.

‘You ought to have rung up the police.’

He said, ‘I may be a fool, but I’m not a damned fool.’ Then he picked up
the raincoat. ‘We’ve got to get the blood off this. What’s the best
way?’

‘Cold water ... Carr, I don’t like it. We ought to send for the
police—we haven’t done anything wrong.’

He touched her for the first time, taking her shoulder in a bruising
grip.

‘You’ve got a good headpiece—use it! On the evidence, do you think you
could find a dozen people who would believe I didn’t do it?’

‘_You?_’

‘Or you.’

A dazed feeling came over her. She put up her hand to her head.

‘A dozen people—’

He turned to the door.

‘There are twelve people on a jury, Rietta.’




                                SIXTEEN


Mr. Stokes started his milk round at seven in the morning. He reached
Melling House at twenty past, and found what he afterwards described as
a very horrid state of things. The back door stood open. Nothing unusual
about that. All in the day’s work that he should take the milk through
to the kitchen and say ‘I don’t mind if I do’ when Mrs. Mayhew offered
him a cup of tea. But this morning there wasn’t any tea—only Mrs.
Mayhew sitting up straight in a kitchen chair with her hands gripping
the seat on either side. Looked as if she was afraid she’d fall off if
she was to let go. She sat up straight, and looked at Mr. Stokes, but he
wouldn’t like to say she saw him—face all white like wet curds, and her
eyes set in her head. Mr. Stokes didn’t know when he’d had such a turn.

‘Why, Mrs. Mayhew—what’s up?’ he said, and didn’t get a word or
anything except that stare. He put down the milk on the dresser and
looked round for Mayhew, because for certain sure there was something
wrong, and he couldn’t go away and leave her like that.

He went across the kitchen to the door on the far side and opened it.
There was a darkish bit of passage, and the door of the butler’s pantry
standing wide. He could see Mayhew’s shoulder and right arm, and his
hand holding the telephone receiver. The hand shook, the arm and
shoulder shook. When his head came into the picture it shook too—not as
if Mayhew was shaking it, but as if the whole of him was quivering like
one of his wife’s jellies. His teeth chattered. Mr. Stokes was of the
opinion that nobody couldn’t make head nor tail of what he was trying to
say. He was probably right, because it became obvious that he was being
adjured to speak up, and to speak distinctly. He said, ‘I’ll try,’ and
shook all over again and said, ‘It’s the shock—I found him—he’s a
dreadful sight—oh dear!’

Mr. Stokes had a well founded local reputation as a nosey parker. He
could contain himself no longer. It was obvious to the meanest
intelligence that Something had Happened. Mr. Stokes did not think at
all meanly of his intelligence. It immediately suggested that the
Something, if not Murder, was at the very least of it Sudden Death. In a
friendly and sociable manner he came up to the shaking Mr. Mayhew and
laid an arm across his shoulders.

‘What’s up, chum? Who are you talking to—the police? Here, have a drink
of water and see what that’ll do.’

Having filled a cup at the tap, he removed the receiver from Mr.
Mayhew’s nerveless hand, pressed it to his own ear, and stooped to the
mouthpiece.

‘’Ullo! This is Stokes speaking—milk roundsman. Are you police?’

The sort of voice which suggests a large policeman said it was. It also
asked what Mr. Stokes was doing on the line.

‘Just happened to come in with the milk, and seeing Mr. Mayhew wasn’t in
any shape for what you might call making a statement, I’ve given him a
drink of water and told him I’ll hold the line. Lenton police station,
is it?’

The voice said it was. It also said it wanted Mayhew back on the line.

‘Easy does it,’ said Mr. Stokes. ‘Bit of dirty work been going on, if
you ask me—Mrs. Mayhew next door to a faint in the kitchen, and this
pore chap looking as if someone had got him up to be shot at dawn. He’s
spilling half the water I give him instead of getting it down. Here hold
on a jiff and I’ll see if I can get out of him what it’s all about.’

Constable Whitcombe waited impatiently. A number of disconnected and
extremely irritating sounds reached him. There was some gasping, some
choking, and superimposed on these, an impression of Mr. Stokes
administering a mixture of soothing syrup and encouragement. Then, very
distinct and sharp, Mr. Stokes saying, ‘Gosh!’ and then a pause which
went on for so long that Constable Whitcombe flashed the exchange and
wanted to know why he had been cut off. Exchange said he hadn’t, and was
rather crisp about it. After that there were one or two gasps, and then
the sound of running feet. Mr. Stokes was back on the line, his voice
risen in key and all detachment gone.

‘It’s Mr. Lessiter,’ he said, ‘murdered—in his own study! Bin hit over
the head with the poker something crool! That’s what Mr. Mayhew was
trying to tell you, only he couldn’t get it out, and no wonder. It fair
turned me up! I’ve just been along to have a look ... No, of course I
haven’t touched anything! What d’you take me for? Children five year old
know enough not to disturb nothing on the scene of the crime ... No, I
didn’t touch the door, and didn’t need to. Standing wide open it was,
the way Mr. Mayhew left it after he looked in and seen the horrid sight.
Couldn’t get back to his pantry fast enough, and I don’t blame him. And
if you ask me, the sooner you get someone out here the better ... All
right, all right, all right, I didn’t say you did! No need to take me up
like that—I’m only trying to be helpful.’

Everyone got their milk very late that morning. There was not only the
delay caused by the interlude at Melling House, but it was obviously
impossible for Mr. Stokes to call anywhere else without making the most
of the dramatic fact that he had practically been on the spot when the
murder was discovered. By the time he reached Mrs. Voycey’s on the other
side of the Green he was not only word-perfect, but he was also in a
position to retail some first-hand observations on the manner in which
the news had been received.

‘Mrs. Welby, she put her head out of the window to ask for another half
pint, and when I told her, she must have sat down sudden, because there
she was one minute and there she wasn’t the next, so I thought maybe
she’d gone off in a faint with the shock. I called up to the window and
asked if she was all right, and she looks out again as white as death
and says, “Are you sure?” And when I told her I seen him with my own
eyes she says, “Oh, my God—what a horrible thing!” ’

Variants of this remark seem to have been made at every house. To his
own regret, and to that of all his listeners, he had no knowledge of how
the White Cottage had reacted, since he had most unfortunately delivered
the milk at Miss Rietta Cray’s before going up to Melling House.

Cecilia Voycey’s stout, elderly housekeeper listened with the same
amiable interest which she had accorded during the past year to the
birth of twins in the Stokes family and the decease of an uncle of Mrs.
Stokes who had married for the fourth time in his eighty-ninth year and
left his house and a nice little sum in the bank to the designing widow.
‘Yellow hair, and makes out she’s under thirty!’ had been Mr. Stokes’
embittered conclusion. Upon all these items of news Mrs. Crooks had had
the same comment to make—a slow ‘Fancy that!’ followed by ‘Who’d ha’
thought it!’ The murder of James Lessiter provoked her to no higher
flights, but having absorbed all that Mr. Stokes could tell her and shut
the back door after him, she went through into the dining-room where
Mrs. Voycey and Miss Silver were partaking of breakfast. With slow and
lumbering accuracy she repeated her garnered news.

‘Mr. Stokes, he waited till the police came. He don’t know if there’s
anything missing, but the grate was fair choked with burned paper, and
the poor gentleman sitting there with his head smashed in, and the poker
on the hearthrug. Mr. Stokes was able to leave us two pints this
morning, but he doesn’t know if he’ll be able to keep it up.’

Miss Silver said, ‘Dear me!’

Mrs. Voycey waved away the milk.

‘Good gracious, Bessie—don’t talk about food! Have the police got any
clue?’

‘Not that they told Mr. Stokes. There was a Constable, and an Inspector,
and a Superintendent, taking photographs and finger-prints and all sorts
when he come away. He did say it looked like someone had tried to burn
the poor gentleman’s will. All scorched down one side it was.’

‘His will!’ exclaimed Mrs. Voycey in what was almost a scream.

Mrs. Crooks gazed at her in a ruminative manner and said placidly,

‘They do say that everything was left to Miss Rietta Cray.’




                               SEVENTEEN


Superintendent Drake of the County Police sat in one of the
tapestry-covered armchairs in the housekeeper’s room at Melling House.
Mrs. Mayhew sat in the other. Constable Whitcombe had made her a cup of
tea, and Mayhew had laced it with whisky out of the case which James
Lessiter had brought down with him. If she had been capable of coherent
thought on any but the one dreadful subject she would have been very
much shocked at the idea of taking spirits so early in the morning. She
had come out of that deathlike rigor. The whisky had got into her head
and confused it. It had also loosened her tongue. But there was one
thing she wasn’t ever going to say, not if they burnt her at the stake.
The improbability of this form of persuasion did not present itself.
Nobody wasn’t going to hear from her about Cyril coming over from Lenton
on the bike he borrowed from Ernie White. If it wasn’t for no other
reason, whatever was Fred going to say? Fred didn’t know, and he wasn’t
going to know. What was the use of saying he’d done with Cyril and he
wouldn’t have him coming about the place? You can’t be done with your
own flesh and blood, any more than you can cut off your hand and say
you’ll do without it. She’d got to manage so that Fred didn’t know about
Cyril coming down and—all the rest of it.

The terror began to come over her again. He mustn’t know—the police
mustn’t know—nobody mustn’t know—not _ever_.

She sat in the tapestry chair, not leaning back against the comfortable
patchwork cushion which had been a legacy from her aunt Ellen Blacklock,
but sitting straight up in her blue overall, which was very clean and a
little faded, her hands clasping one another tightly, her eyes fixed
upon the Superintendent’s face. He hadn’t been very long in Lenton, and
she hadn’t seen him before. If she had passed him in the street she
wouldn’t have thought about him one way or another except for his having
red hair, which was a thing she didn’t care about. Red hair and red
eyelashes, they gave a man a kind of a foxy look. They’d never had them
in their family, but of course it wasn’t her business what other people
had—she wasn’t one for meddling with other people’s affairs like some.
It wasn’t anything to her whether Superintendent Drake was fair or dark
or foxy. Only no matter what he looked like, he was the police, and
she’d got to keep him from knowing about Cyril. The terror in her took
hold of her body and shook it.

The Superintendent said, ‘Now, Mrs. Mayhew, there’s no need for you to
be nervous. You’ve had a shock, and I’m sorry to trouble you, but I
needn’t keep you long. I just want you to tell me what time you got home
last night. It was your half day off, wasn’t it?’

‘Yes, sir.’ She was looking at him, but without shifting her gaze she
could see that the young man sitting up to the table had written that
down. They would write everything down.

It didn’t matter what they wrote just so long as she didn’t say a word
about Cyril.

The Superintendent was speaking again.

‘And on your half day, what do you generally do?’

‘We go into Lenton.’

‘Every week?’

‘Yes.’

‘What do you do when you get there?’

The dreadful grip of the terror had relaxed. He wasn’t asking her
anything about Cyril—only what they’d done week in, week out for more
years than she could count, when they had their day off.

‘We do a bit of shopping, and then we go round to tea with Mr. Mayhew’s
sister, Mrs. White.’

‘Yes—your husband gave us the address.’

Ernie—Ernie and the bicycle—she didn’t ought to have mentioned Emmy
White. But it wasn’t her—it was Fred, and Fred had given the address.
She stared at the Superintendent as a rabbit stares at a stoat.

‘And after tea, Mrs. Mayhew?’

‘We go to the pictures.’

‘You do that every week?’

‘Yes, sir.’

‘Well, it’s a great thing to have regular habits. I’m that way
myself—when I get the chance. Now, Mrs. Mayhew, why didn’t you go to
the pictures last night? Your husband says you came back by the early
bus. He kept to the regular programme, but you didn’t. Why was that?’

‘I came out by the six-forty bus.’

‘Yes—it reaches Melling at seven, doesn’t it? Why did you come back
early instead of going to the pictures with your husband?’

‘I’d a bit of a headache.’

‘Have you ever come back like that by yourself before?’

‘Mr. Lessiter was here——’

‘Yes?’

There wasn’t any answer. The Superintendent said,

‘You’d left him a cold supper, hadn’t you?’

‘Yes, sir.’

‘Then you didn’t come back on Mr. Lessiter’s account.’

She couldn’t turn any paler, but a sweat broke upon the skin.

‘My head was bad.’

‘I see. Now, will you just tell me what you did after you got back.’

Her hands clutched one another. She must tell him everything just like
it happened, only nothing about Cyril—nothing about going to the back
door and Cyril saying, ‘Well, I made it. Ernie lent me his bike. If I’d
come by the bus, every dog and cat in Melling ’ud know.’ She’d got to
leave out all the bits about Cyril and tell the truth about the rest.
She moistened her stiff lips.

‘I come in, and I made me a cup of tea——’

She mustn’t say nothing about giving Cyril his supper, and his saying
right in the middle of it, ‘I’ve _got_ to have some money, Mum. I’m in
trouble.’

The Superintendent’s voice made her jump.

‘Did you see Mr. Lessiter at all? You say you came home partly because
he was here. Did you go to the study and see if he wanted anything?’

He saw her wince, and thought, ‘She’s hiding something.’

Instinct prompted her, as it will prompt any terrified weak creature.
She said on a panting breath,

‘Oh, yes, sir.’

‘What time would that be?’

‘It was just before the news.’

‘Just before nine?’ He frowned.

‘That’s right.’

‘You were in before a quarter past seven, weren’t you?’

‘Yes, sir.’

‘But you didn’t go and see if Mr. Lessiter wanted anything until just
before nine.’

She said very faintly, ‘My head was bad—I had to sit for a bit—I
didn’t rightly know what I was doing.’

‘It’s a long time from a quarter past seven till nine o’clock.’

A long time—a terrible long time ... Cyril with his head in her
lap—crying ... She said in her weak voice,

‘I didn’t hardly know how it went. Then I made me some tea and went
along to the study.’

‘And you saw Mr. Lessiter?’

There was a little colour in Mrs. Mayhew’s cheeks, a flush born of
whisky and desperation. She said,

‘No sir—I didn’t see him.’

The eyes behind the foxy lashes bored into her like gimlets.

‘You went to the study, and you didn’t see him?’

Mrs. Mayhew nodded, sitting up straight and pinching her left hand with
her right till it felt quite bruised.

‘I went along to the study like I said, and I opened the door, but I
didn’t open it no more than a little.’

‘Yes?’

She caught her breath and said in a fluttering voice,

‘Miss Rietta Cray was there.’

‘Who is Miss Rietta Cray?’

‘Lives at the White Cottage—just to the left outside the gates.’

‘Go on.’

‘I didn’t mean to listen—I wouldn’t do anything like that—I just
wanted to know whether to go in. People don’t thank you if they’re
talking private.’

‘Were they?’

Mrs. Mayhew nodded with emphasis.

‘Mr. Lessiter was saying he didn’t particularly want to be murdered.’

Superintendent Drake said, ‘_What!_’

Mrs. Mayhew repeated her nod.

‘That’s what he said. And then he went on, “Funny you should come along
tonight, Rietta. I’ve been burning your letters.” That’s when I knew it
was Miss Cray he was talking to. And then he said something about love’s
young dream.’

‘Were they engaged?’

She nodded again.

‘A matter of twenty years ago—getting on for twenty-five. So I thought
I’d better not go in.’

‘Did you hear any more?’

She said, ‘I’m not one to listen!’

‘Of course you’re not. But you might have happened to hear something
before you shut the door. You did, didn’t you?’

‘Well, I did. There was a piece about his turning everything out,
looking for a memma-something-or-other his mother left him. I remember
that because it rhymed with Emma.’

‘Memorandum?’

‘That’s right.’

The terror in her was lulled. All this was easy, and no more than gospel
truth. She was all right so long as she told the truth and kept away
from Cyril. She had a picture in her mind of Cyril in the kitchen
fiddling with the knobs of the wireless, and herself a long way off at
the study door. Instinct told her to stay there and make as much of it
as she could—the same instinct which sets a bird to trail a wounded
wing and trick a cat away from its nest. She repeated the
Superintendent’s suggestion.

‘Memma-randum. Something his mother left for him, and when he was
looking for it he’d found Miss Rietta’s letters and—something else.’

‘What else?’

‘I couldn’t see—the door wasn’t open more than an inch. By what he
said, it was a will, sir. Seemed he was showing it to Miss Rietta. And
she said, “How absurd!” and Mr. Lessiter laughed and said it was rather.
And then he said, “Everything to Henrietta Cray, the White Cottage,
Melling.” ’

‘You definitely heard him say that to Miss Cray?’

‘Oh, yes, sir.’ Her look was unwavering and truthful.

‘Did you hear anything more?’

‘Yes, sir. I wouldn’t have stayed, but I was that taken aback. I heard
him say he’d never made another will. “So if young Carr was to murder me
tonight you’d come in for quite a tidy fortune.” That’s what he said,
and it give me the creeps all down my back—I don’t know what I felt
like. And I pulled the door to and come back to the kitchen.’

The Superintendent said, ‘H’m——’ and then, ‘Who is young Carr?’

‘Miss Rietta’s nephew, Mr. Carr Robertson.’

‘Why should he want to murder Mr. Lessiter? Do you know of any reason?’

‘No, sir, I don’t.’

‘You don’t know of any quarrel between them?’

‘No, sir——’ She hesitated.

‘Yes, Mrs. Mayhew?’

‘Mrs. Fallow—she helps here, and she goes to Miss Cray Saturdays—she
passed the remark only yesterday that it was funny Mr. Lessiter never
coming down here these twenty years and not knowing scarcely anyone in
the village, after being born and brought up here. And I said there
wasn’t hardly anyone would know him by sight, and she said, “That’s
right,” and she brought in Mr. Carr’s name. Seems she’d heard him say he
wouldn’t know Mr. Lessiter if he was to meet him—but I don’t know how
he come to say it.’

The Superintendent said ‘H’m——’ again. He may have suspected a red
herring. He brought Mrs. Mayhew firmly back to the events of the night
before.

‘You returned to the kitchen without hearing any more. That would be at
something after nine?’

‘Yes, sir—the news was on.’

Sweat broke on her temples. She didn’t ought to have said that, she
didn’t. Cyril fiddling with knobs—Cyril turning on the news——

‘You’d left the wireless running?’

The flush burned in her cheeks, her feet were like ice. She said,

‘Yes, sir—it’s company.’

‘Did you go back to the study again later?’

She nodded.

‘I thought I would.’

‘What time would that be?’

‘A quarter to ten. I thought Miss Rietta would be gone.’

‘Did you see Mr. Lessiter then?’

‘No——’ It was just a whisper, because it came over her that when she
opened the study door that second time Mr. Lessiter might have been
dead, and if she had opened it a little farther and gone in she might
have seen him lying there across the table with his head smashed.

It wasn’t Cyril—it wasn’t Cyril—it _wasn’t_ Cyril!

‘What did you do?’

‘I opened the door like I did before, quiet. There wasn’t anyone
talking. I thought, “Miss Rietta’s gone”, and I opened the door a little
farther. Then I see Miss Rietta’s coat lying across a chair.’

‘How did you know it was hers?’

‘There was a bit of the lining turned back—a kind of a plaid with a
yellow stripe. It’s Mr. Carr’s coat really—an old one he leaves at the
cottage. Miss Rietta will wear it if she feels that way.’

‘Go on.’

‘I shut the door and come away.’

‘Why did you do that?’

‘I thought Miss Rietta hadn’t gone. The room was all quiet. I
thought——’

It was plain enough what she had thought. Everyone in the village knew
that James Lessiter and Rietta Cray had been young lovers. Everyone
would have thought it quite right and proper if they had come together
again. The Superintendent decided that Mrs. Mayhew was speaking the
truth. He wondered if she had anything more to tell. She had an
uncertain look, her hands fidgeted in her lap. He said,

‘Well—what is it?’

Mrs. Mayhew moistened her lips.

‘It was the raincoat, sir—I couldn’t help but notice——’

‘What did you notice?’

‘The sleeve was hanging down so I couldn’t help but see it.’

‘What did you see?’

Mrs. Mayhew said in a trembling voice,

‘It was the cuff—it was all over blood—’




                                EIGHTEEN


Between eleven and twelve o’clock Superintendent Drake made his way to
the White Cottage. Miss Cray was at home. She received him in the
dining-room, very pale, very much under control. Sizing her up from
beneath his red eyelashes, he considered that she might have done it,
but if she had, he would have expected her to keep her head and not go
leaving her raincoat for anyone to see. If she _had_ left it. Perhaps
she hadn’t—perhaps she was still in the room when the housekeeper
opened the door the second time. Mrs. Mayhew said she had seen the coat
at a quarter to ten with blood on the sleeve, but it wasn’t there in the
morning when Mayhew discovered the body. It might have been removed at
any moment between those times. If Miss Cray was still in the room at a
quarter to ten she could have taken it when she left. If she had already
gone she could have come back for it later—she, or the nephew.

He had these things in his mind as he took the chair she offered him and
sat down. Constable Whitcombe sat down too, took out a notebook,
arranged himself for writing.

Drake watched her closely when he introduced James Lessiter’s name. Her
face did not change.

‘You have heard of Mr. Lessiter’s death?’

He got a quiet, rather deep-toned ‘Yes.’

‘When did you hear of it, Miss Cray—and how?’

‘Mrs. Welby came over. She had heard of it from the milkman.’

‘He hadn’t let you know?’

‘He calls here before he goes to Melling House.’

‘You were very much shocked and surprised?’

‘Yes.’

The dining-table was between them. His chair was turned sideways. He
shifted it now so as to face her more directly.

‘Miss Cray, can you give me an account of your movements last night?’

‘My movements?’

He was conscious of a slight feeling of satisfaction. When anyone
repeated what you had said, it meant just the one thing, whether it was
man or woman. It meant that they were rattled, and that they were
playing for time. He thought Miss Rietta Cray would do with a bit of
jolting. He proceeded to jolt her.

‘You have your nephew staying with you—Mr. Carr Robertson? And a friend
of his——?’

Rietta Cray supplied the name.

‘Frances Bell.’

‘I’d like to know what you were all doing last night.’

‘We were here.’

‘You didn’t leave the house—are you quite sure about that? Mrs. Mayhew
states that she heard Mr. Lessiter address you by name when she went to
the study door just before nine.’

The bright colour of anger came into her cheeks. Her grey eyes blazed.
Had the Superintendent been a student of the classics, he might have
been reminded of Virgil’s famous line about the ‘very goddess.’ Not
knowing it, he nevertheless received a general impression that Miss Cray
was a high-tempered lady and a surprisingly handsome one. And he thought
he had jolted her all right. But she fixed a steady gaze on him as she
said,

‘Mrs. Mayhew is perfectly right. I went up to see Mr. Lessiter between
half past eight and a quarter past nine.’

‘You were back here at a quarter past nine?’

‘Miss Bell will tell you so. She remarked when I came in that I had
missed the news.’

‘Miss Bell? What about Mr. Robertson?’

‘He wasn’t in the room.’

‘Was he in the house?’

‘No—he had gone for a walk.’

The Superintendent lifted his reddish eyebrows.

‘At that hour!’

Miss Cray replied, ‘Why not?’

He left it at that.

‘Miss Cray, I must ask you about this visit of yours to Melling House.
You are an old friend of Mr. Lessiter’s?’

‘I haven’t seen him for more than twenty years.’

‘You were engaged to him?’

‘More than twenty years ago.’

‘There was a breach—a quarrel?’

‘I wouldn’t call it that.’

‘Who broke off the engagement?’

‘I did.’

‘Why?’

‘I think that’s my business.’

The grey eyes were angry, scornful, and very fine. He didn’t know when
he had seen a finer pair of eyes. He thought a woman who could get so
much angry scorn into a look might very well do murder if she was put to
it. He said,

‘Miss Cray, were you aware that Mr. Lessiter had made a will in your
favour?’

‘He showed it to me last night. I told him it was absurd.’

‘He had been burning your letters, hadn’t he?’

‘If Mrs. Mayhew was listening at the door she will have told you that.’

‘He had been burning your letters, and then he showed you the will—it’s
dated twenty-four years ago. And he threw that on the fire too.’

She said, ‘No—it was I who put it on the fire.’

‘Oh, it was you?’

‘The whole thing was absurd—a will made during a boy-and-girl
engagement. I put it on the fire, but he took it off again. If Mrs.
Mayhew was listening she ought to be able to confirm that. I would like
you to understand that Mr. Lessiter was’—she hesitated, and then said,
‘amusing himself.’

‘You mean he wasn’t serious?’

‘Of course he wasn’t serious. He was teasing me. He saw that I was
vexed, and it amused him.’

‘You were vexed?’

‘I disliked the whole thing very much.’

He leaned towards her, an elbow on the table.

‘Was Mr. Lessiter amusing himself when he spoke of the possibility of
his being murdered by Mr. Carr Robertson?’

She could control her voice, but not her angry blood. She felt it burn
in her face as she said,

‘Of course!’

‘You mean that he was joking. But there must be some reason even for a
joke. Why should he make a joke like that?’

‘I can’t tell you.’

‘Mrs. Mayhew states that she heard him say at one time that he didn’t
particularly want to be murdered. And later on, after he had shown you
the will and read out from it, “Everything to Henrietta Cray, the White
Cottage, Melling”, she heard him say, “If young Carr was to murder me
tonight, you’d come in for quite a tidy fortune.” He did say that, Miss
Cray?’

‘Something like it. I’ve told you he wasn’t serious. People don’t say
that sort of thing seriously.’

‘There’s many a true word spoken in jest. Murder is serious, Miss Cray.
Mr. Lessiter was murdered last night. As far as we have any evidence,
you were the last person to see him alive. Why did you go and see him?’

She said with composure, ‘Why should I not?’

‘I was asking you why you did.’

‘Why does one do anything? I thought I would.’

‘It was a sudden impulse?’

‘You may call it that.’

‘Were you wearing a coat?’

‘Certainly.’

‘What kind of a coat?’

‘I took one that was hanging in the hall.’

‘Was it a coat belonging to your nephew?’

‘It may have been—I took the first one I touched.’

‘You were wearing it when you went?’

‘Naturally.’

‘And when you came back?’

Her colour rose again. She looked at him.

‘Superintendent Drake, what is all this about my coat? I wore it, and
it’s back on its hook in the hall.’

‘Then I should like to see it, Miss Cray.’

If she had kept a brave front, it covered a bitter cramping fear. She
had made up her mind to tell the truth as far as she could, and when she
got past that point to hold her tongue. There was more than one old coat
hanging up in the hall—she could say that she had worn one of the
others ... She couldn’t do it. If you have been brought up to tell the
truth, it is very difficult indeed to tell a lie, and next door to
impossible to make it convincing. Rietta Cray had a direct and simple
nature and a truthful tongue. She couldn’t do it. In a moment she was to
be glad of this, because Inspector Drake walked down the line of coats,
turning each one back so as to see the inner side. When he came to a
plaid lining with a yellow stripe, he stopped, unhooked the coat, and
turned back to the dining-room.

She followed him with a cold drag at her heart. If he had recognised
Carr’s raincoat, it was because someone at Melling House had seen it and
described it to him. Mrs. Mayhew had been listening at the door. If she
had opened it a little way she might have seen the coat. That wouldn’t
matter, because the Superintendent already knew that she had talked with
James Lessiter. But suppose Mrs. Mayhew had come back later and seen the
coat as it was when Carr brought it home—the sleeve soaked with blood,
the whole right side of it splashed and stained——

It was a darkish morning. He took the coat to the window and examined it
by touch and eye. He exclaimed,

‘It’s damp!’ And then, ‘This coat has been washed.’ He held it at arm’s
length with his right hand and pointed with his left. ‘All this right
side has been washed—you can see the watermark. Why did you wash it,
Miss Cray?’

She wasn’t angry now, she was controlled and pale. She made no answer.

‘Was it to wash the bloodstains out? Mrs. Mayhew saw the sleeve hanging
down, and the cuff was stained with blood.’

‘I scratched my wrist.’

It was the truth, but it sounded like a lie, and not even a good one.
She pulled away the sleeve of her jumper, and he said what Carr had said
last night,

‘That little scratch!’

Those were the words, but the tone added something. It said plainly and
scornfully, ‘Can’t you do better than that?’

She made up her mind that she wouldn’t answer any more questions. She
was perfectly plain about it, standing up straight and looking him in
the face.

‘I’ve told you the truth, and I have no more to say ... Yes, I’ll sign a
statement if you want me to, but I won’t answer any more questions.’

He folded up the raincoat, put it down on the window-seat, and asked to
see Miss Frances Bell.




                                NINETEEN


Fancy came into the room, her blue eyes very wide. They observed the
Superintendent, and didn’t think much of him. Like Mrs. Mayhew, Miss
Bell had no affection for a foxy man. The young man with the notebook at
the end of the dining-table was better—quite nice looking in fact. She
wondered, as she always wondered about any new young man, whether he
could dance. Such a lot of nice boys couldn’t and the boys that could
weren’t always the nice ones. With these simple thoughts in her mind she
sat down in a chair which faced the window, thus affording both men an
unshadowed view of her quite incredible complexion.

Constable Whitcombe was not unaffected. He gazed, at first in doubt, but
later with heart-felt appreciation. If Superintendent Drake had any such
feelings he concealed them perfectly, and produced his questions in the
impersonal manner of a conjuror pulling rabbits out of a hat.

They began by being very small rabbits, and Fancy received them in an
amiable manner. She agreed that she was Miss Frances Bell, and that she
was a friend of Mr. Carr Robertson’s. She was staying at the Gate House
on a short visit. Oh, no, she wasn’t engaged to Mr. Robertson—nothing
like that—they were just friends. She didn’t know Mr. Lessiter at all.
She didn’t even know him by sight—not till she saw his picture in the
paper.

‘And when was that, Miss Bell?’

‘Oh, that was last night.’

He leaned towards her across the table.

‘Now, Miss Bell, I want you to tell me just what happened last night.’

The blue eyes opened slowly.

‘How do you mean, happened?’

‘Well, just what you did, all three of you—you, and Miss Cray, and Mr.
Robertson.’

‘Well, Carr and I were up in town for the day. We got back a little
before seven, and we had supper, and Mr. Ainger came in with some
picture-papers. Is that what you want?’

‘Yes. What time would that be?’

‘Well, it would be about a quarter past eight.’

‘Go on.’

‘Mr. Ainger went away—he had to go and see an old woman who was ill.
And then Miss Cray went to the telephone—it’s in here. Carr and I
looked at Mr. Ainger’s papers.’

‘Was that when you saw Mr. Lessiter’s picture?’

‘Yes—only it was Carr that saw it, not me. I can show it to you if you
like.’

He said, ‘Presently will do for that. So Mr. Robertson saw this picture.
What did he say when he saw it?’

The blue eyes wavered from his. It is a fact that not till this moment
did it occur to Fancy that what Carr had said could have any possible
connection with James Lessiter’s death an hour or two later. If Carr
himself or Rietta Cray had pointed out the connection by asking her to
forget what had happened between Henry Ainger’s agreeable departure and
Carr’s tempestuous one, she would doubtless have done her best to
comply, and under expert cross-examination she would almost certainly
have failed. But neither Carr nor Rietta had been able to bring
themselves to suggest any such thing. To each of them it would have
looked like an admission of guilt. The mere possibility was dismissed
with angry pride. Fancy was therefore left to her own direction. A
bewildered, frightened feeling swept over her. Carr’s voice rang harshly
in her memory: ‘So it’s you—you swine!’ She couldn’t tell the
Superintendent that. But what was she to tell him? When you can’t tell
the truth and you haven’t any practice in telling lies, what do you do?
She hadn’t the faintest idea. An exquisite flush rose and glowed under
the fine skin, the blue eyes slowly filled. Constable Whitcombe found
himself quite unable to look away. The Superintendent remained
unaffected. He thought the girl was a fool, and he thought he was going
to get something out of her. He repeated his question rather sharply.

‘What did he say?’

There was a pause. The blush faded. Fancy said,

‘Miss Cray came back, and Carr went out for a walk.’

Drake rapped on the table.

‘You haven’t answered my question, Miss Bell. Mr. Robertson saw this
picture of Mr. Lessiter. What did he say when he saw it? Did he appear
to recognize it?’

‘Well, sort of——’

‘You’ll have to explain that. I want to know what he said.’

Fancy did the best she could.

‘He—he seemed surprised.’

Drake was quick.

‘Do you mean that he recognised the picture, but he was surprised to
find it was Mr. Lessiter?’

‘Yes—sort of.’

‘He was surprised. Was he angry?’

What could she say to that? Angry wasn’t the word. She didn’t know what
to say. She didn’t say anything. Her silence gave consent.

‘He was angry when he recognized Mr. Lessiter—very angry?’

She sat looking down at the table, damp lashes shading her eyes.

Drake rapped again.

‘He recognized Mr. Lessiter, and he was angry. Why? I think you know. If
you don’t tell me, someone else will.’

Fancy’s head came up with a jerk. She whisked away two angry tears. Her
eyes blazed.

‘Then you can go and ask them!’ she said. Her native Stepney rose
vigorously.

‘Miss Bell——’

She pushed back her chair and jumped up.

‘It’s no use your asking me a lot of questions I can’t answer! If you’ve
got other people who can answer you, go and ask them! If you want to
know what Carr said, ask him—he can tell you a lot better than me!’

The Superintendent maintained his poise. He said,

‘I can’t force you to answer my questions, Miss Bell, but when the
inquest is held you will be obliged to attend and give your evidence on
oath. Meanwhile it is of course your duty to assist the police in every
way you can.’

She stood there. Now that he had made her angry, she wasn’t frightened
any more. He couldn’t make her speak—he had said so himself. She
wouldn’t answer anything she didn’t want to. She wouldn’t answer
anything about Carr being angry.

Now he was speaking again.

‘Mr. Robertson went out, and then Miss Cray went out?’

‘Yes.’

‘How long were they away?’

‘They didn’t go together. He went out of the front door, and she went
out at the back.’

‘All right, we’ll take them one at a time. When did Miss Cray come in?’

What did he want with all these silly questions? What was he getting at?
She said,

‘It was a quarter past nine—the news had just finished.’

‘And Mr. Robertson?’

‘I don’t know—I went to bed.’

‘You didn’t hear him come in?’

‘No, I didn’t. I can’t tell you any more about anything.’

He said, ‘Just a minute, Miss Bell—it was after Mr. Robertson had
recognized the picture that he went out, didn’t he?’

‘I told you he did.’

‘What time was that?’

‘It was half past eight. I looked to see because of the wireless
programme.’

‘Mr. Robertson recognized this picture and almost immediately went out
of the house. He was angry, wasn’t he? Did he bang the door?’

He’d trick her, would he? Fancy’s temper boiled over.

‘Ask him!’ she said and ran out of the room. The dining-room door fell
to behind her with a resounding slam.

Constable Whitcombe so far forgot himself as to whistle.




                                 TWENTY


Carr had walked into Lenton at very much the same pace as he had used
the night before. He found Jonathan Moore in his shop discoursing at
leisure with old Lady Fitchett. The contrast of her square bulk and
gruff manners with Jonathan’s distinguished height and polished courtesy
would have entertained him at any other time. As it was, he chose the
other side of a Chippendale bookcase and made for the door at the back
of the shop.

It took more than a bookcase to deflect Lady Fitchett’s interest. Her
attention wandered from the Hispano-Mauresque plates which were under
discussion. She demanded with energy,

‘Who was that?’

Jonathan Moore looked vague.

‘I really couldn’t say.’

‘Well, he’s just walked through your private door as if it belonged to
him.’

‘One of the men perhaps——’

‘One of the men my foot! It looked like Carr Robertson.’

‘Then it probably was.’

Lady Fitchett snorted. Nothing made her so angry as an attempt at
concealment.

‘Jonathan, you are prevaricating! Is Carr back?’

‘I believe so.’

‘High time, if you ask me! Has he made it up with Elizabeth?’

She got a most charming smile.

‘You had better ask him.’

There was a second snort.

‘You want a great deal too much for these plates.’

‘Think of my income tax.’

‘Think of mine!’

Carr went through the private door and whistled. The sound made
Elizabeth’s heart turn over. This was what he had always done—come
through the door and stood just inside it whistling, so that if she was
upstairs she would hear him and come down, and if she was in the parlour
she had only to call, ‘Come in!’

She called, and next moment there he was, and she was in his arms.
Something about the way he held her set her wondering. Then all in a
minute she was afraid. He didn’t kiss her, he only held her as if he
couldn’t bear to let her go.

‘Carr—what is it?’

She had to say it again. Even then there was a pause before she got her
answer. The hard grip relaxed. He set her away at arm’s length, his
hands heavy upon her shoulders, and said,

‘You’ll have to chuck me again.’

‘Carr!’

‘Somebody murdered James Lessiter last night, and they’ll be pretty well
bound to think it was me.’

She kept her eyes very steadily on his face.

‘And was it?’

He laughed harshly.

‘There—you see—you’d believe it yourself for two-pence!’

Elizabeth’s eyes were very bright—hazel eyes as clear as water.

‘Not for two-pence—only if you said so.’

‘Well, I didn’t. I might have before I saw you, not afterwards. And
anyhow I shouldn’t have gone up behind him and brained him with a
poker.’

‘Carr!’

‘Somebody did. I found him——’

‘You didn’t go there!’

‘Oh, yes, I did. It’s no good telling me I was a fool—I know that now.
I didn’t know he was going to be murdered. I was going to see him and
have a show-down and bang the door on the whole thing—finish—new book,
chapter one—wedding-bells and a happy-ever-after story. It seemed like
quite a good idea. You see, if he was going to be up and down to Melling
House, and I was going to be to and fro to the Cottage, we were more or
less bound to meet. I thought it would be better to have a show-down in
decent privacy. We could then cut each other at leisure, and Melling
would stop asking us anywhere together. It did seem a good idea.’

She stood there, her head with its wind-blown hair a little tilted back
on the long, slender throat, her eyes never wavering from his face.

‘What happened? Tell me.’

He told her about seeing Catherine’s light and going on up to the house,
then round the corner, up the two steps, and in through the door that
stood ajar and the drawn curtains. He spared her nothing—the man lying
dead across his desk, the stained poker, the raincoat with its drenched
sleeve and splashed skirt.

When he had finished she said,

‘It’s a pity you wiped the poker.’

‘I had to—in case——’

She shook her head.

‘It was a pity. You said you wouldn’t have come up behind anyone and hit
them over the head with the poker. Did you think Rietta would?’

The colour came up into his face.

‘I didn’t begin to think until a lot later than that. That damned coat
was there—the next I knew I was wiping the poker. I don’t suppose it
made a ha’porth of difference. The murderer had been thinking all right.
He either slipped on that coat to do the job, or else he messed it up
afterwards—on purpose. Do you think he would have overlooked the
poker?’

‘No——’ She thought for a moment. ‘Carr, if you took the raincoat away
and didn’t leave any fingerprints yourself, I don’t see what there is to
make anyone think it was you.’

He said grimly, ‘There’s our little Fancy—that’s all. She and I were
looking at Henry Ainger’s papers together, when I turned up James
Lessiter’s picture. I can’t remember what I said, but she will.
Something on the lines of “I’ve got you, you swine.” After which I
proceeded to bang out of the house.’

‘Won’t she hold her tongue? Couldn’t you have asked her——’

He was frowning fiercely.

‘No!’

Then all at once he relaxed.

‘It wouldn’t be a bit of good if I did. The child is quite artless, and
they’d have it out of her. Better let her say her piece and take the
line that we haven’t got anything to hide.’

The telephone bell rang. Elizabeth walked over to the table and lifted
the receiver. He heard her say, ‘Yes, he’s here.’ Then she looked over
her shoulder.

‘Carr, it’s Rietta. She wants to speak to you.’

Rietta Cray’s deep voice came to him along the wire. She was speaking
German. She said,

‘It’s not too good, Carr. They have taken away the coat. We didn’t wash
it well enough. Mrs. Mayhew knows I was there. She listened. She heard
him speak about his will and say, “If young Carr murders me tonight,
you’ll come in for a tidy fortune.” It’s not so good, is it? I thought
you had better be warned.’

There was a click as she hung up. He did the same, and turned, repeating
what she had said. At the end he used the words Rietta had used.

‘Not so good, is it?’

She said soberly, ‘They’ll find out who did it. But you ought to have
legal advice.’

‘Yes—I’ll go and see old Holderness.’

‘He’s not—a criminal lawyer.’

His mouth twisted.

‘Gosh—that rubs it in!’

‘I’m sorry.’

‘You needn’t be—we’re going to have to go through the mill all right.
To come back to Holderness. He knows us all, and if we’re too criminal
for him, he can turn us over to somebody else. He’ll know who we’d
better have. I’ll go round and see him.’

‘Come back and tell me what he says.’

He nodded, went a step or two towards the door, and came back.

‘Elizabeth, last night is washed out. We’re not engaged.’

Her eyes were brighter than ever. She was tall enough to put her arms
round his neck without standing on tiptoe. Her locked hands drew his
head down until she could lay her cheek against his.

‘Aren’t we?’

‘No.’

‘All right, darling, I don’t mind—we’ll get married instead.’

‘Elizabeth!’

She said, ‘Don’t be silly! Run along and see Mr. Holderness!’




                               TWENTY-ONE


Mr. Holderness sat back in his chair. His florid colour stood high, but
the black brows which made such a handsome contrast with his thick grey
hair were drawn together in a frowning line, and the eyes they shaded
had a worried look. It had become more and more pronounced as Carr’s
story proceeded. He drew in his breath now and let it out again in gusty
protest.

‘My dear Carr!’

Carr’s lip twitched.

‘Damnable—isn’t it?’

Mr. Holderness drummed on his knee with big white fingers.

‘You realize, of course, that if all this comes out; you’ll be in very
serious danger of arrest.’

‘I’ve done nothing else but realize it.’

‘Of course there is no reason why it should all come out.’

‘How do you mean?’

‘Who knows that you went up to Melling House last night? How many people
have you told?’

Carr jerked a shoulder.

‘Rietta—Elizabeth—you——’

‘Then don’t tell anyone else. They must hold their tongues, and you must
hold yours.’

He said slowly, ‘I’m not sure about that.’

‘You’d better be.’

‘I’m not sure. You see, they know Rietta was there—they’ll say she had
a motive. She went up to warn him that I’d found out about him and
Marjory. He told her some cock-and-bull story to soothe her down. Then
he produced a will he had made in her favour when they were engaged—and
Mrs. Mayhew was listening at the door! She heard him say, “If young Carr
murders me tonight, you’ll come in for a tidy fortune.” That puts it
fair and square on Rietta—or me. If I back out, it just leaves Rietta.
Besides, everything else apart, Fancy will tell them about my
recognizing his photograph and slamming off in a blazing rage.’

Mr. Holderness set his jaw in a very obstinate manner.

‘There will be time enough for you to commit suicide if it proves that
Rietta is in any real danger. I really must insist that you hold your
tongue.’

Carr cocked an eyebrow.

‘Suicide?’

Mr. Holderness stared at him angrily.

‘You might just as well if you propose to tell the police, firstly, that
you recognized James Lessiter’s portrait last night as that of the man
who seduced and deserted your wife, and secondly, that you were present
on the scene of the crime at or about the time it was committed. You can
do as you like, but I refuse to be associated with any such folly.
Rietta is not, to my mind, in anything like so serious a position as you
are. No one who knew her would believe that she would commit a sordid
crime for money.’

Carr gave a half absent nod, and then came out with,

‘I wonder who did do it——’

The large, well kept hand rose and fell upon Mr. Holderness’s knee.

‘James Lessiter had made a great deal of money. That kind of fortune is
often made at the expense of somebody else. It seems improbable to me
that it was a local crime, though quite possibly pains may have been
taken to make it look like one. I wonder, now, whether there is anything
missing. I had a very careful inventory taken after Mrs. Lessiter’s
death. I think the first thing for me to do will be to communicate with
the police and suggest that they should check up on it. There were some
valuable things in that house. If any of them are missing—well, that
will be something for the police to follow up. And meanwhile I insist
that you keep your own counsel. If you are asked to make a statement you
will say that, acting under the advice of your solicitor, you prefer to
say nothing until the inquest. That will give me time to find out how
the land lies.’

Carr nodded briefly, his mind elsewhere. He appeared to be debating
something. An air of hesitation in the end resolved itself. He said,

‘Do you know anything about Cyril Mayhew?’

The hand on Mr. Holderness’s knee jumped slightly.

‘Why do you ask that?’

‘Idle curiosity. I asked Rietta about him the other day, and she shied
off the subject. What has he been up to?’

‘I believe he has been in trouble.’

‘With the police?’

‘I am afraid so. He was bound over.’

‘What had he done?’

‘Theft from his employer, I believe. The Mayhews felt it very much. It’s
hard when an only son goes wrong. They are most respectable people.’

‘Only children get spoilt. Cyril was a horrid little squirt.’

‘Parents are often extremely unwise. What made you ask about Cyril
Mayhew?’

Carr looked at the ceiling.

‘Nothing—except that I saw him at Lenton Station last night.’

Mr. Holderness knit his brows.

‘Are you sure?’

‘Absolutely.’

‘Did you speak to him?’

‘No. I only saw him by accident. He got out of the last carriage and cut
away behind the booking-office. It didn’t strike me he wanted to be
spoken to. I’ve been wondering if he went home last night.’

Mr. Holderness said,

‘I think we will ask the police.’




                               TWENTY-TWO


When Rietta Cray had finished her telephone call she remained sitting at
the writing-table upon which the instrument stood. She liked a
good-sized table, and was grateful for the room afforded by a bulging
bay which broke the front wall of the dining-room. She stayed there, the
dining-table at her back—one of the old-fashioned Victorian kind built
to take a family and much too large for its present surroundings.
Neither it nor the heavy upright chairs with imitation Sheraton backs
and seats of faded brocade were in the least suited to a cottage, but
Rietta had grown up with them, and it would never have occurred to her
to change them. They belonged to the time when her father had the
leading practice in Lenton and they lived in a big house on Main Street.
That time seemed very far away. Dr. Cray died, and they came to live at
the White Cottage. Nearly thirty years ago. A long time.

She sat looking at the telephone for some minutes before she stretched
out her hand and again lifted the receiver. The voice which answered her
from the Exchange was not Gladys Luker’s, as it had been when she rang
up Carr. It was Miss Prosser who said ‘Hullo!’ and that made everything
a great deal easier. Everyone in Melling knew that Gladys listened in if
she thought there was going to be anything worth listening for, but Miss
Prosser couldn’t be bothered. She was not deaf but a little hard of
hearing, and as she put it herself, ‘I’ve got enough to do getting hold
of what I’ve got to.’

Rietta gave the number she wanted, and had to repeat it—‘21 Lenfold.’
She wondered whether Miss Prosser would remember that it was Randal
March’s private number. On being made Chief Constable of the County he
had bought an agreeable small house some miles out of Lenton, installed
an elderly married couple to do for him, and developed an interest in
the garden, which boasted a tiny stream, a water-lily pond, and a patch
of woodland.

As she waited for the call to come through she told herself that she was
a fool to ring up, but that she would probably be preserved from the
consequences of her folly because as likely as not Randal wouldn’t be
there. He might if he was coming home to lunch. But then it was quite
likely that he wouldn’t be coming home to lunch. He might even be coming
over here—if Superintendent Drake had had time to make his report.

Someone lifted the receiver at the other end. Randal March said,
‘Hullo!’ The colour ran hot to the roots of Rietta’s hair. Why in the
world had she rung him up? A most preposterous piece of folly. She heard
her own voice say in deep, calm tones,

‘Is that you, Randal?’

He sounded warm and pleased as he said, ‘Rietta!’

Her flush died down. She thought, ‘He hasn’t heard yet—it’s all right.’
She said,

‘I just wanted to ask you something. It’s about your Miss Silver. You
know she’s staying here with Mrs. Voycey who is an old school friend of
hers——’

‘So I gathered. Have you met her? Unique, isn’t she?’

‘Yes. Randal, how good is she—at her job, I mean?’ He laughed.

‘Oh, definitely top of the class! No, that’s the wrong simile. She’s the
teacher up at the desk, with the rest of us sitting in a row in the
infants’ class.’

Her voice went deeper, slower.

‘Do you really mean that? Seriously?’

‘Quite seriously. Rietta, why do you ask? Is there anything wrong?’

‘Quite a lot.’ She slipped into French just in case. ‘James Lessiter was
murdered here last night.’

‘So I am informed. I haven’t had a report yet.’

Rietta Cray said, ‘I’m the chief suspect, Randal,’ and rang off.




                              TWENTY-THREE


Randal March looked up from the typewritten sheets which he had just
been reading. He went through them without comment until he came to the
end. When he let the last page fall Superintendent Drake said,

‘Well, sir, there you have it. There’s no denying there’s quite a
serious case against Miss Cray.’

March smiled.

‘My dear man, it’s absurd. I’ve known Miss Cray since she was a child.
She is quite incapable of hitting anyone over the head with a poker.’

Drake stiffened. So that was going to be the way of it.
Class-consciousness rose in him, bitter as brine. He had known her since
she was a child—so she couldn’t do murder! All these people hung
together! His thin nose had a pinched look as he said,

‘That’s what somebody always says until it’s proved. A murderer is just
like anyone else until you get him on the end of a rope.’

Randal March had the pleasant, even temper which goes with a good
physique, good health, and a good conscience, but at this moment a jag
of pure rage went through him. It surprised him a good deal. He found it
uncomfortably revealing. He was, fortunately, able to control any
outward manifestation and merely repeat his former assertion.

‘Miss Cray is quite incapable of murdering anyone.’

That pinched look extended to the rest of Drake’s features. One might
have said a hungry fox.

‘What we have to look at is the evidence, sir. If you will just cast
your eye over those statements again you will see that Miss Cray has
quite a strong motive. She was engaged to this Mr. Lessiter a matter of
twenty years ago or more. She says she broke off the engagement herself,
but she declines to say why, and the local opinion is that he treated
her badly. I don’t say there’s actual evidence that she bore him any
grudge, but she might have done. On the top of that he comes back here
twenty years later full of money. Then we come to the events of last
night. Mr. Carr Robertson refuses to make any statement. That, to my
mind, is a very suspicious circumstance. I wouldn’t think so much of it
if he was older. It’s more natural for a middle-aged person to be
cautious, but it isn’t natural for a young man of twenty-eight. It’s
highly suspicious. He knows something, and he’s afraid it’s going to
look bad, either for himself or for Miss Cray, so he’s holding his
tongue. But look at Miss Bell’s statement. She makes it perfectly clear
that Mr. Robertson went banging out of the house because he had just
seen a photo of Mr. Lessiter in a picture-paper with the name
underneath. I find they had never met or seen each other, but the minute
Mr. Robertson sees this photo with the name under it he recognizes it
and rushes off out. Now the local talk is that Mr. Robertson’s wife ran
off to France while Mr. Robertson was in Germany. Nobody knew who it was
she’d run off with. Then Mr. Robertson is demobbed and comes home.
Presently his wife turns up ill. The man she went away with has left her
flat. Mr. Robertson takes her in and nurses her, and she dies—a matter
of two years ago. The talk is he’s set himself to find out who was
responsible. Mrs. Fallow that works for Miss Cray, she’s got some story
about a photo. Says she heard Mr. Robertson tell his aunt he’d know the
man if he saw him because Marjory—that’s his wife—had a photo. Well,
that’s just local talk, but it fits in. Now come back to Miss Bell’s
statement and you’ll see that no sooner has Mr. Robertson gone out by
the front than Miss Cray goes out by the back. She picks up the first
coat she comes to—it happens to be her nephew’s—and she goes off up to
Melling House, where Mrs. Mayhew hears Mr. Lessiter tell her about the
will he made when they were engaged—“Everything to Henrietta Cray,”
etc. And she hears him say, “If young Carr was to murder me tonight,
you’d come in for quite a tidy fortune.” ’ Drake paused, pleased with
what he felt to be an efficient and convincing exposition.

Randal March said, ‘Well?’

‘Well, sir, does that leave any doubt in your mind that Miss Cray’s
reason for hurrying up to Melling House was to warn Mr. Lessiter that he
might apprehend some act of violence on the part of Mr. Carr Robertson?’

Randal March smiled a little more pleasantly.

‘If she took the trouble to go and warn him, then she didn’t murder him.
You’re trying to have it both ways, Drake. I’m afraid you can’t do
that.’

Drake’s eyes narrowed between the red lashes.

‘Wait a minute, sir—I don’t think you’ve got the point. When she came
up to warn him she didn’t know about that will. They say he’s worth the
best part of half a million. You might come up to warn a man, and change
your mind about it if it was going to mean half a million in your
pocket.’

Randal March had himself very well in hand. He maintained the exact
shade of attention due to an efficient subordinate with whose
conclusions it is impossible to agree. He had the air of giving due
weight to the supposition that a hypothetical half million might have
inspired Rietta Cray to hammer out a man’s brains with a poker.
Attention having been given to this theory, he shook his head.

‘Not in character, I’m afraid.’

Superintendent Drake pursued the theme.

‘There’s evidence which is going to take a lot of explaining away, if
you don’t mind my saying so. After refusing to explain why she was in
such a hurry, Miss Cray says in her statement that she picked up the
first coat she came to—they hang in the passage, and she went out by
the back door. The coat she did take was an old one of Mr. Robertson’s.
It has a plaid lining with a yellow stripe in it. Mrs. Mayhew’s
statement refers to this. When she went back to the study the second
time and opened the door this coat was hanging over a chair. A bit of
the lining showed, and she describes it. One of the sleeves was hanging
down, and she says the cuff was all over blood. Miss Cray explains this
by saying she scratched her wrist coming up through the wood. But mark
this, sir—all the right side of that coat had been sponged down. It was
hanging in among the others in the passage, and all one side of it still
wet. I sent it right away to see what a test could make of it, and this
is what I’ve got. I was on the phone to them the last thing before
coming out and they say there are traces of human blood over the whole
damp area. The right cuff must have been fairly drenched—there’s quite
a lot left along the stitched seam and where the lining is doubled over.
There’s no doubt at all that the staining was very extensive, and a
great deal more than could be accounted for by a surface scratch. Miss
Cray showed me her wrist, and the scratch theory just won’t wash.’

March turned over the sheets in front of him and picked one up.

Drake went on speaking.

‘The only thing that would account for the condition of the coat is that
it was worn by the murderer.’

March looked up from the sheet he was holding.

‘Mrs. Mayhew particularly says in her statement that she heard no sound
in the room on this second occasion. That would point to Miss Cray
having left. There is no proof that she was wearing the coat when it
became so deeply stained. If she scratched her wrist as she says, there
might have been enough superficial staining to attract Mrs. Mayhew’s
attention. And the murderer’s. Somebody else’s coat with somebody else’s
blood on it would be a bit of luck, not to be counted on but certainly
not to be overlooked.’

‘You are putting forward the theory that Miss Cray went home without her
coat—it was a very cold night—and that someone else put it on to
murder Mr. Lessiter. If that is so, how do you account for the fact that
the coat was hanging up in her hall and had been washed? There is, of
course, just one thing that would account for it—I’ve thought of that
myself. If Mr. Carr Robertson came up to Melling House after Miss Cray
had left he could have slipped on the coat—it was an old one of his
own, you remember—and when he had done the murder he would only have to
walk back to the cottage and make the best job he could of cleaning up
the mess he had got it into. There’s no doubt where that job was done.
There’s a little wash-place at the end of the passage. We found a smear
on the underside of the basin, and a couple of splashes of blood on the
floor—there’s a dark linoleum and they didn’t show. The coat must have
been reeking wet when it was taken in there. I suppose they thought they
had cleaned up, but there’s usually something gets overlooked.’

Randal March sat appalled. This was evidence which couldn’t be dismissed
with a shake of the head. Not evidence against Rietta—there reason
continued to block the way—but the possibility of a strong case against
Carr Robertson. If last night he had really identified James Lessiter
with the seducer of his wife, it might prove to be a damnably strong
case.

And Carr wasn’t making any statement.




                              TWENTY-FOUR


‘May I come in, dear?’

Mrs. Voycey, who was doing accounts, turned her head. She beheld Miss
Silver attired for walking in her second-best hat which resembled her
best so closely that it would have been indistinguishable from it but
for the fact of being trimmed with a band of plain petersham instead of
an abundance of satin loops. In either case there was a small nosegay of
flowers on the left-hand side, but the everyday bunch was smaller,
older, flatter, and consisted of a tired wallflower in a pale circle of
mignonette, repeating the tones of the elderly fur neck-tie much
treasured for its draught-excluding qualities. The black cloth coat
remained the same whether it was Sunday or week-day, and so did the neat
black laced shoes and black woollen stockings which it was Miss Silver’s
habit to wear from October to April, and sometimes beyond it if the
spring was a cold one.

Having entered and closed the door gently behind her, Miss Silver
coughed. A capacious handbag depended from her wrist, and she wore black
knitted gloves. She said,

‘Such a terribly raw day. I hope I do not disturb you, Cecilia, but I
have just received an invitation to lunch. I thought that you would have
no objection to my accepting it.’

Mrs. Voycey was amiable but surprised.

‘An invitation to lunch?’

‘Yes, Cecilia—from Miss Cray.’

Mrs. Voycey said, ‘Oh——’

Since the arrival of the milkman with the first intelligence of James
Lessiter’s death the village news-service had been extremely active.
Mrs. Crook had ‘popped out’ to the general shop for a packet of
cake-mixture, a thing which she ordinarily despised, and had there
encountered a niece of Mrs. Fallow’s who had almost, if you might put it
that way, seen Mrs. Mayhew. The niece had been inspired to ‘step up’ to
Melling House with an offer of neighbourly assistance, and if she hadn’t
actually seen Mrs. Mayhew, she had seen and talked to Mrs. Fallow who
had only just left her.

‘Can’t hardly lift her head, pore thing,’ said Mrs. Crook, retailing the
interview to Mrs. Voycey and her guest. ‘They’ve had the doctor to her,
and he says it’s the shock, and Mrs. Fallow’s to stay and not to let her
set her hand to anything. And from what Mrs. Fallow says there’s been
enough to give her a shock—blood everywhere, and Miss Rietta Cray’s
coat soaked with it up to the elbow.’

Mrs. Voycey said, ‘Nonsense, Bessie!’

Mrs. Crook stood her ground.

‘That’s what Mrs. Fallow told her niece, and she come straight from Mrs.
Mayhew that saw it. And they do say the pore gentleman left everything
to Miss Cray, and the will lying there right under his hand with his
blood on it. Mr. Mayhew seen it when he found the body, and he says it’s
right enough someone had been trying to burn it, because it was scorched
all down one side.’

‘Rietta Cray wouldn’t harm a fly,’ said Mrs. Voycey.

Mrs. Crook maintained an immovable front.

‘Flies don’t make wills,’ she said darkly. ‘But they do say there was
maybe more in it than that. It seems Mr. Carr, he comes bursting out of
the Cottage round about half-past eight. Jim Warren that goes with Doris
Grover, he happened to be passing, and he tells Doris that if ever he
sees anyone in a passion it’s Mr. Carr. Pretty well beside himself, he
says, and goes past him like anything wound up, and he hears him say Mr.
Lessiter’s name swearing like. Horrid, Jim says it was—made him think
of a dog that’s got something between its teeth worrying it. Doris says
he come in looking all anyhow, and she says, “What’s up, Jim?” and
that’s what he tells her. Always a bit soft Jim was from a child. Doris
says she had to get him a nip of her father’s whisky, and Mr. Grover
didn’t half carry on.’

At this point Miss Silver intervened.

‘Which way was Mr. Carr Robertson going?’

Mrs. Crook stared in a contemplative manner. Miss Silver phrased her
question again.

‘Was Mr. Carr going in the direction of Melling House?’

Mrs. Crook considered. She took her time.

‘Couldn’t have been,’ she said at last—‘not if Jim met him. Up from the
other side, that’s the way Jim would come. First of the small cottages
on the left, that’s where the Warrens live, and that’s the way Mr. Carr
must have gone, because Jim says their dog run out and barked at him as
he went past. But they do say it could have been Mr. Lessiter that ran
off with Mr. Carr’s wife, and that maybe it all come out and Mr. Carr
killed him for it.’

It was with all this in the background that Mrs. Voycey heard Miss
Silver say that she was going out to lunch with Rietta Cray, and said,
‘Oh——’. It was so very unlike her to have no more than that to say
that Miss Silver instinctively paused for what would come next.

An expression of lively interest overspread Mrs. Voycey’s face, and she
exclaimed,

‘Maud! Has she consulted you? Professionally, I mean. Oh, I do wish she
would!’

‘She has asked me to lunch,’ said Miss Silver.

Mrs. Voycey clasped her hands. Three handsome rings which were a little
too tight for her gleamed under the pressure.

‘Then you must certainly go. Really, you know, it is quite providential
that you should be staying here, because nothing will ever make me
believe that Rietta would do anything like that. It’s really too
shocking, and it only shows what a dreadful thing gossip is. The breath
is hardly out of that poor man’s body before everyone in the village is
saying he ran away with Carr’s wife, and that Rietta murdered him
because he had left her a fortune. I mean, it isn’t sensible, is it? I
don’t suppose he ever set eyes on Marjory. I’m sure I only saw her half
a dozen times myself, and if I ever did see a young woman whom I
disliked—dreadfully pretty and not a bit of heart! And Carr was engaged
to such a nice girl before he met her. Marjory simply grabbed at him and
he went down like a ninepin, and that nice Elizabeth Moore went off and
joined the A.T.S. I believe she commanded an anti-aircraft battery or
something like that. And Marjory ran away like I told you, but I can’t
see why it should have had anything to do with James Lessiter.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘Perhaps, dear, I should be going—’

It took her another ten minutes to get away.

At the White Cottage she found that Miss Cray was not alone. Mrs. Welby
was with her but almost immediately rose to go. Miss Silver, observing
her with attention, took note of the fact that her make-up, discreet and
carefully applied as it was, had as its foundation that rather ghastly
pallor which no make-up can quite disguise. No one seeing Miss Silver
would have supposed her to possess the eye of an expert where cosmetics
were concerned, or indeed in any other direction, yet at a single glance
she was aware of that underlying pallor, and of the fact that the
foundation cream, the powder and the rouge with which Mrs. Welby had
done her best to conceal it were the best and most expensive of their
kind. They had been applied with a high degree of art, and, for a woman
who had run over before lunch to see an old friend and country
neighbour, Catherine Welby had taken a good deal of trouble with her
clothes. Whereas Rietta Cray was in a short brown tweed skirt and an old
sweater of natural wool, both very well worn, Catherine looked as if
everything she had on had been most carefully chosen. There was nothing
that was not suitable, but the general effect was that everything was a
little too new. She might have taken part just as she was in the
mannequin parade of some house which specialized in country clothes. The
grey tweed coat and skirt were perfectly cut. The jumper, of a paler
shade, displayed the very latest neckline, her smart brogues the very
latest heel. If she was bare-headed, it was not from informality, but
because it was the fashion. Not a wave of the golden hair was out of
place.

Had her acquaintance with Mrs. Welby been less recent, Miss Silver would
have recognized that she had somehow passed the intangible line which
separates enough from too much. Even without this longer acquaintance
she was aware of something of the sort. It seemed to her that there was
an indefinable hardening, the failure of something which might have
given life and freshness to the whole.

In the few minutes which elapsed between greeting and goodbye Miss
Silver dealt with the impressions she was receiving. She was too
intelligent herself not to recognize intelligence in others. She
recognized it in Catherine Welby, and a quotation from an older poet
than her favourite Lord Tennyson presented itself:

                 ‘Still to be neat, still to be drest,
                 As you were going to a feast——
                 . . . . . . . .
                 Lady, it is to be presumed——
                 . . . . . . . .
                 All is not sweet, all is not sound.’

There was intelligence up to a point, but to overdo an effect is not
intelligent. Perhaps it was only against this background of sudden
tragic death and gathering scandal that the effect appeared in this
instance to be overdone. Perhaps——

Her eyes followed Catherine Welby thoughtfully as she left the room.




                              TWENTY-FIVE


When the door closed there was a little pause. To Rietta Cray it was
like the moment when you stand above an icy pool and brace yourself to
take the plunge. There came to her the thought that it need not be
taken. Her confidence was still her own. She had only asked Miss Silver
to lunch. If anything more had been implied, it could still be ignored.
She became aware of Miss Silver’s regard, and lifted her eyes to meet
it.

Something incomprehensible happened. She experienced what many of Miss
Silver’s clients had experienced. When she thought about it afterwards
the image which presented itself was that so often seen during the war,
the spectacle of a house with the front ripped right off and every room
on every floor open and bare to the passing eye.

Miss Silver’s eye did not pass. It dwelt upon her, calmly and
thoughtfully exploring. A smile changed the small, neat features. It
imparted confidence, and above all it charmed. Then the whole
astonishing experience was over. It was the little dowdy ex-governess
who said,

‘How can I help you, Miss Cray?’

Rietta had no answer ready. She found that she was being invited to sit
down in her own house. A feeling of beneficent authority diffused
itself. She leaned forward and said with a child’s simplicity,

‘We are in great trouble.’

Miss Silver coughed gently.

‘I believe I know something about it.’

‘Everyone does. I suppose it is always like this, only you don’t think
about it until it happens to yourself. Anyone can ask you anything. If
you don’t answer, they make something up. There’s no privacy any more.’

‘Does that matter so much, Miss Cray?’

‘You mean, have I got anything to hide? I suppose I have. I suppose
everyone has things that they would rather not have trampled upon——.’
On the last words her voice went down into the depths.

Miss Silver looked at her with concern. She saw painful evidences of a
sleepless night and continuing strain. The fine eyes had marks like
bruises under them. She said in her most practical voice,

‘What did you have for breakfast?’

‘I don’t know.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘It is just on one o’clock. You have asked me to lunch, and I think we
will defer our talk until we have had something to eat. Perhaps you will
allow me to help you.’

Rietta felt surprised and relieved. She wouldn’t have to talk about it
yet. The thought of lunch was rather dreadful, but it deferred the
moment when she would have to talk about James Lessiter. She said,

‘Everything is ready. Fancy will help me bring it in. That’s the girl
who is staying here—Frances Bell. You will meet her, and Carr. I expect
that’s a good thing.’

In the course of her professional activities Miss Silver had become
accustomed to the kind of meal in which she now participated. The
general feeling of gloom and apprehension, the sporadic outbursts of
conversation checked and impeded by the fear of saying something which
would better have remained unsaid, the alternating patches of silence
during which no one can think of anything to say—all these were
perfectly familiar. She herself could always produce a small even
trickle of talk, but she did not always choose to do so. She sometimes
found it instructive to watch how people behaved under the stress of
silence. Today she made it her concern to see that Miss Cray partook of
a sufficient meal, and in this she ultimately succeeded. It became
easier to eat something than to keep on saying no, and after the first
few mouthfuls Rietta was aware of her own need for food.

Observing Mr. Carr Robertson, Miss Silver could not fail to be aware of
his disapproval. Men, she reflected, had so little power of hiding their
feelings. From the earliest stage they presented their frame of mind to
the world in a manner which was often sufficiently naïf to be engaging.
She could have no doubt at all that Mr. Carr thought her a meddling old
maid. He reminded her of more than one little boy who considered himself
affronted at having to share his sisters’ lessons. She regarded him with
indulgence.

For Fancy Bell in her scarlet suit she had a faint kind smile. A
guileless creature, and an open book to a tactful and experienced
questioner. She had no doubt that if Fancy knew anything, she herself
would know it before very long. As to Mr. Carr—well, her immediate
business was not with him.

To Rietta the time passed at once slowly and too fast. Since Carr and
Fancy volunteered to wash up, she could count on no more delays. She
found herself in the sitting-room with Miss Silver, who had the air of
being quite at home there. She had removed her tippet and laid aside her
coat, revealing beneath it a dress of sage-green wool with some odd
little bits of embroidery down the front. Her favourite brooch, a rose
carved in black bog-oak with an Irish pearl at the centre, fastened the
neck of this garment and slightly dragged it down. A fine gold chain
looped up on the left-hand side supported the pince-nez used for small
print or in a bad light. The capacious black bag reposed on the floor
beside her open, and served to confine the ball of pale blue wool from
which she was knitting a cosy coat and knickers for her niece Ethel
Burkett’s little Josephine. She kept her hands low in her lap, holding
the needles after the Continental fashion as she and Cecilia had been
taught by the German mistress, Fraulein Stein, when she was at school.
It has the great advantage of making it almost impossible to drop a
stitch. It is not, therefore, necessary to watch either one’s hands or
the work. Miss Silver rarely glanced at the rapidly clicking needles or
the lengthening strip of blue. She gazed placidly at her hostess and
said,

‘Before you tell me anything I must ask you in what way you think I may
be able to help you.’

Rietta felt the icy shock which she had been anticipating. She heard
herself say in a lost voice,

‘I don’t know——’ And then, ‘I hoped——’

Miss Silver said in a grave manner,

‘I must ask you to think clearly about this. I can take no case with any
other object than that of discovering the truth. I cannot undertake to
prove anyone innocent, any more than I would undertake to prove anyone
guilty. I feel obliged to make this perfectly clear to an intending
client. Perhaps you would like a little more time to think it over.’

Rietta’s shivering reluctance was gone. The plunge had been taken. She
looked steadily at Miss Silver and said,

‘No—the truth is what I want.’

The needles clicked, the pale blue strip revolved.

‘Then, Miss Cray perhaps you will tell me just what happened last
night.’

Rietta put up a hand and pushed back her hair.

‘I don’t quite know where to begin ... James Lessiter was an old
friend—at one time we were engaged. I broke it off, and until the day
before yesterday I hadn’t seen him for twenty-three years. I met him
then in the evening after supper at Catherine Welby’s—she lives in the
Gate House at the entrance to the drive of Melling House. James was
perfectly easy and friendly. He walked home with me and discussed one or
two things about which he thought I might have known his mother’s
intentions. I couldn’t help him, but it was all quite easy and friendly.
Then last night——’

She broke off, because now she had to speak, not about herself, but
about Carr. If he were to be left out of it, she might as well not speak
at all. But if he were to be brought in, how could she be sure that she
would not be bringing him into danger? The answer to that came flat and
practical—‘You can’t keep him out.’

Her distress evoked a look of reassurance and a ‘Pray continue, Miss
Cray.’

She went on in short, bald sentences—things like ‘Mr. Ainger came in
and left some papers ... After he had gone I went to the telephone ...
When I came back Carr went out ...’

That wasn’t any good. She knew that it wasn’t.

Miss Silver said gently,

‘I think you will have to tell me why he went out.’ Then, after a pause,
‘Miss Cray, you will have to make up your mind whether you intend to
trust me. Half measures are quite useless. As Lord Tennyson so
beautifully says, “Oh, trust me all in all, or not at all.” ’

‘It isn’t—for myself——’

Miss Silver said,

‘Consider what you imply. You can lay your own thoughts and motives bare
to me because you know that you are innocent. When it comes to Mr. Carr,
are you not so sure?’

Rietta cried out. It was a sound without words, sharp with pain and
protest.

Miss Silver said with quiet authority,

‘You must make up your mind.’

There was a silence. Rietta got up and went to the window. Standing
there with her back to the room, she said,

‘When you’ve said a thing, you can’t take it back. He didn’t do it. It’s
not true to say that I’m not sure, but things can be made to look—as
if—he had a motive.’

Miss Silver knitted. After a little while she said.

‘Come and sit down. Emotion is a distorting factor. We need to be
practical and clear. Here is a point I would like you to consider. If
Miss Bell was present when Mr. Carr left the house so suddenly, she as
well as yourself is aware of why he did so.’

‘Yes.’

‘How long do you suppose she would withstand a cross-examination? You
know her better than I do.’

Rietta said, ‘No—you’re right—I had better tell you. Carr saw James
Lessiter’s picture, and when he saw it he recognized the man who had
seduced and deserted his wife. I suppose you have heard about that.’

‘Yes.’

‘I think there may have been extenuating circumstances. James says she
left him and had been living with another man. It’s quite likely. But
Carr didn’t know that. He rushed out, and I went up to Melling House to
warn James.’ She told the rest of the story simply and clearly. He had
been burning her letters. He had shown her the old will made when they
were engaged. She had scratched her wrist going up through the wood. It
had bled a good deal and stained the cuff of her raincoat. James had
lent her his handkerchief to staunch the blood ... No, she hadn’t
brought it away with her. And she hadn’t brought the raincoat either.
She had taken it off when she went in, and had forgotten it when she
came away.

Miss Silver listened with close attention. At this point she coughed.

‘How did you come to forget your coat, Miss Cray? It was surely a very
cold night.’

The fine grey eyes met hers with perfect candour.

‘I never thought about it.’

‘You came out into the cold and forgot that you had left your coat?’

‘Yes, I really did.’

‘I am not doubting that, but I should like to know what made it possible
for you to forget. You left Mr. Lessiter and came out into the cold
without noticing it. Did you leave him alive?’

The angry colour came to Rietta’s face.

‘Of course I did!’

‘Did you part on friendly terms?’

Rietta’s head was high.

‘No, we didn’t. I was angry. That’s how I came to forget my coat.’

‘What were you angry about?’

‘He made me angry. It was nothing to do—with this, or with Carr.’

Miss Silver gazed at her with mild persistence.

‘Did he make love to you?’

‘No—no—it wasn’t anything like that. It was a business matter—not
even my own business. It concerned a friend.’

Miss Silver continued to gaze for a moment. Then she stooped down and
unwound some lengths of pale blue wool from the ball in her bag.
Resuming her knitting, she enquired with the air of one who changes an
unwelcome subject,

‘You say that you were called to the telephone while Mr. Carr and Miss
Bell were looking at the papers left by Mr. Ainger. Since the question
of time may be involved, perhaps the person who called you up could
corroborate you on this point.’

‘Fancy says it was twenty past eight. She listens incessantly to the
wireless, so she always knows the time. She says Carr and I went out at
half past eight.’

Miss Silver beamed.

‘Your caller could corroborate that. Who was it?’

‘It was Catherine Welby.’

‘And you were talking for ten minutes. Miss Cray—what were you talking
about?’

Rietta felt as if she had missed a step in the dark. There should have
been something solid under her foot, but it wasn’t there. The colour
drained away from her face. Concealment is an art which requires much
practice. She had never acquired it. She looked helplessly at Miss
Silver and beat about in her mind for something to say. She found
nothing better than,

‘We were talking.’

‘On a matter of business?’

‘I suppose you might call it that.’

‘Connected with Mr. Lessiter?’

Rietta said, ‘Oh——’

She was so plainly taken aback that Miss Silver was answered. She
knitted rapidly whilst a number of small circumstances came together in
her mind—Catherine Welby’s pallor and her look of strain; the fact that
James Lessiter had walked home from the Gate House with Rietta Cray and
talked, not about old times, but about his mother’s intentions with
regard presumably to some disposition of her effects; the ten minutes’
conversation with Mrs. Welby about business; the angry parting between
Rietta Cray and James Lessiter after a conversation on
business—business which involved a friend.

From this train of thought the word business emerged with a good deal of
emphasis—business connected with James Lessiter and his mother’s
effects. Scraps of Cecilia Voycey’s gossip came back in an illuminating
manner. Her needles clicked busily. When she spoke again it was to
return to an earlier topic.

‘You say that you came away from Melling House and left your raincoat
behind you?’

‘Yes.’

‘Then I presume that it is in the possession of the police.’

Miss Cray’s hesitation in answering this question was so marked that
when she did at last say, ‘Yes,’ she encountered a look of the most
stringent enquiry. With a hortatory cough Miss Silver said,

‘Just why did you find that question so difficult to answer? Are you not
sure whether the police have the coat?’

This time there was no hesitation. Rietta said,

‘Oh, yes, they have it.’

‘They informed you of that?’

‘They took it away—from here.’

‘Did you go back for it?’

Rietta’s lips moved, but no sound came from them. She shook her head.

Miss Silver stopped knitting for a moment and leaned forward.

‘Miss Cray, you possess information which is vital to your case. You can
impart or withhold it, but if you do not trust me, I cannot help you.’
Then, after a slight but significant pause, ‘If you did not bring the
raincoat back, it is quite plain that it was Mr. Carr who did so.’

Rietta turned as pale as if she had been struck. Then the colour came
back with a rush.

‘Yes—you’re right—I must tell you. It’s no use thinking that
everything won’t come out. Carr walked into Lenton. He went to see
Elizabeth Moore. They were engaged before he met Marjory—his wife. I
hoped they would make it up some day when they met again. They are
really suited, and they cared very much. Marjory was a madness—a very
tragic one for all three of them. Last night Carr went straight to
Elizabeth. I think he was afraid of what he might do. I’m trusting
you—I think he might have done something dreadful when he first rushed
out of the house. But he didn’t, he went to Elizabeth. She has taken him
back. Don’t you see he wouldn’t do anything violent after that? He was
happy and satisfied. You don’t do murder when you’re feeling like that.
All he wanted to do was to close that chapter of his life and have done
with it. He went up to Melling House, and found James lying there dead.’

‘Why did he go to Melling House?’

‘I asked him that. He said it seemed the natural thing to do. He wanted
to close the whole thing down and be done with it, and to do that he
felt that he had to see James and tell him that he knew. Then they could
avoid each other, as he put it, decently.’

Miss Silver said, ‘I see.’

Rietta put up her hand to her head. The long, beautifully shaped fingers
pressed against her temple.

‘He went up there and found James. My raincoat was lying over a chair.
It was most horribly stained. The right cuff and sleeve were soaked.’
Her voice had become strained and toneless. ‘Miss Silver, you asked me
if I was sure that Carr didn’t do it. I am quite, quite sure, and I can
tell you why I am sure. He thought I had done it. He came down here with
the raincoat and asked me why.’ Her hand fell into her lap again. ‘I’m
not sure—I’m really not sure—whether he thinks so still. I don’t think
he does with his feelings, but I think he does with his mind. That’s why
he tried to get the stains out of the coat.’

Miss Silver said, ‘Dear me!’ The words, mild in themselves, carried a
considerable weight of disapproval.

Rietta drew in her breath.

‘All the right side of the coat was wet when the police came this
morning. They took it away.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘Unless the washing was extremely thorough, traces of blood will be
found. You are quite clear that the stains were far more than could be
accounted for by the fact that you had scratched your wrist?’

Rietta shuddered. She said,

‘The sleeve was _soaked_.’




                               TWENTY-SIX


Miss Silver stayed until after three o’clock. By the time she resumed
her coat, her yellow fur tippet, and her warm black woollen gloves, one
whole side of little Josephine Burkett’s woolly jacket had been
completed and cast off. At least an inch of the second front had made
its appearance as a pale blue frill. In her professional capacity it may
be said that she now possessed quite an accurate picture of what had
taken place the previous evening, in so far as this was known to Rietta
Cray. A very short conversation with Fancy had elicited a few extra
details. Fancy was, in fact, only too anxious to talk to someone who
wasn’t the police and who was trying to help Carr and Miss Cray. In the
circles of her origin there had been a wary feeling that however
respectable you were you didn’t get matey with the police. When people
live packed together in very crowded districts their lives and interests
are closely knit. A touch upon one part of the fabric is felt throughout
the whole—people hold together. It would never have occurred to Fancy
that a friend might betray you to the police. She talked freely.

Miss Silver came away with quite a factual impression of Carr
Robertson’s behaviour when he recognized James Lessiter’s photograph.

‘He did look dreadful——’ Fancy thrilled in retrospect—‘white as a
sheet. I’m sure he could have gone on as a ghost without a bit of
make-up. He regularly frightened me. Miss Cray came into the room, and
she said, “Carr!” She was frightened too, you know. He did look
dreadful. And she put her hand on his arm, but he didn’t take a bit of
notice, just went on pointing at the picture. And then he said, “Is that
James Lessiter?” and she said, “Yes.” And he said, “He’s the man I’ve
been looking for—he’s the man who took Marjory away.” She was his wife,
you know, and if you ask me, he was well rid of her, but that’s what he
said—“He’s the man who took Marjory away. I’ve got him now!” and off
out of the room and out of the house, and the doors banging. I knew he’d
got a temper, but I’d never seen him like that before.’

Miss Silver coughed, and enquired whether Fancy had communicated these
interesting particulars to Superintendent Drake. An outraged flush
deepened the wild rose colour under the delicate skin.

‘Oh, no, Miss Silver, I didn’t! They’ve got a way of making you say
things before you know you’ve done it, but I didn’t tell him what Carr
said—I wouldn’t do that!’

Carr Robertson having gone out directly after lunch, Miss Silver had no
opportunity of interviewing him. She considered that on the whole she
had enough to think about. Making her way across the green, she observed
that Mr. Ainger had emerged from the Vicarage Gate and was taking the
path which skirted the village pond and came out a mere stone’s throw
from the gate of the White Cottage. He might be going to visit someone
in the row of cottages alluded to by Bessie Crook, or he might be going
to call upon Miss Rietta Cray. If this were the case, she hoped he would
be tactful. In her experience men were very rarely tactful—men in love
practically never. The Vicar was said to be in love with Miss Cray. If
she had been in love with him, it was probable that they would have
married years ago. If she were not, then the last thing she would desire
at this moment was an emotional scene. Miss Silver shook her head
slightly as she walked. With every esteem for the manly virtues, and a
good deal of indulgence towards the manly failings, it had often
occurred to her that in moments of stress a man could be dreadfully in
the way.

Something of the same feeling afflicted Rietta Cray as she opened the
door to her visitor. He had made for it in a purposeful manner, sounded
a vigorous tattoo with the knocker, and immediately upon Rietta making
her appearance he had taken her by the arm and marched her into the
sitting-room, enquiring in a loud and angry voice,

‘What is all this nonsense?’ Then, as the light fell upon her face and
he saw how blanched and strained it was, he caught her hands in his and
went on more gently, ‘My dear, my dear—you mustn’t take it like this.
No one but a preposterous blundering fool could possibly connect you in
any way——’

His voice had mounted again—a fine organ well suited to the pulpit. At
such close quarters Rietta found it a little overpowering. He was still
holding her hands. She withdrew them with difficulty, and said,

‘Thank you, Henry.’

‘I never heard anything so outrageous! Just because you knew the man a
quarter of a century ago!’

The words sounded bleakly on Rietta’s ear. A quarter of a century—how
sere, how dry, how melancholy it sounded. She forced a faint smile.

‘You make me feel like Methuselah.’

He brushed that aside with an emphatic gesture.

‘Just because you knew the fellow all those years ago!’

‘Not quite that, Henry. I’m afraid there’s more to it than that. You
see, I was there talking to him not very long before it must have
happened. We——’ she hesitated. ‘Well, we quarrelled, and I came away
and left my coat behind me. When I saw it again it was—rather horribly
stained. A stupid attempt was made to get the stains out, and—well the
police found it all wet, and they have taken it away. I don’t see how
they can help suspecting me. Poor James made a will in my favour when we
were engaged. He showed it to me last night and told me he had never
made another. Mrs. Mayhew was listening at the door, and she heard what
he said. You see, they were bound to suspect me. But I didn’t do it,
Henry.’

‘You don’t need to tell me that.’ He ran his hands through his thick
fair hair and made it stand on end. ‘You must have the best advice—you
must see a solicitor at once. You say your coat was stained when you saw
it again. How did you see it again? Someone must have brought it to you.
Was it Carr?’

‘Henry, I can’t tell you anything more.’

‘You’re shielding someone. You wouldn’t shield anyone but Carr—not in a
murder case. Do you know what they’re saying? Mrs. Crockett told my
sister. Dagmar knows how much I object to gossip, but she thought she
ought to tell me. They’re saying that it was James Lessiter who ran away
with Carr’s wife. Is that true? Are you shielding Carr?’

‘Henry—_please_——’

‘Is it true?’

Those bright blue eyes of his were fixed upon her in a very angry and
compelling manner. She said in a tired, flat voice,

‘Carr didn’t do it, and I didn’t do it. I can’t tell you any more than
that.’

She stepped blindly back until she arrived at a chair. If she had to go
on standing she would fall. The room and Henry were beginning to come
and go in a baffling mist. She sat down and closed her eyes.

And then in a moment Henry was on his knees beside her, kissing her
hands, accusing himself, protesting his undying devotion.

‘You’ve never wanted it, but you need it—Rietta, you do need it now.
You want someone to stand up for you and fight your battles. If you’ll
only give me the right! Let me give out our engagement and stand by you
openly. It would knock out this stupid will motive if it didn’t do
anything else. I’ve got quite a lot of money, you know—from my old
Uncle Christopher. It really is quite a lot. That would cut out any
question of motive. And I wouldn’t ask you to live with Dagmar—I know
she’s difficult. I could make her an allowance. Perhaps she could have
this house if you came to the Vicarage.’

Well might Miss Silver reflect upon the male lack of tact, but on this
occasion it had a most salutary effect. The thought of Dagmar Ainger
moving into the White Cottage and running it with iron efficiency warmed
Rietta with a glow of restorative anger. The mist cleared, the floor
became stable, the colour came into her cheeks. She sat up and pushed
Henry Ainger away.

‘Henry, for heaven’s sake! You can’t propose when I’m fainting!’

He wasn’t really abashed. He let go of her hands, but remained upon his
knees.

‘Well, it seems to have brought you round.’ And then, ‘Oh, Rietta—won’t
you?’

The momentary force went out of her. She spoke the bitter, honest truth.

‘I ought to say thank you, but I can’t. I’m fond of you, but I don’t
love you. I can’t even feel grateful to you—I can’t feel anything—I’m
too tired. Please go away.’

He stared at her, dismayed, obstinate.

‘There must be something I can do. Why won’t you let me help you? You
must have someone, and there isn’t anyone else. Even if you hate me you
might let me help you.’

That ‘There isn’t anyone else’ bit deep. How deep, she didn’t know till
afterwards when the sharp hurt of the moment settled into a desolate
aching. She caught her breath.

‘_Please_, Henry——’

He got to his feet and stood there looking down on her, bewildered and
thwarted.

‘Even if you hate me you might let me help you.’

Her mood changed. He did want to help her. Why should she hurt him? She
said,

‘Oh, Henry, don’t be silly. Of course I don’t hate you—you’re one of my
very best friends. And I’m not—not ungrateful—really not. If there’s
anything you can do, I’ll let you do it. It’s just that I’m so
tired—I’m really too tired to talk. If you would please understand
and—and go away——’

He had just enough sense to go.

Miss Silver received a telephone call that evening. Mrs. Voycey,
answering the insistent bell, encountered a pleasant masculine voice.

‘I wonder if I could speak to Miss Silver. I am an old pupil of
hers—Randal March.’

Miss Silver put down her knitting and approached the instrument.

‘Good evening, Randal. It is nice to hear your voice. A very distinctive
one, if I may say so.’

‘Thank you—I will return the compliment. I rang up to say that I have
business in Melling tomorrow. I should not like to be there without
paying my respects. It is a little difficult for me to fix an exact
time, but it would not, I think, be earlier than half past three.’

‘I shall be at home. Mrs. Voycey, I believe, has to go to a meeting in
the village hall. She would, I know, be very glad if you would have a
cup of tea with me.’

He said, ‘Thank you,’ and rang off without giving time for the
affectionate enquiries for his mother and sisters with which she had
been about to round off the conversation.

Returning to the drawing-room and resuming her knitting, she acquainted
Mrs. Voycey with the substance of the call. She was obliged to exercise
a good deal of delicate tact. There was nothing that Cecilia Voycey
would have liked better than to throw over her meeting, remain at home,
and entertain the Chief Constable at tea. She had to be dissuaded from
this course without allowing it to appear that Randal March’s visit was
anything but a respectful gesture to the preceptress of his childhood’s
days.

Knitting briskly, and completing the second side of little Josephine’s
jacket, Miss Silver condoled with her hostess.

‘It is always so difficult when one would like to be in two places at
once. You are the chairman of the Women’s Entertainments Committee, I
understand. So important, of course, with the Christmas season coming
on, and you would be extremely difficult to replace in the chair. Unless
perhaps Miss Ainger——’

Cecilia Voycey coloured quite alarmingly.

‘My dear Maud!’ she exclaimed.

Miss Silver coughed.

‘I thought, dear, you mentioned that she was efficient.’

‘She is a complete kill-joy,’ said Mrs. Voycey in a tone of Christian
forbearance. ‘I have never said that she wasn’t efficient, and I never
will, but you can’t entertain people by being efficient, and when we get
up a play or an entertainment we like to be able to enjoy ourselves and
get some fun out of it. Dagmar Ainger’s idea is to scold everyone till
they are sulky, and then organize everything until you might just as
well be a lot of chessmen on a board for all the life and go there is
left in you. No, no—however much I should like to stay, I can’t risk
it. I am the only one who really stands up to her.’

She continued for some little time to discourse upon the fruitful
subject of Miss Ainger, finishing up with,

‘And how Henry stands it, I can’t imagine. But of course he can always
say he has got to write a sermon and lock the study door!’

Miss Silver remarked mildly that interference in other people’s affairs
was a sad fault. She then steered the conversation into a channel which
led in the most natural manner to Catherine Welby.

‘A very pretty woman. She was with Miss Cray when I arrived this
morning. Has she been a widow for long?’

‘Oh, yes.’ Mrs. Voycey was full of information. ‘Of course everyone
thought she was settled for life when she married Edward Welby. And then
he died and left her with nothing but debts. I really don’t know what
she would have done if Mrs. Lessiter hadn’t let her have the Gate
House.’

‘I should have thought she might have found Melling dull.’

‘My dear Maud, I have no doubt she does, but there is nowhere else where
she could live so cheaply. She did go away during the war, and I believe
she had a very pleasant job, driving for someone at the War Office. She
used to drive Mrs. Lessiter’s car a good deal. Of course we all thought
she would marry again, and I believe she was practically engaged. But
she had very bad luck—the man went abroad and was killed—at least
that’s the story. And then her job petered out and she came back here.
Doris Grover tells Bessie she still gets quite a lot of letters from
India, so perhaps something may come of that. And she goes up and down
to town quite a lot. It would really be very much better if she were to
marry again.’

Miss Silver began to cast off her neat pale blue stitches.




                              TWENTY-SEVEN


The Chief Constable laid down the papers submitted by Superintendent
Drake. He saw before him an unpleasant and harassing day. He found Drake
zealous, efficient, and extremely uncongenial. He allowed none of these
things to show in face or manner.

Drake, always ready to break a silence, took up his tale.

‘As you see, the medical report puts the time of death anywhere between
nine and eleven. Well, we know he was alive at nine, because Mrs. Mayhew
heard him speak about then. If we knew when he had his last meal we
could narrow it down a bit, but with a cold supper left, we can’t do
better than that. They think it couldn’t have been later than eleven.
Well now, Mrs. Mayhew saw that raincoat with the blood on it at a
quarter to ten. That means he was dead within half an hour of the time
at which Miss Cray admits she was there. If he was dead then, Miss
Moore’s statement gives Mr. Robertson an alibi—he was with her until
nine-fifty. But I’ve seen Mrs. Mayhew again, and I don’t make out from
what she says that there was all that blood on the sleeve when she saw
it. She says it was stained round the cuff and she saw the stain. But
when I put it to her, was it soaked, she said no it wasn’t, it was just
stained. And that would tie up with the scratch Miss Cray had on her
wrist. The way I see it now is this. Miss Cray goes home, like she says,
at a quarter past nine. Miss Bell corroborates this. We don’t know why
she left the raincoat, but leave it she did. My guess is, either there
was a quarrel and she came away too angry to notice, or maybe he started
to make up to her and she got nervous and cleared out. Now to my mind
one of two things happened. Either Miss Cray gets thinking about that
old will and the half million it would bring her, and then she remembers
her raincoat and goes on up to get it back. Mr. Lessiter is sitting
there at his table. She puts on her coat, goes over behind him to the
fire as if she was going to warm herself, picks up the poker and—well,
there you are. Then she comes home and washes the coat. It must have
needed it!’

The Chief Constable shook his head.

‘Impossible.’

‘Oh, I wouldn’t say that, sir. It’s one of the things that might have
happened. The other is that Mr. Robertson took Melling House on his way
back from Lenton. He gets there about half past ten, goes in, and sees
the raincoat lying there—it’s an old one of his own, you’ll remember.
He recognizes it, as Mrs. Mayhew did, by the lining. Remember too that
he isn’t wearing a coat himself. He picks it up and puts it on. He has
only to make some excuse to go over to the fire. It was a bitter night,
and he had been walking in the wind, so it would be easy enough. Well,
there he is, with the poker to his hand, as you might say.’

Randal March leaned back in his chair.

‘Isn’t all this a little too easy, Drake? Do you know what strikes me?’

‘No, sir.’

‘I’ll tell you. It’s what you might call the supine acquiescence of Mr.
Lessiter. Here is a young man with quite a bitter quarrel against him—I
am assuming that it really was James Lessiter who had seduced Marjory
Robertson—that’s your theory, isn’t it? Well, if you assume that, you
also assume that Miss Cray’s object in going to Melling House was to
warn James Lessiter. Now on the assumption that Carr had just found out
who was his wife’s seducer, and that James Lessiter had just been warned
that Carr had found him out, do you really think that an interview
between them would have been conducted on the lines you indicate—Carr
Robertson strolling in, putting on his raincoat, going over to the fire
to warm himself, with James Lessiter just sitting at the table with his
back to him? I’m afraid I find it quite incredible.’

‘Then it was Miss Cray.’

‘Who has a witness to prove that she returned home at a quarter past
nine, and Mrs. Mayhew to prove that the coat was only slightly stained
at a quarter to ten.’

‘That leaves more than an hour for her to go back, kill him, and bring
the coat away.’

‘And no evidence to prove that she did any such thing.’

Drake looked at him with narrowed eyes.

‘That raincoat was hanging in her hall, sir. It didn’t walk there.’

A short silence ensued. Drake thought, ‘Set on getting her out of it,
that’s what he is. All the same these people—whoever’s done murder, it
can’t be one of them. But you can’t hush things up like you used to—not
nowadays.’ He went on with his report.

‘Mr. Holderness—he was Mrs. Lessiter’s solicitor, and he’s acting for
Mr. Robertson, and I suppose for Miss Cray——’

‘Yes, I know him.’

‘He was on to me this morning. It seems Mr. Robertson mentioned a
circumstance to him which he thought we ought to know about. The Mayhews
have a son, a lad of about twenty. He’s been working in London. Mr.
Robertson says he saw him get off the six-thirty at Lenton the evening
of the murder. He and Miss Bell were on the train too. Well, it might be
he’d made a mistake, or it might be he’d made it up, but as it happens,
there’s corroboration. The Mayhews go to relations in Lenton on their
day out—name of White—tobacco and sweets, 16, Cross Street. We checked
up on them for the Wednesday of the murder. You remember Mrs. Mayhew
came home early, on the six-twenty bus—well Whitcombe checked up on
that. There’s a boy there, Ernie White—seventeen—helps his father in
the shop. When Mr. Holderness handed us this about young Mayhew I sent
Whitcombe along and told him to find out if Ernie White had seen his
cousin. You see, if he came down on the six-thirty he’d have to get out
to Melling or find someone to put him up in Lenton. As it turns out,
Whitcombe finds out that Cyril Mayhew had borrowed young Ernie’s bike.
Told him his father had forbidden him the house, but he was going to pop
over and see his mother.’

The Chief Constable straightened up.

‘Why had Mayhew forbidden him the house?’

‘Oh, he’d been in trouble. Spoilt only child brought up in a big house.
Got a job in London. Caught taking money out of the till—put on
probation. The officer got him a job, Mayhew wouldn’t have him about the
house. He’s a very respectable man—and I don’t mean just the ordinary
respectable kind—he’s something rather out of the way—very much
respected in Melling. I suppose he felt it was a bit of a
responsibility. Well, there you are—Cyril Mayhew came down on Wednesday
night and borrowed his cousin’s bike. And Mrs. Mayhew took the six-forty
bus. There wasn’t much doubt why she went home early. Mr. Holderness and
his clerk are out at the house now with Whitcombe checking over the
inventory. I looked in on my way, and they say there are some figures
missing from the study.’

‘Figures?’

Drake consulted a note.

‘Four figures—The Seasons——’

‘Seems an odd sort of thing to be taken. What were they—china?’

‘No, sir, gilt. I asked Mrs. Mayhew about them, and she says she thinks
they were there Wednesday morning. She says they were after the style of
those statues you see in a museum—not much in the way of clothes. About
ten inches high.’

If the Chief Constable felt inclined to smile he did not permit himself
to do so. He said,

‘They might be valuable, but it would be a connoisseur’s value, and a
strictly limited market. Of course there are people who specialize in
that sort of thing. The boy might have been got hold of. What does Mrs.
Mayhew say about his being there on Wednesday night?’

‘Oh, she denies it—she would of course. Cries and says she hasn’t seen
him for six months. Well, everyone knows that isn’t true. It’s common
talk he’s been up and down, and Ernie White admitted it wasn’t the first
time he’d lent his bike.’

March frowned.

‘Look here, Drake, Mrs. Lessiter must have had an insurance policy. It
was probably used as a basis for probate. What were those figures
insured for?’

Drake looked alert.

‘I put that point to Mr. Holderness, but it doesn’t get us anywhere. The
only separate items in the insurance were some of the old bits of
furniture and jewelry. Everything else was just lumped together and not
put very high. The total amount including the house was ten thousand.’

March said, ‘I think we might ask Miss Cray about those figures. She
would know if they were still there when she left at a quarter past
nine.’

‘That’s what I thought, sir. Meanwhile I’ve taken steps to find out
whether this young Mayhew is back at his job. I got the address from
Mrs. Mayhew—a firm of house agents in Kingston. I’ve been on to the
local people and asked them to keep an eye on the boy without letting
him know. I thought better not startle him till we knew a little more.’

‘No—quite right, Drake.’ March glanced at his wrist-watch. ‘Well, if we
are to see Miss Cray before we go up to the house we’d better be off.’




                              TWENTY-EIGHT


After another night, sleepless except for indeterminate stretches of
time in which there was a vague sense of half-recognized calamity,
Rietta Cray was paler than yesterday, but steadier—nerves taut and
rigidly controlled. She opened the door to the Chief Constable and
Superintendent Drake, and needed no reminder that this was an official
visit. To the end of her life there would be nightmare moments when she
would re-live that interview.

It was circumstance rather than detail which made the nightmare. They
went into the dining-room, and Drake produced a notebook. Randal sat on
one side of the table and she on the other. She had known him since she
was ten years old. Lately, with Lenfold only five miles away, they had
seen a good deal of one another, and the friendship of slow years had
deepened into something closer. Each had felt a growing awareness of the
other, and each had known where this was leading them. Now, with the
table between them, they were strangers—the Chief Constable of the
county and a pale, strained woman who was the leading suspect in a
murder case. The position came near to being intolerable. Being what
they were, they kept their dignity and observed the social forms. Mr.
March apologized to Miss Cray for troubling her, to which Miss Cray
replied that it was no trouble.

Horrified at his own feelings, Randal March continued.

‘We thought you might be able to help us. You know Melling House well,
don’t you?’

Her deep voice said, ‘Yes.’

‘Can you describe the study mantelpiece?’

She showed a faint surprise.

‘Of course. It’s one of those heavy black marble affairs.’

‘Any ornaments?’

‘A clock, and four gilt figures——’

‘Four gilt figures?’

‘Yes—the Seasons.’

‘Miss Cray, can you tell us whether they were there on Wednesday night?’

The question took her back. She saw the study in a bright small
picture—James with the light overhead, his eyes watchful, teasing
her—the littered ash of the letters she had written to him—his mother
looking down on them, a handsome young matron in white satin with her
ostrich feather fan—the graceful golden figures posed on the black
marble slab. She said,

‘Yes, they were there.’

‘You are quite sure they were there when you left at a quarter past
nine?’

‘Quite sure.’

There was a pause. He had to make headway against his crowding thoughts.
How ghastly pale she was. She looked at him as if she had never seen him
before. How else should she look? He was neither friend nor lover. He
wasn’t even a man, he was a police officer. That horrible moment was the
first in which he consciously used the word love in his thoughts of
Rietta Cray. He said,

‘Can you tell us anything about these figures?’

She seemed to come back from a long way off. Something, some shadow,
darkened her eyes. He thought she was remembering, and felt a sharp
inexplicable pang. She said,

‘Yes—they’re Florentine—sixteenth century, I think.’

‘Then they are valuable.’

‘Very.’ Then, after a slight pause, ‘Why do you ask?’

‘Because they have disappeared.’

Rietta said, ‘Oh!’ A little colour came into her face.

‘Mr. Holderness is taking an inventory, and they are missing. Anything
you can tell us will be a help in tracing them.’

Her manner changed. It became controlled. She said in a hesitating
voice,

‘I suppose you know that they are gold?’

‘Gold!’ Drake looked up sharply, repeating the last word.

March said, ‘Are you sure?’

‘Oh, yes, quite sure. Mrs. Lessiter told me. They were left to her by an
uncle who was a collector. They are museum pieces, very valuable
indeed.’

‘And she had them out on the mantelpiece like that?’

‘Oh, yes. She said nobody would know.’

The Superintendent came in rather sharply,

‘They’re not even mentioned in the insurance.’

Rietta turned her Pallas Athene look upon him.

‘Mrs. Lessiter didn’t believe in insurances. She said you paid away a
lot of money and got nothing for it, and if you had anything valuable it
was just drawing attention to it. She kept on her husband’s insurance on
the house and furniture, but she didn’t bother about any of her own
things. She had some valuable miniatures and other things. She said if
you just left them lying about, everyone got used to them, but the more
fuss you made, and the more you locked things up, the more likely they
were to be stolen.’

March was frowning.

‘Would the Mayhews know about these figures, that they were gold?’

‘I should think so. They are old servants.’

‘Was the son brought up here?’

‘Yes—he went to Lenton Grammar School. He was rather a clever boy.’

‘Would he have known about the figures?’

‘How can I tell?’ Her look changed to one of distress. It went from one
man to the other. ‘Why do you ask that?’

Randal March said,

‘Cyril Mayhew was down here on Wednesday night, and the figures are
gone.’




                              TWENTY-NINE


It was just before half past three that Mrs. Crook ushered the Chief
Constable into Mrs. Voycey’s drawing-room. Miss Silver rose to meet him
with a good deal of pleasure. She could not even now look at the tall,
personable man without recalling the frail, determined little boy who,
after resisting all previous efforts at discipline, had by her own
peculiar mixture of tact and firmness been guided into the paths of
health and knowledge. She had never permitted herself to have
favourites. It was perhaps on this account that, whilst referring to his
sisters as ‘Dear Isabel’ and ‘Dear Margaret,’ she had never been known
to accord their brother any such prefix. Not even to herself would she
admit that the conflict between them, and its happy termination, had
given him a particular place in her affections.

‘My dear Randal—how extremely kind!’

He had his customary smile for her, but it was a fleeting one. The
ritual of their meeting proceeded.

‘Your dear mother is well? I had a letter from her only last week. She
is a most faithful correspondent. I think you will find this a
comfortable chair.’

The smile showed again for a moment.

‘If you have heard from my mother you have had all our news. Margaret is
well, Isabel is well, Margaret’s last long-legged brat is shooting up.
And now let us put the family on the shelf. I want to talk to you. Have
you—perhaps I oughtn’t to ask it, but I do—have you had any
communication from Rietta Cray?’

Miss Silver’s hands paused on the thin strip of knitting which
represented, embryonically, the back of little Josephine’s woolly
jacket. She gave her faint dry cough and said,

‘Why do you ask?’

‘Because I very much want to know. She rang me up and asked me about
you. I hoped you would have heard from her.’

The busy needles moved again. She said,

‘I have.’

‘You have seen her?’

‘Yes, Randal.’

‘What do you make of it all?’

She lifted her eyes and looked at him steadily.

‘What do you make of it yourself?’

He got up out of his chair and stood half turned away from her, looking
down into the fire.

‘She is quite incapable——’ He had neither voice nor words to complete
the sentence.

Miss Silver said, ‘Quite so. But there might be a strong case against
her. She is aware of that herself.’

He said, ‘Damnable——’ and again had no more words.

Miss Silver failed to reprove him for the one which he had used. She
continued to knit. After a little while she said,

‘There is something which I think you ought to know—in your private
capacity.’

He pushed a log with his foot.

‘I haven’t got a private capacity. I’m a policeman.’

She coughed.

‘You are Chief Constable. You would not, I imagine, find it necessary to
impart everything you knew to a subordinate.’

He had a wry smile for that.

‘Jesuitry!’ Then, before she could summon up the look with which she had
been used to quell him in the schoolroom, he went on in a voice quite
broken away from its habitual control. ‘I’d better make a clean breast
of it. You always do know everything whether one tells you or not, so
it’s just as well to make a virtue of necessity. Rietta is completely
incapable of harming anyone, but she is also completely incapable of
defending herself at the expense of someone she loves.’

Miss Silver answered this very directly. She did, in fact, justify his
assertion that she always knew everything by answering what he had
merely implied.

‘You are afraid that Mr. Carr Robertson is the guilty person, and that
Miss Cray will screen him at the risk of incurring suspicion.’

He drove hard at the fire with his foot. A torrent of sparks rushed up.
He said,

‘Yes.’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked.

‘I think I can relieve your mind. I was, in fact, about to do so. I have
had no opportunity of questioning Mr. Carr, but one thing you may rely
upon—Miss Cray has a very strong reason for being sure that he is
innocent.’

‘What reason?’

‘A most convincing one. In fact, one may say, the only one which could
carry complete conviction. He thinks she did it.’

Startled into turning quite round, Randal March said,

‘_What!_’

Miss Silver reflected that the scholastic profession was a discouraging
one. How many times had she corrected such an interjection in the
schoolroom, offering instead the politer ‘What did you say?’ She
continued without comment.

‘Mr. Carr was at first quite sure that Miss Cray had done it. He did, in
fact, come into her presence with the words “Why did you do it?” Even
after he had heard all that she had to say, Miss Cray is of the opinion
that he is still in doubt. This is naturally very painful to her, but it
does relieve her mind with regard to his having any connection with the
crime.’

Resting both hands on the mantelpiece and staring down into the fire,
March said,

‘Then it was Carr who brought the raincoat back from Melling House.’

She said very composedly, ‘You will not expect me to answer that.’

‘You needn’t—it answers itself. He was with Elizabeth Moore about ten
minutes to ten. He took Melling House on his way home and brought the
raincoat away. That means he either killed James Lessiter or found him
dead.’

She said,

‘I do not believe that he killed him. Miss Cray is very sure that he did
not. She had to labour hard to shake his belief that she herself had
done so.’

He went on looking down into the fire.

‘What is your own feeling? Do you believe he didn’t do it?’

‘Miss Cray is positive upon that point.’

He said, ‘Oh, well——.’ Then he straightened up and went over to where
he had left a small attaché case. He opened it, took out a sheaf of
papers, and brought them to her.

‘You had better read the statements and see what you make of them.’

‘Thank you, Randal.’

He went back to his chair and watched her while she read. Her small,
neat features remained expressionless. She made no remark, and never
once looked up. When she had finished, March said,

‘There’s a later development—you’d better hear that too. The Mayhews’
son is known to have been down here on the night of the murder. He is an
unsatisfactory lad and has been in trouble with the police. He arrived
by the six-thirty train and borrowed a bicycle in Lenton—which explains
why Mrs. Mayhew went home early. Her husband had forbidden him the
house. We have no absolute proof that he was at Melling House, but there
isn’t any reasonable doubt about it. Mrs. Mayhew denies the whole thing,
and says she hasn’t seen him for six months. It is quite certain that
she is lying. And four sixteenth-century figures representing the
Seasons which stood on the study mantelpiece are missing. Rietta says
they were there when she left at a quarter past nine. She also says they
were made of solid gold.’

‘My dear Randal!’

He nodded.

‘A nice bright red herring, isn’t it? Or is it?’

‘It is extremely interesting. What is your view?’

He frowned.

‘I don’t know. Drake, who has been running the case against Rietta and
Carr very hard, shows his versatility by producing a theory that Cyril
had been put up to steal these valuable antiques, was caught out, and
had recourse to the poker. I can’t make that square with the facts. The
figures were on the mantelpiece, and Lessiter was sitting at his
writing-table when he was hit over the head. He had his back to the
fireplace, and the blow was struck from behind. You can’t square that
with Cyril Mayhew being caught in the act of stealing four gold figures.
But there is another possibility. You’ve got a plan of the room
there—look at it. The door at which Mrs. Mayhew listened is in line
with the fireplace. That is to say, it would be behind Lessiter’s back
as he sat at the table. Cyril could have opened that door, as his mother
did, without being heard. He may not even have had to open it—she may
have left it ajar. He could have come in in his stocking feet, reached
for the poker, and hit Lessiter over the head with it, all without being
seen or heard.’

‘Extremely shocking.’

He frowned more deeply still.

‘It could have been done. The trouble is that I can’t persuade myself
that it _was_ done.’

Miss Silver gave a thoughtful cough.

‘It is certainly difficult to see why the young man should go out of his
way to do murder. He had only to wait for Mr. Lessiter to retire, when
he could have removed the figures without this quite unnecessary
bloodshed.’

‘You’ve hit the nail on the head—you always do! I can think of a dozen
reasons for the theft, but not one for the murder. However badly I want
a ram in the thicket, I can’t persuade myself that Cyril Mayhew is going
to fill the bill. He may or may not have come down to steal the figures.
He may or may not have found Lessiter dead. He may or may not have then
yielded to the sudden bright idea that all that gold might just as well
be in his pocket.’

Her needles moved rhythmically.

‘What I cannot understand, Randal, is why such valuable ornaments should
have been left out upon the study mantelpiece in what was practically an
unused house. Mrs. Lessiter has been dead for two years. Mr. Lessiter
had not been near the place for over twenty.’

‘Yes, it’s a bit casual, but Mrs. Lessiter was like that.’ He told her
what Rietta had said about the insurance, and then continued, ‘I asked
Mrs. Mayhew just now, and she says the figures were put away at the back
of one of the pantry cupboards after Mrs. Lessiter died, but she got
them out again before Lessiter came down because they belonged to the
study mantelpiece and she thought he would miss them.’

Miss Silver said, ‘I see——’ She knitted briskly. ‘Randal, what was Mr.
Lessiter doing when he was killed? Was he writing?’

He gave her a curious look.

‘Not so far as we can ascertain. He had obviously been clearing up—the
fireplace was choked with burnt stuff. On the writing-table itself there
was only one paper—the old will leaving everything to Rietta. It had
been scorched down one side and is rather badly stained. All the pens
and pencils were in the pen-rack. All the writing-table drawers were
shut.’

‘Then what was he doing at the writing-table?’

‘I don’t know.’

She looked at him in her most serious manner.

‘I think it may be very important to find out.’

‘You think——’

‘I think there is a suggestion that some paper is missing. If so, it
must be of vital importance. It may have been abstracted by the
murderer. It certainly cannot have disappeared by itself. It is also
quite certain that a man does not sit at his writing-table without any
occupation. He must either be writing, reading, or sorting papers. The
only paper before him was this short will. But both Mrs. Mayhew and Miss
Cray make some slight reference to another paper. Miss Cray mentioned it
to me.’

‘What paper?’

‘The memorandum referred to by Mrs. Mayhew in reporting what she had
overheard of the interview between Mr. Lessiter and Miss Cray. She
reports him as saying that he had come across her letters when he was
looking for a memorandum his mother had left for him.’

‘There is nothing to show that he had it out on the table.’

‘Not in Mrs. Mayhew’s statement. But in conversation with me Miss Cray
did refer to it. I asked her if she knew what was in it, and she replied
that she believed it to contain information as to certain dispositions
Mrs. Lessiter had made.’

‘Did she say that this paper was on the table during her interview with
Lessiter?’

She weighed this thoughtfully.

‘Not in so many words. I certainly received that impression.’

‘It may be important——’ He paused, and added, ‘very important. Will
you call her up and ask her whether the memorandum was actually there,
in sight?’

‘Yes, I can do that. The telephone is in the dining-room. You had better
come with me.’

Rietta Cray answered the call in her deep voice. No one would have
guessed with what shrinking she had lifted the receiver. Miss Silver’s
voice brought relief.

‘I hope I have not disturbed you. In describing your interview of the
other night you mentioned a certain memorandum. Did you actually see
this paper?’

The scene came back. James, with his smiling malice and his talk of her
letters—‘Love’s young dream’ ... And then, ‘The memorandum my mother
left me ... some people would be glad if they could be certain it was in
ashes like your letters ...’ Catherine’s voice on the telephone—‘He’s
found that damned memorandum.’

The reassurance was all gone. She felt the buffeting of opposing
loyalties—Catherine—Carr. It was characteristic of Rietta Cray that
she did not think of herself. She tried to steady her thoughts, to
determine just how much she could safely say.

Miss Silver repeated her question.

‘Did you see this paper?’

She said, ‘Yes.’

‘Can you describe it?’

No harm in answering that.

‘There were several sheets of foolscap. They had been folded up to go in
an envelope, and taken out again. The envelope was lying there, and the
foolscap half unfolded. I recognized the writing.’

Miss Silver said, ‘Thank you,’ and hung up. She turned to face Randal
March.

‘You heard?’

He said, ‘Yes.’




                                 THIRTY


Mrs. Crook brought in tea, and reported afterwards to her friend Mrs.
Grover that the Chief Constable was ever such a nice-looking gentleman
and ever so polite, ‘but no appetite for his tea, and the scones were
lovely though I say it myself.’ In these circumstances the meal was not
prolonged. When March refused a third cup of tea, Miss Silver said in a
deprecating manner,

‘I should like to ask you to do me a favour, Randal.’

He smiled.

‘What is it—the half of my kingdom?’

‘I hope I should never ask you for what you would find it impossible to
give.’

‘You alarm me! Let me know the worst!’

She gave him her own charming smile.

‘It is really a very simple matter. I would very much like to see the
study at Melling House.’

‘Well, it will make talk, you know.’

‘My dear Randal, do you imagine that people are not talking now?’

‘Not for a moment. But I am not anxious that they should talk about a
triangle consisting of you and me and Rietta Cray.’

‘It is quite impossible to stop people gossiping—especially in a
village.’

‘What do you hope to effect? Drake is highly efficient. Everything will
have been gone over with a microscope.’

‘I have no doubt of it.’

Under her mildly obstinate gaze he gave way.

‘Very well. You’re taking an unfair advantage of me, you know. I am too
anxious about this case to be sure of what I ought to do.’

‘My dear Randal——’

He pushed back his chair and got up.

‘We had better make the best of a bad job,’ he said.

Mayhew, answering the door a little later, peered out. It was a dark
afternoon, and the light on in the hall. He ought to be able to see who
it was in the car, but he couldn’t. He blinked up at the Chief Constable
and wondered what had brought him back again. Dreadful times when you
had to brace yourself up every time the front door bell rang.

He said, ‘Yes, sir?’ in an enquiring tone, and went on bracing himself.

It appeared that no blow was about to fall. March was saying,

‘I’m sorry to trouble you again. I just want to go through to the study.
Nothing’s been done to the room yet, I suppose?’

‘No, sir. Superintendent Drake told me they’d finished and we could get
on with it, but I thought I’d leave it till the morning.’

‘Oh, well, I shan’t be long. I’ve a lady with me. She may find it cold
waiting in the car. I’ll just ask her if she would prefer to come in.’

With this discreet piece of camouflage, March ran down the steps again.
His voice came back to Mayhew at the door.

‘It’s cold for you here. Perhaps you would rather come in. I won’t be
any longer than I can help.’

Miss Silver emerged. Mayhew knew her at once—the little governessy
person who was staying with Mrs. Voycey. Mrs. Crook had a tale of her
being some kind of a detective. Maybe she had a fancy to see the room
where a murder had been done. Maybe not. It wasn’t his business. He’d
enough on his mind without troubling about other people’s affairs.
Anyway she was coming in with the Chief Constable.

He showed them to the study, switched on the lights, and went over to
draw the curtains. Then he went across the hall, and through the baize
door to the housekeeper’s room where his wife sat dabbing her eyes and
staring at the unwashed tea-things.

Randal March gave him time to get away before he said,

‘Well, here you are. What do you make of it? The stain on the
writing-table shows you where he fell forward. It won’t come out. The
grate was choked with burnt paper. Drake had it removed and gone
through, but there was nothing left. If your memorandum went that way
it’s gone for good.’

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘I do not imagine that the murderer would have risked waiting to burn it
here. The ash came from Miss Cray’s letters.’

His face was quite impassive.

‘You are probably right. There was a full set of her prints on the
mantelshelf—none anywhere else. If Carr was here, he did not leave any.
Mrs. Mayhew’s prints are on the outer knob of the door into the hall.
That’s where she stood and listened. The handle of the poker had been
wiped clean, and so had the outer handle and edge of the glass door to
the garden. The inner handle had Lessiter’s prints.’

‘Yes—he opened the door to Miss Cray.’

‘I forgot to say that a stained half-burnt handkerchief was found on the
top of the ash in the fireplace. It is Lessiter’s own, and is presumably
the one he lent Miss Cray when he noticed the scratch on her wrist. That
is about all I can tell you.’

She went over to the window and parted the curtains.

‘Miss Cray found this door shut when she arrived. She knocked, and Mr.
Lessiter let her in. She went away in a hurry, and may have left it
ajar. I shall be glad if you will help me with a little experiment. I am
going outside. When I have shut the door, will you go over to the other
side of the writing-table and say anything you like in your natural
voice?’

‘All right ... Be careful—there are two steps.’

When the door had closed behind her he crossed the room and stood before
the empty hearth.

‘Is this what you want? Can you hear me at all? One feels a good deal of
a fool, saying something just for the sake of saying it.’

The door opened and the curtains were divided. The wallflower on Miss
Silver’s hat appeared.

‘No more than on many social occasions, my dear Randal. I could hear you
perfectly.’

‘Then come in out of the cold, my dear Miss Silver.’ He said the last
words with a disarming smile.

She shook her head.

‘Not just yet.’

She disappeared again. A cold draught blew in. Coming out upon the
steps, he found her standing on the path below in the act of producing a
torch from her capacious handbag.

‘What are you looking at?’

She said, ‘This.’

After the brightly lighted room the dusk baffled him. She switched on
the torch and directed its disc of light upon a small patch of earth at
the extreme edge of the lower step. He said,

‘What of it?’

‘It has dropped from someone’s shoe.’

‘The men have been up and down.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘It is soft black earth mixed with white particles. I think you will
find them to be lime. The gardener who works at Cecilia Voycey’s has
been spreading lime upon the roots of her lilac bushes this week. Lilacs
apparently require a great deal of lime. I am not a gardener, but that
is what Cecilia tells me.’

‘Yes.’

‘The path leading to these steps is of flagged stone, but here, where
the shrubbery ends by the window, there are lilac bushes. Let us see if
their roots have been dressed with lime.’

He came down to where she stood and parted the bushes. The torch sent a
most efficient beam into the opening, picking out every small twig and
passing to and fro across the earth below. It had been newly dug.
Everywhere on the soft turned surface the light picked up those white
particles. It picked up more than that—footprints deeply sunk in the
soil.

March exclaimed, reached back with his left hand, and took the torch. It
was plain enough that someone had stood among the lilacs. The deepest
prints were farthest in. Someone had stood there. Four prints in
all—one going in, one coming out, and the two deep ones nearest to the
wall. They were the prints of a woman’s shoe.

Randal March stood back and switched off the torch. His mind was dark.
He had nothing to say.

Miss Silver spoke.

‘You are troubling yourself unnecessarily. Miss Cray has a well-shaped
foot at least two sizes larger than the one which made those prints. She
is a tall woman.’

The darkness passed. He said,

‘I’m a fool. As you probably guess, I’m—vulnerable.’

She said, ‘Yes,’ very kindly. And then, ‘This is important evidence,
Randal. It means that a woman who was not Miss Cray stood here among the
bushes and afterwards ascended the steps. This would seem to indicate
that she had suddenly to find some place of concealment. Let us say that
she had come up here to see Mr. Lessiter, that she heard someone else
approaching, that she stepped back amongst the bushes. It may have been
Miss Cray who disturbed her. The thought then suggests itself that she
may have mounted the steps and listened at the door. She could, in that
case, have overheard the greater part of Miss Cray’s interview with Mr.
Lessiter. We must not assume that she had any motive for wishing him
dead. But if—I say if—she had such a motive, how suggestive that
conversation would be. It would inform her that Mr. Carr Robertson had
just identified Mr. Lessiter as the seducer of his wife, and that he had
rushed out of the house in a state so alarming to Miss Cray as to bring
her up to Melling House to warn Mr. Lessiter. She would also learn of
the existence of the will benefiting Miss Cray. If you desired to commit
murder, could you hope for a situation better calculated to enable you
to do so with impunity?’

He laughed a little unsteadily.

‘Probably not. And now, I suppose, you are going to give me a
description of the hypothetical murderess.’

She said very composedly,

‘Not at present. I think I had better leave you now. You will wish to
communicate with the Superintendent and have casts made of these
footprints. It is fortunate that no rain has fallen since Wednesday, but
it is never safe to trust to a continuance of fine weather. I think it
possible that a very careful search would disclose particles of lime on
the upper step, and on the study carpet if this person did indeed enter
the room. Have you a torch—or shall I lend you mine?’

‘I have one in the car.’

‘Then I will leave you. The air is quite pleasant now. I shall enjoy the
walk.’

Randal March went back into the study and rang up Lenton police station.




                               THIRTY-ONE


Jonathan Moore set down his cup, said, ‘No, thank you, my dear’ in
rather an absent voice, and continued to gaze vaguely at his niece
Elizabeth and at the gloomy young man to whom she had, rather
precipitately he considered, re-engaged herself. The radiant air of a
betrothal was entirely absent. He might be out of touch with the
world—it pleased him to think so, because there was a good deal about
this post-war world that he disliked—but it was borne in upon him that
Carr Robertson was being talked about, and that Elizabeth had been
precipitate. The quality of the look with which he now regarded Carr
began to resemble that with which he was wont to consider some object of
doubtful authenticity. True, he had known Carr for a long time, but look
at the pedigree he had got with that Buhl writing-table! Fifty years in
the one family, and a receipted bill from the old marquis with the
guarantee of another hundred years before that. Yet at some time in that
hundred and fifty years a fake had been substituted. There are times in
a man’s life when he may turn to fakery. Conscience slips, the pressure
of events comes down hard upon a weak spot, and the honest man turns
rogue. Easier still to picture the sudden splintering of control,
followed by a quick protective build-up to hide the smash.

Elizabeth could read his thoughts so well that it was with a good deal
of relief that she saw him shake his head doubtfully, get up, and go out
of the room. As the sound of his feet retreated, Carr said,

‘Not much doubt about what Jonathan thinks.’

She gave him a strange look. Her eyes were always bright. They had now
the added brilliance of unshed tears. She said,

‘Oh, yes, there’s plenty of doubt. If there wasn’t—’

‘I wouldn’t be here?’

She nodded.

‘Something like that. Officially forbidden the house and I’d be getting
out at the back to meet you in a purlieu.’

‘Would you?’

Her voice had all the sweetness in the world as she said,

‘Yes, my darling.’

It brought him to his knees beside her chair. Without word or kiss he
pressed his head against her shoulder, holding her close. They stayed
like that.

When he raised his head it was to say,

‘Holderness has changed his mind. He says I’ll have to make a statement
at the inquest but I’d better not wait for it to be dragged out of me.
He thinks it will make a better impression if I go to the police now.’

‘Are you going to?’

‘I don’t know. I wanted to talk to you about it. It seems to me the
moment I make that statement they’re bound to arrest me—or Rietta.’ His
face went hard and bleak as he repeated the last words—‘_Or Rietta_.’

‘Carr!’

‘The man was dead by half past ten, a couple of hours after I had
threatened him. Sometime in those two hours I was there, and Rietta was
there. Sometime in those two hours he was killed. And I fetched away
Rietta’s raincoat soaked with blood. The fact that it wasn’t really
Rietta’s coat but an old one of mine just helps to distribute the
probable guilt—Rietta gets half a million, and I get my revenge. The
scales are about equal there. I should think it’s fifty-fifty as between
murder for money and murder for revenge.’

He was still kneeling beside her, but drawn back from touching her. She
made no attempt to bridge the gap between them, only looked at him and
said thoughtfully,

‘You think Rietta did it—’

He drew back farther still, got up, and stood there with his hands
clenched.

‘I don’t think anything—I can’t. I can just see the facts—I can’t deal
with them at all. If you put those facts before a thousand people, at
least nine hundred and ninety-nine of them are going to say that if
Rietta didn’t kill him, I did. We shan’t have a thousand opinions to
spread the chances, we shall have twelve. It’s very long odds they’d
make it unanimous.’

Her soft wordless protest fired him.

‘What’s the use? It lies between the two of us. If I didn’t do it,
Rietta did. Well, I didn’t—so what?’

‘Carr, you don’t really think—’

‘I told you I couldn’t, and I can’t. When I try, it always comes out
like that—Rietta or me—me or Rietta.’

‘And when you don’t think, Carr?’

‘I get quite long sane patches when I know she couldn’t have done it.’

‘I’m glad you call them sane.’

The dark look had come back. He said,

‘But we’re not sane any longer, my dear—we’re in a nightmare. When
you’re in Rome you do as the Romans do—_à la guerre comme à la guerre_,
and all the rest of the proverbs. What in the name of all that is
damnable has sanity got to do with our nightmare?’

She got up and came to him.

‘Well, I think it’s what is going to pull us through.’

‘_Us_?’

‘Yes, darling.’

His hand closed so hard upon her arm that she found a bruise there
afterwards.

‘If I was sure about Rietta I’d make this damned statement and be done
with it.’

‘I’m sure.’

‘Why?’

‘Oh, because—’ She broke off with something that was half a laugh, and
half a sob. ‘Oh, Carr, please wake up! It must be a very bad dream in
which you can think that Rietta could creep up behind someone and hit
him over the head with a poker. You couldn’t let it worry you for a
moment if you weren’t fast asleep. Wake up! It’s just too silly for
words.’




                               THIRTY-TWO


Miss Silver walked down the drive. The air really was quite pleasant.
Cold, of course, but she was warmly clad—her tippet so cosy, her coat
of such good strong cloth. She felt a sober gratitude for these and all
her other blessings. There had been a time when she had expected to
serve all her life in other people’s houses with no prospect but that of
an indigent old age. Now, thanks under Providence to her change of
profession, she was in an enviable position of independence. She had a
comfortable flat, an attentive and devoted maid, and an insurance policy
which would enable her to continue these comforts.

It was really dark under the trees—not quite dark enough to necessitate
the use of that excellent torch, a present from a friend and devoted
admirer Sergeant Frank Abbott of Scotland Yard recently promoted to the
rank of Inspector. The shrubbery was somewhat overgrown. She considered
the sad condition of neglect to which labour shortages and heavy
taxation had reduced so many fine country places. During her lifetime
the whole way of living had changed. The good things of life were being
spread more evenly, but it was sad to watch the passing of so much that
was beautiful.

Just before she came to the two tall pillars which marked the entrance
she turned to the right, took the narrow path which led to the Gate
House, and rang the bell. Catherine Welby, opening the door, permitted
herself to look a little more surprised than she would have done if her
visitor had been anyone but Mrs. Voycey’s dowdy old school friend. She
could not for the life of her think why Miss Silver should be paying her
a visit—elderly ex-governesses were not in the least in her line. She
prepared to be bored, and with not at all too good a grace.

As it turned out, boredom was not the sensation which this interview was
to arouse. Miss Silver, passing before her into the sitting-room,
regarded it with interest. Surroundings are often an index to character.
She noticed the brocade curtains, the pastel colouring, the quality of
the furniture, all good, some of it valuable. Over the mantelpiece a
round Dutch mirror with a cut-glass border charmingly reflected the
scene. It reflected Catherine in a blue dress which matched her eyes.

Miss Silver seated herself and said gravely,

‘You are wondering what has brought me here, Mrs. Welby.’

‘Oh, no.’ Catherine’s tone was light—the small change of social
observance so carelessly scattered as to come very near to rudeness.

Loosening the tippet at her neck, Miss Silver said,

‘I think so.’

Catherine said nothing. She too had seated herself. Her beautiful dark
blue eyes held an enquiring expression, the arch of her eyebrows was a
little raised. She really might just as well have said, ‘What the devil
do you want?’ and had done with it.

Miss Silver did not keep her waiting.

‘I am here because Miss Rietta Cray has asked for my professional
assistance.’

‘Has she?’ The eyebrows rose a little higher.

‘Yes, Mrs. Welby. You are an old friend of Miss Cray’s.’

‘Oh, yes.’ Catherine leaned sideways, took a cigarette from a
tortoiseshell case, and struck a match.

Miss Silver coughed after the manner of a teacher who calls the class to
order.

‘It will not have escaped you that Mr. Lessiter’s death has placed Miss
Cray in a somewhat serious position.’

The tip of the cigarette glowed. Catherine blew out a cloud of smoke.

‘I shouldn’t think it had escaped anyone.’

‘You are perfectly correct. As an old friend of Miss Cray’s, you will,
of course, be willing to do all that is in your power to clear her.’

‘I’m afraid there’s nothing I can do.’

‘I think there is. As you are no doubt aware, Miss Cray was called to
the telephone at twenty past eight on Wednesday night. She talked to her
caller for ten minutes, and almost immediately afterwards went up to
Melling House, where she had an interview with Mr. Lessiter. You were
the caller, were you not?’

Catherine drew at her cigarette. When she spoke her tone was openly
rude.

‘What put that into your head?’

‘I think it would be very unwise of you to deny it. The girl at the
exchange will no doubt remember the call. She is probably familiar with
your voice and that of Miss Cray.’

The blue haze between them thickened. Catherine said equably.

‘If she says I called Rietta up, then I did. I very often do. I’m alone
here—it passes the time. Anyhow I suppose you have asked Rietta. She
would know.’

Miss Silver was sitting upon the couch. There was a bright wood fire and
the room was warm. She removed her yellow tippet and laid it beside her.
In some purely feminine manner this small incident stirred Catherine’s
temper. In her own mind she stigmatized the tippet as a mangy cat and
resented its contact with her sofa. That a woman who wore a thing like
that should thrust herself into her house and cross-examine her about a
private conversation was the ultimate limit.

Miss Silver’s reply did nothing to allay her anger.

‘Miss Cray is under suspicion. It would therefore be important to
corroborate any account she might give.’

‘Very well—give me Rietta’s account, and I’ll give you my
corroboration.’

Since Miss Cray had resolutely refused to give any account of the
conversation, this was unfortunately not practicable. Miss Silver
employed the old device of the red herring.

‘In the statements which have been made there are references to a
memorandum left by Mrs. Lessiter for the information of her son. I
believe it was concerned with some disposition of her effects.’

Catherine said, ‘I really don’t know.’

The haze hung between them, but something had happened. It would have
been difficult to say just what it was—the tensing of a muscle, the
momentary halting of a breath, the slightest involuntary movement of a
finger. Miss Silver had always found it useful to give particular
attention to the hands of anyone whose response to questioning was
inclined towards reticence.

The hand with which Catherine was holding her cigarette remained steady.
If the fingers pressed a little more closely, it was a movement
impossible to detect. But the little finger had jerked.

Miss Silver said,

‘I believe that to have been the case. I should be very glad, Mrs.
Welby, if you could bring yourself to be frank with me.’

‘Frank?’ Catherine laughed. ‘I really don’t know what you mean!’

‘Then I will tell you. Mr. Lessiter had been absent for more than twenty
years. He met Miss Cray here, in your house, and walked home with her.
The subject of his conversation was the disposition of his mother’s
effects. On the evening of the murder you had a conversation with Miss
Cray which lasted for ten minutes. Was that also a conversation with
regard to the disposition of Mrs. Lessiter’s property?’

Catherine laughed.

‘Why don’t you ask Rietta?’

‘I am asking you. I believe that some dispute was going on between you
and Mr. Lessiter. These things are in the air in a village. It is common
knowledge that Mrs. Lessiter lent you the furniture of this house.’

Catherine blew out a cloud of smoke.

‘She gave me some furniture—yes. I don’t know what business it is of
yours.’

‘Miss Cray has engaged me to protect her interests. It is clear that
there are two possible points of view involved. I have heard that the
furniture was lent—you say that it was given. Mr. Lessiter talked to
Miss Cray about the disposition of his mother’s effects. On the night of
the murder you called Miss Cray up to talk about a matter of business.
Later that evening she had a sharp difference of opinion with Mr.
Lessiter over a business matter which involved a friend. Can you be
surprised that I put two and two together and arrive at the conclusion
that Mr. Lessiter was taking the first point of view? He believed that
the furniture had been lent. He endeavoured to obtain corroboration from
Miss Cray. At some time during the hours immediately preceding his death
he discovered a memorandum in his mother’s writing. I think it is quite
clear that this memorandum supported his view. I believe he rang you up
and said so, and that you then rang Miss Cray. Later on, during her
interview with Mr. Lessiter, Miss Cray recurred to the subject and
endeavoured to change some course of action which he was contemplating.
I think that what he intended must have been of a nature to cause her
serious distress. She told me that their quarrel was about business, and
that the business concerned a friend. You cannot be surprised if I
conclude that you were the friend. The whole sequence of events is then
explained.’

Catherine Welby had not Rietta Cray’s quick temper. She could take a
wound as well as give one. But all through the interview anger had been
rising in her, retarded by caution, checked once or twice by fear, but
still rising. It went cold in her now. She felt as if she had just been
neatly dissected, her thoughts, her motives, the movements of her mind
laid bare. It was not alone the few formal sentences, it was the feeling
that this old maid’s small, shrewd eyes did really see what she was
thinking. She even had the strangest feeling that it might be a relief
to let go—to open her mind of her own free will, unpack her thoughts,
and spread them out to be looked at, weighed, and judged. It was only
for the shortest possible space of time. These moments come—and go. We
take them, or we let them go.

Catherine Welby let her moment go. She had no idea that in letting it go
she had committed herself to irremediable disaster. She was not hurried
by anger. She took her time before she said,

‘You’ve got it all very nicely settled, haven’t you? I wouldn’t dream of
disturbing the picture.’ She got to her feet and dropped the stub of her
cigarette into a jade ash-tray. ‘And now perhaps you’ll go.’

Miss Silver was very well qualified to deal with insolence. She regarded
Catherine in a manner which relegated her to the nursery—a badly
conducted nursery in which the child had not been taught her manners.
Rising without hurry, she put on the elderly tippet and fastened up her
coat. When she had reached the door she said soberly,

‘If you should change your mind, you will know where to find me.’




                              THIRTY-THREE


As Miss Silver emerged between the pillars which marked the entrance to
the drive of Melling House, a light was flashed in her face. It was a
little startling, but since there was an immediate murmur of apology in
a young man’s voice, she concluded that the owner of what appeared to be
a bicycle-lamp had merely been anxious to identify a friend. In words
rather more familiar than she herself would have employed, it was a case
of ‘Boy meets girl.’ She crossed the road and found her way along the
edge of the Green to the path which would take her back to Mrs.
Voycey’s.

When she first heard the footsteps behind her she gave them no
attention. A nervous person would not adopt the detective profession. It
did not occur to Miss Silver to be nervous. There was enough light for
her to distinguish her path from the Green it traversed. She was not,
therefore, using her torch. The footsteps continued behind her.
Presently they drew nearer, and a voice said,

‘I—I beg your pardon—’

It was the same voice which had apologized for flashing the bicycle-lamp
in her face, a young voice and embarrassed.

Miss Silver stood still, allowed the footsteps to come up with her, and
said,

‘What is it?’

The bicycle-lamp must have been switched off, for all she could see was
a tall black shadow. The voice said,

‘I beg your pardon, but you are staying with Mrs. Voycey, aren’t you?
Your name is Miss Silver—’

‘What can I do for you?’

‘I really do beg your pardon—I hope I didn’t startle you. I’m Allan
Grover. My father and mother have the Grocery Stores—I think you’ve met
them. I’m in Mr. Holderness’s office in Lenton.’

Miss Silver began to be very much interested. This was the young man
Cecilia Voycey had talked about, the clever boy who had won
scholarships. She remembered that there was something about an
infatuation for Catherine Welby who was, as Cecilia had not failed to
point out, more than old enough to be his mother. Since this had never
yet prevented a young man of twenty from falling in love with a pretty
and experienced woman, Miss Silver had dismissed it as irrelevant. She
began to wonder why he had been waiting outside Catherine’s house. Was
it just the familiar case of the moth and the candle, and if so, why was
he now following herself? She said,

‘Yes—Mrs. Voycey has spoken of you. What can I do for you, Mr. Grover?’

He was standing quite close to her now. His voice continued to show
embarrassment.

‘I wanted to see you—’

Miss Silver said in rather a surprised manner.

‘To see me, Mr. Grover? You could not know that I should be at the Gate
House.’

‘No—no—I didn’t—I couldn’t. I was going to see Mrs. Welby—but I had
been wanting to talk to you—and when you came out it seemed like an
opportunity—’

Even in his embarrassment she was struck with his manner of speech.
There was no trace of the village accent. It is not every clever boy who
is so adaptable. She said gravely,

‘Why did you want to talk to me?’

He came to the point with a simple directness which pleased her.

‘You are staying with Mrs. Voycey. Her housekeeper, Mrs. Crook, is a
friend of my mother’s. I have heard that you are a detective, and that
you are advising Miss Cray.’

‘Yes, Mr. Grover? Shall we walk? It is chilly standing here, and we may
be remarked.’

They moved on together, Miss Silver setting a slower pace than she was
used to. Allan Grover began to pour out what he had to say.

‘I haven’t known what to do. I thought of coming round to Mrs.
Voycey’s—but then she would be there, and Mrs. Crook would know. I
wanted to catch you alone, but I didn’t see how it was going to be done.
Then when you came out of the Gate House I thought if I let the
opportunity slip I’d never get another, so I followed you. It’s about
Cyril—Cyril Mayhew.’

‘Yes, Mr. Grover?’

‘Miss Silver—this is just between you and me, isn’t it? Because I’m not
supposed to talk about office business, but I had to go up to Melling
House with Mr. Holderness this morning—a matter of checking up on the
inventory with the police to see if anything was missing. Well, right
away we found that there were four gilt figures gone from the study
mantelpiece.’

‘Yes—they represented the four Seasons, did they not?’

‘You know about them?’

‘Oh, yes, Mr. Grover.’

‘Then you know they think Cyril took them.’

‘Do you know of any reason why he should have done so?’

‘I’m quite sure that he didn’t. That’s what I wanted to tell you.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘Do you know whether they had any special value?’

He hesitated, and then came out with,

‘They’re down in the inventory as “Four gilt figures.” ’

‘Is that all you know about them?’

‘No, it isn’t. I used to go up to the house to play with Cyril. Mrs.
Lessiter was fond of my mother. I’ve been in the study often and seen
those figures. Cyril always said they were gold. We used to make up
stories about them and say they were pirates’ treasure.’

It occurred to Miss Silver that he was not making things any better for
Cyril Mayhew. She said in the tone of an earnest enquirer,

‘And are they gold?’

Allan Grover laughed.

‘Oh, no, of course not! That was just talk. They wouldn’t have been left
out like that if they had been gold.’

‘But they were, Mr. Grover.’

‘Who says so?’

‘Miss Cray for one. I think the Mayhews are aware of the fact, and in
all probability so is your friend Cyril.’

He actually put his hand on her arm.

‘Miss Silver, Cyril isn’t mixed up in this—I swear he isn’t. He may
have been down here that night—they say he was—but as for taking those
figures or laying a finger on Mr. Lessiter, I’ll swear he didn’t. That’s
what I wanted to see you about. I’ll swear Cyril hadn’t anything to do
with it.’

‘What makes you so sure about that?’

His hand was still on her arm. Its pressure increased.

‘Just knowing Cyril—that’s all. If you knew him like I do you’d be just
as sure as I am. I’ve thought it all out, if you’ll just listen to me.’

‘I shall be very pleased to listen to you, Mr. Grover.’

‘Well then, it’s this way. By all accounts Mr. Lessiter was in his study
all that Wednesday evening. They say Cyril came down by the six-thirty
and borrowed Ernie White’s bike to come out here. Mrs. Mayhew says he
didn’t come, but I daresay that’s what she’s bound to say. Well then,
suppose he took those figures—when did he take them? If it was early
on, Mr. Lessiter was there, wasn’t he? And if he was out of the room for
a minute he’d have been bound to notice they were gone when he came
back—gold things, showing up like that against the black marble.’

Miss Silver said,

‘They were still there at a quarter past nine when Miss Cray left.’

‘Well, there you are. They say Mr. Lessiter was killed some time after
nine o’clock. Cyril would never have dared take those figures with him
using the room. And this I can tell you, and I’d swear to it, he’d never
have taken them with Mr. Lessiter lying there dead.’

‘Why do you say that, Mr. Grover?’

‘Because I know Cyril. I don’t say he mightn’t take something that
didn’t belong to him—he—he’d got a weakness that way—but he wouldn’t
do it if he thought it was running any risk. And as for killing anyone
or going into a room where there was a man with his brains beaten out, I
really do know what I’m talking about, and I tell you he just couldn’t
do it at all. I’ve seen him run out of the kitchen with his fingers in
his ears when his mother was going to kill a mouse. And when it came to
rabbiting, or ratting, or anything of that sort, he was worse than a
girl—a drop of blood, and he’d come over sick. I tell you he couldn’t
have gone into that study with Mr. Lessiter dead the way he was, anymore
than he could have taken up the poker and killed him—and I can’t put it
stronger than that. You see, Miss Silver, it isn’t as if there could
have been anything like a struggle. Even a rabbit will bite if it’s
cornered—any creature will. Cyril, he might have hit out with one of
those figures if he’d been caught taking them, but it didn’t happen like
that. Whoever killed Mr. Lessiter, it was someone he was comfortable and
easy with. There he was, sitting up to the writing-table and someone
just behind him over by the fire. You don’t sit that way with anyone
unless you’re easy with them. And whoever it was meant murder. There
wasn’t any struggle. I don’t see how there could even have been a
quarrel. You don’t quarrel with someone like that, sitting with your
back to them, do you? But the one that was behind him, he meant murder,
and he picked up the poker and let him have it. Well, I tell you, Cyril
couldn’t have done that. There are things people can do, and things they
can’t do. I’ve known him all my life, and he couldn’t squash a wasp, let
alone hit a man over the head with a poker. If you told me he’d lifted
some loose change or a shilling’s worth of stamps, I’d believe you, but
murder, or going into a room with a murdered man—well, it’s just plain
nonsense, he couldn’t have done it.’

They had reached the edge of the Green. Miss Silver had only to cross
the road in order to see the welcoming glow from the curtained windows
of Mrs. Voycey’s drawing-room. She paused at the end of the path. Allan
Grover’s hand dropped from her arm. After a moment’s thoughtful silence
she said,

‘You have interested me extremely, Mr. Grover. There is a good deal in
what you say, and I will give it my most careful attention. Goodnight.’




                              THIRTY-FOUR


A good deal later than this Randal March was taking his way home. He was
glad to be done with the day’s business, and very glad to be done with
Superintendent Drake. Drake’s reactions to the footprints discovered by
Miss Silver had been quite extraordinarily irritating. He was mortified,
he was huffed, he took umbrage. He suggested that the footprints might
have been made at any time, and when March pointed out that there had
been heavy rain on Wednesday afternoon, and that they must have been
made since then, he took umbrage all over again. There is, of course,
nothing more trying for a police officer than to have a well
substantiated theory undermined, or to see it tottering to its fall
without being able to give it a sustaining hand. With Rietta Cray and
Carr Robertson as suspects, Drake had been in a state of blissful and
offensive self-satisfaction. It was his first important murder case. He
saw promotion looming. The social position of the suspects ministered
agreeably to his class-consciousness. When Mr. Holderness produced Cyril
Mayhew as a possible alternative he wasn’t pleased—nobody could have
expected him to be pleased—but he put up a very creditable performance
as a fair-minded officer anxious only to come at the truth.

And then completely unrelated footprints of an unknown woman. It was
enough to put any man out of temper, let alone that he knew, and the
Chief Constable knew, that he ought to have found them himself. It
wouldn’t have been so bad if they could have been made out to be Miss
Cray’s footprints, but they couldn’t, and it wasn’t any good trying. He
didn’t need the Chief Constable to point it out to him either. He
remarked with some acerbity that if he’d got to choose between a crime
without a clue at all and one where they were buzzing round like so many
bluebottles, he’d take the first and say thank you. It was one of the
few times during their association that the Chief Constable felt
inclined to agree with him.

Well, the business was over now. The footprints had been photographed by
flashlight, cement had been poured into them to provide casts, and a
tarpaulin spread to protect them from the weather. Randal March was
taking his way home.

He came out on the far side of Melling and drove slowly along a dark,
narrow lane. There was a hedgerow on either side, rather wild and
unkempt, with the black mass of holly breaking it here and there. There
was no one else abroad—no lights of any other car, no low-set gleam of
a bicycle-lamp, no foot-passenger shrinking back against the hedge. The
dark loneliness pleased him. He was more physically tired than he could
remember to have been for years, and his mind was tired to death. To and
fro in it for the last two days his thoughts had paced, struggled, and
rebelled. Even as he strove to order them, to hold the balance between
the prosecution and the defence, to do his job without fear or favour,
he could not be sure that the scale did not tip.

He drove on down the bright path which his headlights made for him, and
wished with all his heart that he could see his way as plainly.

Half a mile out of Melling what should be a prolongation of the lane
becomes the footpath which descends from Rowberry Common, the lane
itself taking an unexpected turn to the left. The beam of the headlights
streaming on to the footpath just before the turn picked up the figure
of a woman. For the moment of time before the car swung round she stood
there dazzled by the glow, her head uncovered, her eyes wide, her face
unnaturally white. It was startling in the extreme—like seeing a
drowned face.

He took the car past the turn, drew up, and walked back. She was moving,
he heard a stone slip from her foot. A relief quite outside reason
flooded over him. He would have confessed to no conscious fear, but the
sound of that sliding pebble was an extraordinarily welcome thing. He
said,

‘Rietta! What are you doing here?’ and saw her come towards him like a
shadow.

She said, ‘I’ve been walking on Rowberry Common. I couldn’t stay
indoors.’

‘You shouldn’t go up there in the dark. It’s got a bad name.’

She said with heart-breaking simplicity,

‘No one would hurt me—I’m too unhappy.’

‘Does that protect one?’

‘Yes. People can’t reach you—you’re all alone——’

‘Rietta, don’t talk like that!’

She said, ‘I’ll go home now.’

She took a step away from him, and something happened. He was a
temperate man in mind and body. He had never before been so swept from
his own control. He couldn’t let her leave him. With a purely
instinctive movement he reached out to stop her. His hands met the rough
cloth of the coat she was wearing. He found that he was holding her.

‘Rietta!’

She said, ‘Oh, let me go!’

‘I can’t. I love you. You do know that, don’t you?’

‘Oh, no!’

‘What’s the good of lies? We might as well speak the truth, if it’s only
for once. You do know I love you.’

‘No——’

‘Stop lying, Rietta! If we can’t do anything else for each other we can
at least speak the truth. If you didn’t know, why did you sit there this
afternoon accusing me with your eyes? Every time I asked you a question
you accused me—every time I sat by and let that damned fellow Drake
cross-examine you, you accused me. If you didn’t know that I loved you,
there wasn’t any reason for it. You knew.’

‘Yes—I knew. It doesn’t matter, does it? It’s like knowing something
that died a long time ago—it’s gone.’

His hands closed hard upon her. She felt the strength in them.

‘What are you talking about? Do you think I would let you go?’

She said on a curious sobbing breath,

‘I’ve—gone——’

In a most horrid and disturbing manner there came back to him the
feeling he had had when he saw her drowned in the glare of the
headlights. His pleasant voice was harsh as he said,

‘Don’t say things like that—I won’t have it! I’m asking you to marry
me.’

‘Are you, Randal? And do we send an announcement to the papers? There
would be some nice headlines, wouldn’t there? Chief Constable weds chief
suspect in Lessiter murder case! No, I suppose they couldn’t say that
before I was arrested. It would be contempt of court or something like
that, wouldn’t it? And once I was arrested I should be the accused.
Randal, why should this have to happen to us? We could have been so
happy.’

A flood of grief broke in her. She didn’t know it was going to happen.
It had hurt her too much when she thought of what might have been. She
had no more pride, no more control. She did not even think of being glad
that it was dark. The tears ran down, and would have done if it had been
broad day.

At first he didn’t know. She stood there quietly under his hands. He had
his own emotions to deal with, and found them hard to curb.

Then one of those hot tears splashed down upon his wrist. He took his
hand from her arm and put it up to her face. The tears ran over it. He
pulled her up close and kissed her, and she kissed him back, not quietly
but with a despairing passion. If this was all they could ever have, let
them take their fill of it.

They might have been alone in the universe, so close that breath and
pulse were one. A single heart-beat shook them both. They did not know
how long it was before she drew that deep shuddering breath, and said,

‘We’re mad.’

Randal March said, ‘No—sane. Hold on to that—we’ll stay sane
together.’

‘Can we?’

He had come back to his centre of gravity. Thought steadied. He said,

‘Yes.’

There was another of those long breaths.

‘I don’t know—I feel as if I had gone away—too far.’

‘I’ll bring you back.’

‘I don’t think you can.’

She drew away from him.

‘Randal, will you tell me something—honestly?’

‘I’ll do my best.’

‘Your best won’t do unless it’s really honest. I’ve got to know. Are
you—quite sure about me? I don’t mean just now when we’re here together
like this, but have you always been quite sure—first thing in the
morning, and when you wake up suddenly in the night, before you’ve had
time to sort yourself out and argue about it?’

‘Yes, I’ve always been quite sure. It’s not the sort of thing I’ve got
to argue about—it’s in my bones.’

She came up close again and said,

‘Carr isn’t sure.’

‘Rietta!’

‘It’s not his fault. He wants to be sure—he wants it dreadfully.’

‘He’s a young fool.’

She shook her head.

‘He tries—I’ve seen him try. Sometimes he pulls it off—for a little.
And then it comes over him again——“Suppose she did it.” He doesn’t say
anything, but I know. If it was ever like that with you, I couldn’t bear
it.’

‘It won’t ever be like that with me—I can promise you that.’

She said again, ‘It isn’t Carr’s fault. I might be thinking the same
sort of thing about him, only it’s been so plain that he thought it was
I who had killed James. He asked me why I’d done it. And he made me wash
the raincoat. I’m afraid I did it very badly.’

‘You oughtn’t to have done it at all.’

She put up a hand and pushed back her hair—the familiar gesture which
wrung his heart.

‘I know. What I don’t know is whether I wouldn’t do it again. It was all
so horrible, so sudden—and I was frightened for Carr, and he was
frightened for me. Only I ought to have made a better job of it. It
seemed the best thing to do at the time, but now of course it’s going to
make any jury believe I did it.’

He said with a rough edge on his voice,

‘Don’t talk about juries—it won’t come to that. Somebody killed
Lessiter, and we’re going to find out who it was. If you get worried, go
and see Miss Silver. You’ll find her very bracing.’

She said, ‘I like her. I don’t quite know why she impresses one, but she
does. It’s a sort of mixture of being back at school again and finding
yourself wandering about in the fairy story where you meet an old woman
and she gives you a hazel nut with the cloak of darkness packed inside
it.’

He laughed out loud.

‘I wonder what Miss Silver would say if you told her that! She might
just smile indulgently, or you might get a reproof for talking in what
she would describe as an exaggerated manner. She’s rather a wonder, you
know. I’ve heard that impudent chap Frank Abbott call her Maudie the
Mascot. Not to her face, but he always says that if she comes in on a
case, the police come out of it in a blaze of glory.’

‘Is it true?’

‘Just about. She has the most extraordinary flair. No, it’s something
more than that. She knows people. All the things they hide
behind—appearance, manner, the show we all put up to prevent other
people knowing too much about us—she sees right through them, and
judges you on what’s left. I can still remember the awful feeling we
used to get when we were children and we’d been up to something she
didn’t approve of. Even Isabel, who was a fairly hardy liar, used to
give up and burst into tears.’

‘I can’t imagine Isabel bursting into tears.’

‘No—she was tough, wasn’t she? But I’ve seen her do it. As for me, I
always felt it wasn’t even worth trying to hold out on Miss Silver, so I
didn’t try. I don’t mind confessing that she still has very much the
same effect on me.’

Rietta laughed a little unsteadily.

‘Yes, she’s like that. It came over me when I was talking to her that if
I’d had anything to hide, she’d have found it out. As it was, I told her
things I didn’t mean to.’ She stepped back. ‘Randal, I must go. They’ll
think something has happened to me.’




                              THIRTY-FIVE


Friday slipped away into the past. Before it was quite gone Randal March
received a telephone call. He had the lover’s thought that it might be
Rietta, and knew this at once for the folly that it was. Miss Silver’s
schoolroom French came to him along the wire.

‘I am sorry to disturb you, but if you could make it convenient to call
here tomorrow as early as possible, I should be glad. I have had two
conversations which I should like to pass on to you.’

That was all, without either greeting or farewell.

He whistled softly as he hung up the receiver. He knew his Miss Silver.
When she dispensed with observance it meant quite serious business. He
made a mental note to be with her by half past nine. If Melling had to
see the Chief Constable’s car turn in at Mrs. Voycey’s gate, he supposed
Miss Silver would have reckoned on that and considered that the game was
worth the candle. He finished what writing he had to do and took his way
to bed, and to the dreamless sleep which was his fortunate portion.

There were others who were not so fortunate.

Rietta Cray, lying sleepless in the dark, saw painted upon it the cold
decay of hope. The glow that had been in her died, slowly but without
respite. The bleak voice of common sense set out in chill, convincing
terms just how much she would damage Randal’s career if she were to
marry him. There are possible things and impossible things. If the
impossible seems possible and you grasp at it, you are left with only
your own folly to mock you. For an hour she had believed that happiness
was possible. Now she watched it withdraw.

Carr Robertson slept, and dreamed a frightful dream. He stood in a dark
place with a dead man at his feet. A cold hand touched him. He woke
sweating.

Up at Melling House, Mrs. Mayhew called out in her sleep. She had cried
until she could cry no more, and then passed into a dream in which a
child wailed. The child was Cyril. He was cold, he was hungry, he was
hurt, and she could not go to him. She called out in her sleep with such
a lamentable voice that Mayhew sat up and lit the candle. She cried out
again, and turned and went back into her dream. He sat up in bed with
the flame of the candle blowing and thought how cold it was, and
wondered what was going to happen to them all.

Catherine Welby was awake. Like Mayhew she was sitting up in bed, but
unlike Mayhew she had taken precautions against feeling cold. A small
electric fire was turned on, the window was shut, and she wore a
becoming quilted jacket of the same pale blue as the eiderdown. Without
any make-up her skin was pale. Her fair hair was hidden by a lace cap.
She had three pillows behind her, and she sat up straight against them
and read—line after line, page after page, chapter after chapter. Her
will drove her, but if she had been asked what she read she might have
been put to it to find an answer.

The longest night comes to an end, just as the last night comes, whether
we know it is the end or not. For one of these people it was the last
night.

When the dull, reluctant day returned, each one of them got up and went
about his business.

Catherine Welby dressed to catch the 9.40 bus into Lenton. She made
herself some coffee and a couple of slices of toast. She was no longer
pale, because she had taken steps to avoid anything so unbecoming. She
looked very much as she always did, except that she was wearing a
hat—grey, to match her suit, with a jay’s feather stuck in the band.

She came out of the front door, locking it behind her, and saw Mrs.
Fallow come down the drive, hurrying and all agog with news. Catherine
said good-morning, and it all came pouring out.

‘It’s my morning for Miss Cray, and I expect you’ll wonder what I’m
doing, but I said to Miss Rietta how I couldn’t get that poor soul Mrs.
Mayhew off my mind. It’s terrible the way she’s been carrying on. Mr.
Mayhew can’t get her to eat a thing. She just sits and drinks a cup of
tea and cries down into it all the time. So I said to Miss Rietta, “I’ve
got a hen laying, and I’ve brought two of the eggs along, so what about
slipping up to the house and seeing she gets one whipped up in her tea?”
And Miss Rietta she says, “All right,” and off I went.’

Catherine glanced at her wrist-watch. The bus stop was just beyond the
gate. She had five minutes. She said,

‘I should think you would have gone up the back way.’

Her voice was quite smooth and even. All the same she didn’t think Mrs.
Fallow had come out of her way to tell her whether Mrs. Mayhew had taken
a beaten-up egg in her tea.

Mrs. Fallow’s thin, dark face twitched with impatience. She wanted to
get on with her story, not be kept pottering about.

‘So I did,’ she said. ‘And when I got up there, well, it was as much as
I could do to remember what I’d come for. Such a to-do! It seems the
Chief Constable come back in the afternoon, and the lady with him that’s
visiting Mrs. Voycey, and they go into the study. And a piece after that
Inspector Drake comes along, and the photographer chap and two more, and
there’s photographs taken, and plaster casts. But that Miss Silver,
she’d gone by then. She’d be in the way, and I expect the Chief
Constable packed her off.’

Catherine was drawing on her gloves, smoothing them carefully over the
fingers.

‘And what were they photographing and taking casts of?’

Mrs. Fallow came up close and said in a flesh-creeping tone,

‘Footprints.’

‘Footprints?’ said Catherine. She stepped back.

Mrs. Fallow followed her.

‘Footprints,’ she said. ‘Right there by the study window under the lilac
bushes. Seems someone must have been standing there Wednesday night
about the time Mr. Lessiter was killed. And they’ve got everything
photographed and measured, so they’ll be able to tell who it was. And
thank heaven they can’t put it on Miss Rietta, for they say the
footprints was small, and that’s something no one couldn’t say about
her. Nice-shaped feet she’s got, but small they’re not, and you can’t
get from it. So that’s one for Miss Rietta, and one for Cyril Mayhew
too. We all know he’s a bit of a weed, but fours in lady’s shoes he
doesn’t take and never could. And I needn’t really have bothered about
the eggs. Mrs. Mayhew’s like a different creature—that cheered up you
wouldn’t know her, and had a kipper for breakfast and three pieces of
toast and marmalade. So I thought I’d come along this way and give you
the news if you were anywhere about. Only I mustn’t stop—Miss Rietta’s
counting on me.’

They walked out between the pillars. Catherine got into the bus.




                               THIRTY-SIX


‘But of course, my dear, you must see him in the drawing-room. Bessie
shall light the fire before breakfast.’

‘It is very good of you, Cecilia.’

It really was, because Cecilia Voycey was dying of curiosity, and
finding it very hard to bear in mind that you didn’t—you simply
didn’t—ask questions about other people’s private affairs. Moral maxims
are notoriously hard to live up to. The effort brought quite a deep
flush to her face. But when the Chief Constable’s car drew up she merely
repeated for the third time that she wouldn’t dream of intruding, and
fell back upon the dining-room, where she recalled that Maud had always
been provokingly discreet even at school.

In the drawing-room Miss Silver recounted her interview with Catherine
Welby and the confidences of Allan Grover. March didn’t exactly
pooh-pooh the latter, but he permitted himself to observe that what the
solicitor’s clerk said was not evidence. With which Miss Silver agreed,
adding with a mild cough that she had been impressed by his sincerity,
and that she did not wish to expose herself to the reproach of having
withheld information from the police.

The Chief Constable was in notably better spirits than he had been the
day before. He laughed and said,

‘A thing you would never do!’

If his tone was light, hers in return was serious.

‘Very seldom, and only for very good reasons, Randal. And now there is
something I would like to suggest to you. It may have been done already,
but if not——’

‘What is it?’

‘It is the matter of the telephone calls on Wednesday night.’

‘Calls?’

‘Yes. We know that Mrs. Welby had a ten minutes call to Miss Cray
between eight-twenty and eight-thirty——’

‘It was Catherine Welby who called up?’

‘Yes. Miss Cray refuses to say what they were talking about. When I
suggested that it was a matter of business, she said, “You might call it
that,” and when I asked her if it was connected with Mr. Lessiter she
just said, “Oh!” in an extremely startled manner. Mrs. Welby was angry
and, I think, shaken when I referred to this call. When I spoke of the
missing memorandum she had, I am convinced, a moment of acute fear.
Putting all the small things together which I have observed or gathered
from local talk, I feel quite sure that Mrs. Welby found herself placed
in a very awkward position by Mr. Lessiter’s return. Mrs. Lessiter
furnished the Gate House for her. More things have been added from time
to time, some of them of considerable value. Mrs. Welby has given
everyone to understand that these things were gifts. Then Mr. Lessiter
returns. It would not be unnatural that he should ask for some proof
that his mother had given Mrs. Welby so many valuable presents. There is
evidence that he was searching the house for a paper which I believe to
have been the memorandum mentioned in his conversation with Miss Cray.
Mrs. Fallow who works at Melling House told Mrs. Voycey’s housekeeper
that he was “pretty well turning the house upside down” for a paper Mrs.
Lessiter had left for him. We know that paper was found, because Miss
Cray saw it on his table. But it cannot be found now. I do not think you
can escape the inference that this memorandum would implicate someone
who therefore took steps to remove it. I do not go so far as to assert
that this person was the murderer, but it certainly presents itself as a
possibility. In my opinion the memorandum implicated Mrs. Welby. I think
it contained proof that the contents of the Gate House were not given,
but merely lent. If, as I am convinced, she had sold some of them——’

‘My dear Miss Silver!’

She inclined her head.

‘I am convinced of it. Her income is extremely small, her clothes are
extremely expensive. She is, and has been, very much alarmed. She did
not anticipate Mr. Lessiter’s return.’

‘With all respect for your convictions——’

She gave him her charming smile.

‘You may consider if you like that I am putting a hypothetical case, but
it is what I believe to have happened. Mr. Lessiter finds the memorandum
at, let us say, somewhere between half past seven and eight o’clock on
Wednesday evening. He rings Mrs. Welby up, and makes her realize that
she has put herself on the wrong side of the law. When he has rung off
she calls Miss Cray. I can deduce those two telephone conversations. We
know that one of them did in fact occur. What we need is evidence that
the other also did take place, and evidence as to what was said on both
occasions. Has the girl on duty at the telephone exchange been
approached?’

‘I should think not—Drake would have mentioned it. There has been
nothing until now to suggest that the call Rietta Cray received on
Wednesday night had anything to do with the murder.’

‘Then, Randal, will you see that the girl is questioned, and at once. We
should know what telephone calls were sent out from Melling House that
evening, and whether she overheard what was said. And whether she
overheard any part of the conversation between Mrs. Welby and Miss
Cray.’

‘They are not supposed to listen.’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘We all do a great many things which we are not supposed to do. There
has been some local interest about Mr. Lessiter’s affairs. I hope we may
discover that Gladys Luker was sufficiently curious to listen in.’

‘You know who was on duty at the exchange?’

‘Oh, yes—she is Mrs. Grover’s niece. A very nice girl. She has not
repeated anything, but Mrs. Voycey’s housekeeper, who is friendly with
her aunt, seems to think that Gladys has something on her mind.’

He laughed.

‘I’ll have her questioned, but don’t be disappointed if we find the
blight is due to the boy friend having missed a date. Well, I must be
off. By the way, Drake is fed to the teeth about your footprints. You
are always adding to the debt of gratitude I owe you.’

‘My dear Randal!’

‘My dear Miss Silver, you have no idea how I dislike that worthy and
efficient man, and I can’t say so to anyone but you. Zeal, zeal—all
zeal! You may be interested to know, on his authority, that the lady of
the footprints takes a small four.’

‘I take a small four myself, Randal.’

He could not restrain an exclamation.

Miss Silver coughed.

‘And so does Mrs. Welby,’ she said.




                              THIRTY-SEVEN


Catherine Welby got off the bus in the Market Square at Lenton and took
the narrow cut called Friar’s Row. The Friary has been gone for so long
that only the name survives, but there are some old houses lurking
behind modern shop windows in Main Street. In one of these Mr.
Holderness had his office. The bookseller’s shop on the ground floor had
changed hands more than once, but the firm of Stanway, Stanway, Fulpurse
and Holderness has occupied the upper storeys for a hundred and fifty
years. There was only one Stanway now, an invalid whose appearances at
the office had become few and far between. A nephew of the name would in
due course be admitted to the firm. He was at the moment completing his
military service. Dark portraits of ancestral Stanways showed them
shrewd-eyed, hard-mouthed, and eminently respectable. The type had not
changed with the years. There had only been one Fulpurse, dead in 1846
when the first Holderness appears—his mother Amelia Fulpurse, his
father connected in the female line with the Stanways. Altogether one of
those old-established family concerns which are still to be found in
country towns.

Catherine went up two steps to the open doorway beside the bookseller’s
entrance. A flagged passage led to the gloomy stair, and the stair to
the first floor and the room where Mr. Holderness kept his state. On the
door next to his the name of the last Stanway lingered only to be
discerned on some unusually bright day.

Catherine Welby hesitated for a moment, then passed this empty room,
devoted now to deed-boxes and dust, and opened the door of the room
beyond. The tapping of a typewriter ceased, a girl looked up, and down
again. Allan Grover rose to meet her.

He was to remember it all afterwards so many times. This room had a
single window on to Friar’s Row. In any except the brightest weather the
electric light was on all day. It was on now. It dazzled on the gold of
her hair, on the small diamond brooch at her throat. It emphasized the
deep blue of her eyes. She brought with her the very breath of beauty,
the very pulse of romance. At twenty-one these are easily evoked. Youth
is its own enchantment. He heard her say, ‘Good-morning,’ and stammered
over his reply.

Miss Janet Loddon, who had returned to her typing, gave him a quick
glance of contempt, and set the ensuing wrong letter down to his
account. She was a year older than he was, and had been despising men in
general for the last week or two owing to an obstinate quarrel with a
boy friend whose stubbornness in refusing to eat humble pie was giving
her a good deal of trouble. It restored her self-respect to observe Mr.
Grover’s change of colour and the hesitation in his speech, but she felt
no warmth towards Mrs. Welby, whom she set down as old enough to know
better. She heard Allan go out of the room, she heard him return: Then
they both went out together. He was taking her along to Mr. Holderness’s
room, and being long enough over it.

To Allan there was a flash of light when Catherine came in, an interval
of darkness during which he went along to Mr. Holderness’s room and came
back again, and another terribly brief flash during which he walked
beside her to the door at the end of the passage, threw it open,
announced, ‘Mrs. Welby, sir,’ and withdrew. He went back to his table
and the contempt of Miss Loddon. She could hear a rustling of papers,
the scratching of a pen. Then suddenly his chair was pushed back, he got
up, and made for the door. He said,

‘If I’m wanted, I’ll be in Mr. Stanway’s room. Mr. Holderness wants to
look at the Jardine papers.’

Miss Loddon remarking that she supposed everyone would be able to get
along without him for ten minutes or so, he went out and shut the door
rather more sharply than Mr. Holderness would have approved.

Catherine Welby sat where James Lessiter had sat during his last
interview with his solicitor. The windows looked upon Main Street. Being
closed, the hum of the traffic was pleasantly subdued. The light
striking over her left shoulder fell upon one of the Stanway
portraits—William, first of the name, dark against the panelling.
Beyond the fact that it was a portrait there was very little to be seen.
The past engulfed it. There was a flavour of respectability and a great
deal of gloom.

Mr. Holderness appeared in vigorous contrast, his colour high, his grey
hair thick and handsome, his dark brows arching over fine dark eyes.
Having known Catherine from a child, he addressed her by her name. The
echoes of his resonant voice saying, ‘My dear Catherine!’ followed Allan
Grover down the passage.

The interview lasted for about twenty minutes. Catherine, not usually
given to confidence, had now no impulse to withhold it. Under Mr.
Holderness’s startled gaze she imparted details of a predicament which
were certainly calculated to occasion his grave concern.

‘You see, I have sold some of the things.’

‘My dear Catherine!’

‘One has to have money. Besides, why shouldn’t I! Aunt Mildred gave them
to me.’

Mr. Holderness looked shocked.

‘Just what have you sold?’

‘Oh, odds and ends—there was a Cosway miniature——’

He made a horrified gesture.

‘So easily traced!’

‘I tell you Aunt Mildred gave it to me. Why shouldn’t I sell it? I would
rather have kept it of course, because it was quite charming. Romney
period, you know—curls and floating scarf, like the pictures of Lady
Hamilton. Her name was Jane Lilly, and she was a sort of ancestress. But
I had to have the money—things are such a shocking price.’ This refrain
recurred. ‘I must have a decent amount of money—you do understand that,
don’t you?’

Mr. Holderness’s complexion had taken on a considerably deeper shade. He
said with less than his usual suavity,

‘You must cut your coat according to your cloth.’

Catherine had a rueful smile for that.

‘My trouble is that I do like the most expensive cloth.’

He told her bluntly that she had got herself into a very dangerous
position.

‘You were foolish enough to sell things that didn’t belong to you, and
James Lessiter did more than suspect you. He sat in that chair where you
are sitting now and told me he was convinced that you had been
defrauding the estate.’

Catherine continued to smile.

‘He always had a very vindictive nature. Rietta was well out of marrying
him. I told her so at the time.’

Mr. Holderness made the sound which is usually written ‘Tush!’

‘He told me he was prepared to prosecute.’

‘He told me that too.’ She paused, and added, ‘So naturally I went up to
see him.’

‘You went up to see him?’

‘On that Wednesday night. But Rietta was there, so I came away.’

‘My dear Catherine!’

‘But I went back—later.’

‘What are you saying?’

‘Just what you said to me—that I am in a very serious position. Or I
should be if it was all going to come out.’

‘There is really no reason why it should come out. You can hold your
tongue, can’t you?’

‘Oh, yes—I have—I do. And I shall go on—unless I simply can’t help
myself.’

‘I don’t follow you.’

‘Well, there’s a tiresome meddling old maid of a governess who has got
herself mixed up in the affair. She’s staying with Mrs. Voycey.’

‘My dear Catherine, how does she come into it?’

‘Rietta has dragged her in. It seems she fancies herself as a
detective.’

Mr. Holderness leaned back in his chair with an air of relief.

‘I should think the police would make short work of her. They don’t take
kindly to interference.’

‘She used to be Randal March’s governess,’ said Catherine. ‘Rietta says
he thinks the world of her. Anyhow she came to see me yesterday
afternoon, and I can tell you this, she’s got the whole thing pretty
well pieced together.’

‘What do you mean, Catherine?’

‘I don’t think Rietta had talked—she wouldn’t. But this Miss Silver
knew or guessed about the things from Melling House, and about James
cutting up rough. She guessed I’d rung Rietta up about them on Wednesday
night, and if that Luker girl at the exchange was listening in, I shall
be in the soup. Of course I was a fool to talk about it on the
telephone, but James had just rung me, so if anyone was listening they’d
heard everything that mattered already, and I was feeling desperate. I
told Rietta I was.’

‘Then you had certainly better hope that the young woman at the exchange
was not listening.’

Catherine waived this away.

‘Oh, I don’t suppose she was—she can’t do it all the time. It’s Miss
Silver who worries me. She knows about that damned memorandum—don’t ask
me how. If she goes on the way she’s begun, there’s going to be a day of
judgment all round. I just wonder whether I hadn’t better make a
statement to the police and have done with it.’

Mr. Holderness looked scandalized.

‘It would be most uncalled for, and——’ he paused—‘extremely
dangerous. Prudence, my dear Catherine——’

Ten minutes later Catherine Welby got up to go. She turned at the open
door and said in her clear voice,

‘All right, I won’t do anything rash, I promise you.’

Allan Grover, coming out of Mr. Stanway’s room next door, saw that she
was smiling. He heard what she had said, but he did not hear whether Mr.
Holderness made any reply. He took a step towards her, and they walked
together to the head of the stairs. She brought a scent of violets with
her. His heart was beating hard. He couldn’t think of anything to say,
but if he didn’t say something she would go. What can you say when your
heart is full of forbidden things? He changed colour as he thought of
them, and hastened into commonplace.

‘Are you taking the bus out of Melling?’

‘Well, yes.’

‘You’re not staying in Lenton for lunch? You couldn’t—I mean you
wouldn’t—have lunch with me, would you?’

He didn’t know how he got it out. The colour burned his face. But she
wasn’t angry, she was smiling.

‘That’s terribly sweet of you, Allan, but I must get home.’

‘I—I’d do anything for you, Mrs. Welby.’

‘Would you? I wonder. No, I really believe you would. You’re a dear boy.
Come round and see me some time like you used to.’

‘Oh, Mrs. Welby—may I?’

She nodded, smiling, met his eyes, and let the smile slide into a laugh.

‘You mustn’t be foolish, you know.’

‘Is it foolish to—to love you?’

‘Very.’ She was still laughing. ‘But rather sweet. There!’

She leaned forward, kissed him lightly on the cheek, and ran down the
stairs with a backward wave of her hand.




                              THIRTY-EIGHT


Saturday slipped away. Catherine Welby bought some face-cream, a box of
powder, and a new lipstick, after which she took the next bus back to
Melling. Saturday being a half day at the office, Allan Grover snatched
a hasty lunch and went to watch a football match. Returning home in time
for a six o’clock tea, he had a wash and brush up and went out again,
announcing that he thought he would look in at The Feathers for a game
of darts. He was home by half-past ten and in bed a few minutes later,
but sleep remained obstinately aloof.

Mrs. Grover, in the next room, decided for at least the hundredth time
that she really must do something to stop that bed of his from creaking
so. Every time he turned over it made a noise like a door with a rusty
hinge, and why a healthy boy should turn and twist like that was beyond
her. But there, boys and girls were all the same—a trouble over their
teething, and a trouble over their schooling, and a trouble over their
lovering. The way Allan was going on he’d got something on his mind, and
she didn’t have to think twice to know what it was. Pity he couldn’t
have just gone on quiet with Gladys Luker that was a real nice girl and
thought the world of him. But there—a man wouldn’t be a man if he
didn’t make a fool of himself some time in his life, and better first
than last. He was young, and he’d get over it and be married and settled
one day, and Doris too. And then there’d be the same trouble all over
again with their children—you couldn’t get from it. She pulled the
bedclothes well up over her ears and went to sleep.

Sunday morning came in bright and clear. Mrs. Fallow, professionally off
duty, took time from her own domestic affairs to run up to Melling House
just to keep in touch. If, for instance, Cyril had been arrested, it
would be a severe affront to hear the news from anyone but Mrs. Mayhew
herself. Passing the Gate House at half past nine, she thought Mrs.
Welby was lying late—no smoke from the chimney and the milk not taken
in. She remarked to Mrs. Mayhew that she only wished she had the time to
lie in bed of a morning.

A cup of tea having been proffered and accepted, twenty minutes slipped
away. After which Mrs. Fallow buttoned up her coat and said she didn’t
know what she was thinking about, sitting like this with everything
waiting at home and the Sunday dinner to cook. She made off down the
drive at a quick trot. Slackening her pace when she came to the Gate
House, she was astonished and a little shocked to see the milk bottle
still on the step and no trace of smoke coming from the chimney. A good
lay-in on a Sunday was one thing, but best part of ten o’clock was what
you might call overdoing it. She went out between the pillars, and
something nagged at her to go back again. All the years she’d known Mrs.
Welby she hadn’t ever known her to be late in the morning. If it was
some she could name, it wouldn’t be anything to think twice about, but
Mrs. Welby was one of the early ones—always had been so long as she’d
known her.

She went along the flagged path to the little porch and stood looking at
the milk bottle. It ought to have been taken in best part of two hours
ago. She didn’t like it. On the other hand, Mrs. Welby wasn’t one that
would care about your poking your nose into her business. If she hadn’t
been one of the most inquisitive women on earth Mrs. Fallow would have
turned round and gone away.

She couldn’t bring herself to do it. She went round the corner of the
house and saw all the curtains closely drawn and the windows shut. It
was downright unnatural. Always slept with her windows open Mrs. Welby
did, the one to the side of the house and the one to the front, and if
she was up and about she’d be airing the room. Talking about it
afterwards, she said she got a cold creep all down her back, and what
came into her mind was it looked for all the world as if there was
someone dead in the house.

She walked all the way round. There wasn’t a window open or a curtain
pulled aside. She came back to the porch and pressed her finger on the
electric bell. No one answered, no one came.

Mrs. Fallow found herself getting out her handkerchief and wiping her
hands. It was a bright, cold morning, but they were clammy with sweat.
The silence in the house seemed to be seeping out of it like—she didn’t
know what it was like, but it frightened her. She rang again and again,
and when that failed she beat upon the door loud enough, in her own
words, to wake the dead. Nobody waked, nobody came. She picked up her
feet and ran for the White Cottage.

She looked scared to death when Rietta Cray opened the door, and next
minute she was crying, and saying she thought something had happened to
Mrs. Welby and what did they ought to do about it. It was Rietta who
suggested the telephone, but when there was still no reply they all went
round to the Gate House, she, and Carr, and Fancy, and Mrs. Fallow.

It was Fancy who tried the door and found that it wasn’t locked. The key
was on the inner side, but it wasn’t locked. They went through into the
living-room, and found the light turned on in the reading-lamp and the
curtains closed. The light showed the gold waves of Catherine’s hair
against one of her pastel cushions. She lay on the sofa in her blue
house gown and looked as if she was asleep. But she was dead.




                              THIRTY-NINE


The Chief Constable’s car drew up at Mrs. Voycey’s front door. He rang
the bell, asked for Miss Silver, and was shown into the drawing-room
where she and Mrs. Voycey were sitting by the fire. Cecilia Voycey
displayed a commendable degree of tact. She shook hands, she beamed a
welcome, and removed herself and her novel to the dining-room. When the
door was closed upon her Randal March turned to Miss Silver and said,

‘Well, I suppose you have heard the news.’

She had her knitting in her lap. The two fronts and the back of little
Josephine’s jacket having been completed and sewn together, she was
engaged upon the left sleeve, for which four needles were in use. They
clicked briskly as she replied,

‘Oh, yes. It is extremely shocking.’

He dropped into the chair which Mrs. Voycey had vacated.

‘You were, of course, perfectly right. I don’t know how you do it. I
must confess I was sceptical, but—we got a statement from the Luker
girl. She did listen in on Wednesday night, and this is what she says.’
He took out some folded sheets of typescript, straightened them, and
began to read aloud:

‘ “I was on duty from Wednesday evening at seven o’clock. Things were
quiet. There weren’t many calls. At a quarter to eight Mr. Lessiter rang
through from Melling House to know if I could help him with Mr.
Holderness’s private address. I looked it up and put him through. I
wouldn’t have listened, only I was worrying about something, and I
thought maybe it would stop me thinking about it. But I’d another call
to see to, so all I heard was Mr. Lessiter saying, ‘Good evening, Mr.
Holderness. I’ve found my mother’s memorandum.’ The call was quite a
short one, and I didn’t listen any more. A little after eight Mr.
Lessiter called again. He gave Mrs. Welby’s number, and I put him on.
There has been a lot of talk about Mr. Lessiter in Melling. I don’t
listen as a rule, but I thought I would, just to see what he sounded
like talking to someone like Mrs. Welby——” ’

He looked up from the paper and said,

‘We didn’t get all this straight off, you know. She was a good deal
upset. There seemed to be something behind this listening in—some
animus against Mrs. Welby. Do you know of anything that would account
for it?’

Miss Silver was knitting composedly. She said,

‘Oh, yes. Gladys Luker used to be very friendly with Mrs. Grover’s son
at the grocery stores, the young man I told you of in Mr. Holderness’s
office. He has been rather advertising a foolish infatuation for Mrs.
Welby.’

He broke into a half laugh.

‘How in the world do you discover these things?’

She gave her faint dry cough.

‘My friend’s housekeeper is Gladys Luker’s aunt. Pray continue.’

‘Yes—we now approach the meat ... Where was I? ... Oh here——“I
thought I would, just to see what he sounded like talking to someone
like Mrs. Welby. He began just the same as he did to Mr.
Holderness—‘Well, Catherine, I’ve found the memorandum. I thought you’d
be pleased to know. You are, aren’t you?’ I wondered what it was all
about, because it sounded as if he was saying something nasty. Mrs.
Welby didn’t sound at all pleased. She said, ‘What do you mean?’ And he
said, ‘You know very well what I mean. It’s all down in black and white.
My mother never gave you any of those things. She lent them, and they
are my property. If you have disposed of any of them, I shall
prosecute.’ Mrs. Welby said, ‘You wouldn’t do that!’ and he said, ‘I
don’t advise you to count on it, my dear Catherine. I’ve an old score to
settle, and I always settle my scores. I’ve just been ringing old
Holderness up——’ I didn’t hear any more than that, because another
call came through. At twenty past eight Mrs. Welby rang Miss Cray. I
can’t remember everything she said, but it was all telling Miss Cray
about Mr. Lessiter finding this memorandum, and his saying the furniture
and things she had were only lent to her. She wanted Miss Cray to tell
Mr. Lessiter that his mother’s memory was bad and she didn’t know what
she was doing, and Miss Cray wouldn’t. Mrs. Welby went on at her, but
she wouldn’t. Mrs. Welby got very worked up, and right at the end she
said, ‘Well, if anything happens, it’ll be your fault. I’m desperate.’
And she rang off.” ’

He laid the paper down.

‘It’s just what you thought, isn’t it? And if you’ll let me say so, I
don’t think even you have ever done a better bit of work—bricks without
straw, and good solid bricks at that. I think it’s quite clear what
happened. Catherine Welby’s bluff was called. She was faced with
prosecution. Lessiter was a vindictive devil and he had it in for her.
When she found she couldn’t get Rietta to say what she wanted she went
up to Melling House to make a personal appeal. But when she got there
Lessiter wasn’t alone. Rietta had taken the short cut and got in first.
She may have passed Catherine, or I suppose Catherine may have passed
her and waited to see who it was behind her. That would account for the
footprints under the lilacs. We have found the shoes which made them.
There’s a little of the black earth and a grain or two of lime between
the heel and the upper.’

Miss Silver nodded. She was knitting busily.

‘Pray go on.’

‘Well, there it is. She must have waited for Rietta to go. Then she went
in herself, tried to soften him, but failed. He would be sitting at the
table with the memorandum in front of him. It would be easy enough for
her to pick up the raincoat and put it on—he wouldn’t notice or care.
It wouldn’t occur to him to be afraid of anything she might do. He was
pretty full of himself, and he’d got her under his thumb. She had just
told Rietta she was desperate. She could have gone behind him to the
fire and picked up the poker. Well, there you are.’

Miss Silver said nothing at all for quite a little while. Her needles
clicked. When she did speak it was to say.

‘You consider that she has committed suicide.’

‘I shouldn’t think that there was any doubt about it. There will have to
be a post-mortem of course, but there’s no reason to doubt that her
death was due to an overdose of sleeping tablets. There was an empty
bottle on the table by her side—one of those new preparations which
everyone seems to fly to the minute they have anything the matter with
them nowadays.’

‘How had they been taken?’

‘Oh, in coffee. The tray was there on the table—coffee-pot, milk-jug,
the cup with the dregs still in it.’

‘It would take a good deal of coffee to dissolve enough tablets to kill
a healthy young woman. What size was the cup?’

‘An old one—quite a fair size. Why?’

‘I was wondering if the tablets had been dissolved in the cup, or in the
pot, or whether they might have been separately dissolved in water and
added to the coffee either in the pot or in the cup, in which case I
should not expect any sediment to be found.’

He looked a little surprised.

‘There was no sediment from the powdered tablets. But I’m afraid I don’t
quite——’

She gave him a brief smile.

‘It does not matter, Randal. Have you anything more to tell me?’

‘Not about Catherine Welby. But we have had a report on Cyril Mayhew,
and there, I must admit, you score again.’

She coughed in a protesting manner.

‘My dear Randal, I merely repeated his friend Allan Grover’s opinion,
with the comment that it appeared to be reasonable and sincere.’

‘Well, the boy seems to have turned up at his lodgings in pretty bad
shape. He said he missed the last train and had to thumb a lift. He’s
been in bed with a temperature ever since. The gold figures are
certainly not in his room, and he doesn’t seem to have had any
opportunity of disposing of them. The only time he could have done it
would be between leaving Melling and arriving at his lodgings, and
that’s out, because we’ve traced the man who gave him the lift—a doctor
called out of town to a consultation. He says the boy seemed ill when he
picked him up in Lenton, so he went a mile out of his road and took him
all the way home.’

Miss Silver knitted briskly. The sleeve of little Josephine’s jacket
lengthened.

‘What does Cyril Mayhew say himself?’

‘Oh, he admits going down to see his mother, and admits that it was
because he wanted money, but he says his mother gave it to him. When he
was pressed he broke down and said it was his father’s money and his
father didn’t know. Well, that’s a family matter—unless Mayhew makes a
charge, which he won’t. But it accounts for Mrs. Mayhew getting so hot
and bothered. I suspect she has been strictly forbidden to go on
providing the prodigal with pocket-money, and she’s been doing it behind
Mayhew’s back.’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked.

‘You did not find the gold figures at the Gate House?’

‘No, we didn’t.’

She said in a thoughtful tone,

‘They must be somewhere——’

He laughed.

‘Too true! But we haven’t found them yet.’

She continued in the same manner.

‘A woman in Mrs. Welby’s position would find it extremely difficult to
dispose of that kind of stolen property.’

He made a gesture of protest.

‘She disposed of other things.’

‘They were not known to be stolen. I do not suppose for a moment that
she regarded them as stolen. She had probably quite persuaded herself
that Mrs. Lessiter had given them to her, and she had no reason to
suppose that her actions would ever be called in question. There is a
vast difference between that and the disposal of these four gold
figures, taken at the time of a murder and in the very presence of the
murdered man.’

‘She may have hidden them somewhere.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘Why should she take them at all? For a woman of her type to kill by
violence she must have been very highly wrought. Mr. Lessiter was
threatening her with prosecution. If she was so beside herself with fear
as to have recourse to an unnatural degree of violence, would she choose
that moment for a theft which must involve her in a fresh series of
risks, and would, if traced, convict her of the murder? That is one
thing I find difficult to believe. But there is another. Miss Cray left
Mr. Lessiter at a quarter past nine. We know that Mrs. Welby stood
behind the lilacs, and we have drawn the deduction that she was waiting
for Miss Cray to go. We know that she ascended the step, and it is fair
to conclude that she listened at the door. Miss Cray broke off her
interview in anger, and she admits that the anger was on behalf of a
friend. Can you doubt that the friend was Mrs. Welby, and that Miss
Cray’s generous anger arose from his obstinate determination to
prosecute?’

‘Yes, I admit all that.’

‘Then, Randal, can you explain why Mrs. Welby should have allowed more
than half an hour to go by before entering the study?’

‘Where do you get your half hour?’

She said very composedly,

‘From Mrs. Mayhew’s statements. You will remember that she opened the
study door at a quarter to ten and saw Miss Cray’s raincoat hanging over
a chair. She described the cuff as being stained with blood. When she
was later pressed on this point, it appeared that the stain was no more
than could be accounted for by the scratch on Miss Cray’s wrist. But
when Mr. Carr Robertson brought the raincoat home more than an hour
later the sleeve was quite soaked with blood. If this soaking occurred
whilst the coat was being worn by Mrs. Welby, then it happened after
Mrs. Mayhew opened the door at a quarter to ten. From what Miss Cray has
told me, I believe that it must have happened considerably later than
that. Miss Cray says the blood was still quite wet. Blood dries quickly,
and she says it was very hot in the study. If Mrs. Welby stained that
coat in the act of murdering Mr. Lessiter, then she must have deferred
her interview with him for something between half an hour and an hour
and a quarter. Why should she have done so?’

‘I don’t know.’

‘Nor do I, Randal.’

He said in an exasperated voice,

‘My dear Miss Silver, what are you trying to prove? The case is solved,
the murderer has committed suicide—two and two have made four. What
more do you want?’

She coughed in a deprecating manner.

‘You say that two and two have made four. I regret to say that at the
moment they appear to me to be making five.’




                                 FORTY


Miss Silver knocked at the kitchen door and went in. She found Mrs.
Crook sitting in front of the fire listening to the B.B.C. light
programme.

‘Pray do not disturb yourself. I will not detain you for more than a
moment.’

Mrs. Crook reached out sideways and reduced the volume of an accordion
band.

‘Thank you, Mrs. Crook. It is wonderful how faithfully your set
reproduces the tone—but just a little difficult when one is talking. I
only came in to ask whether you would by any chance be going out this
evening.’

‘Well, I thought I might look in on Mrs. Grover.’

Miss Silver coughed,

‘I wondered if you would be doing that, and whether you would mind
taking a note for me to her son.’

‘He’ll be in a dreadful way,’ said Mrs. Crook.

‘I am afraid so.’

‘Thought the world of Mrs. Welby. I don’t want to say anything about
them that are gone, but she shouldn’t have encouraged him the way she
did—a boy like that! Where was her pride?’

‘I expect she just looked upon him as a boy, Mrs. Crook.’

Bessie Crook bridled.

‘Well, he’s got his feelings, hasn’t he? She might have thought of that.
And so has my niece Gladys. Mrs. Welby didn’t think about her, did she?
Come between two loving hearts, that’s what she did. Gladys and Allan,
they’d been going together ever since they were in their cradles, as you
might say. Living or dead, you can’t get from it—it’s not what a lady
ought to do!’

This was a very long speech for Mrs. Crook. Her colour had deepened. She
looked accusingly at Miss Silver.

‘Let young people alone is what I say. But she couldn’t. Only yesterday
morning she was off into Lenton and in Mr. Holderness’s office. Gladys
had the morning off, and they went in on the same bus, so she thinks to
herself, “I’ll see where she goes.” And she hasn’t got to see
far—straight through Friar’s Cut and into Mr. Holderness’s office! And
nothing’ll make Gladys believe she didn’t go there after Allan. Quite
downhearted she was when I saw her for a minute outside the Stores.’

Miss Silver’s note was a very short one. It ran:

    _Dear Mr. Grover,_

    _I should very much like to see you if you can make it
    convenient._

     _Yours sincerely,_
     _Maud Silver_

Having dispatched it by the hand of Mrs. Crook, she decided that she
would not accompany Cecilia Voycey to evening service. She was therefore
alone in the house when in response to a hesitating knock upon the front
door she went to open it and saw the same tall, dark figure which had
accompanied her across the Green.

She took him into the comfortable warmth of the drawing-room, and was
able for the first time to receive an impression of him beyond that
conveyed by his voice and his height. He was a good-looking boy, even
with his eyes red and swollen from weeping. He had a certain charm of
youth, sincerity, and ardour. He took the chair she indicated, stared at
her in a grief-stricken way, and said,

‘I was coming to see you.’

‘Yes, Mr. Grover?’

He said, ‘Yes. And then your note came. I’d been trying to make up my
mind, because I can see it may ruin me. But I don’t care for that any
more, only it will be hard on my people.’

‘Yes?’

He sat forward with his hands hanging down between his knees. Sometimes
he looked at her, and sometimes he stared upon the ground. His hands
hung down.

‘You can’t always hold your tongue because it will get you into
trouble——’

Miss Silver was knitting quietly. She said,

‘Not always.’

‘I’ve been going over it in my mind all day, backwards and forwards,
ever since I heard about her. It wasn’t fair to tell my father and
mother, because you see, it may ruin me, and it would be like asking
them to have a hand in it. And they’d think about it afterwards—it
wouldn’t be fair. Then I thought about you. You let me talk to you about
Cyril. I thought you’d understand—there’s something about you.’

As he said this he looked up suddenly.

‘You don’t think I’m rude, do you? I don’t mean to be.’

She gave him the smile which had won so many confidences.

‘I am quite sure about that. You can tell me anything you like. I am
sure it is best to tell the truth. Concealments are of no real benefit
to anyone. They breed more crimes.’

He looked startled, and said,

‘_More?_’ And then, ‘There’s been enough, hasn’t there?’

‘Yes, Allan.’

The silence gathered, until he broke it with a sigh so deep that it was
almost a sob.

‘I’d no business to love her, but I did! I can’t let them say things
about her and hold my tongue—can I?’ Then, without waiting for an
answer, ‘She came to the office on Saturday morning—that’s yesterday.
It seems much longer ago than that. I was in the room where I work. She
opened the door and came in. I took her along to Mr. Holderness’s room.
Then I went back, but I couldn’t settle down. You see, there had been a
lot of talk—talk about Mr. Lessiter coming back—talk about whether he
would make it up again with Miss Cray—talk about whether he would let
Mrs. Welby stay on at the Gate House, and whether he would let her keep
the things Mrs. Lessiter had given her. I was worried for her in case
she was turned out, or Mr. Lessiter wouldn’t let her keep the things. I
didn’t know how things were, and I couldn’t sleep thinking about it. I
couldn’t go and see her, because there had been talk—everyone talks in
a village—and she’d told me to keep away. It was driving me silly.’ He
looked up, and down again, and drew one of those sobbing breaths. ‘When
she came into the office I knew what she had come for—to talk to Mr.
Holderness and get his advice. I was desperate to know how things were,
and—well, I listened.’ He threw up his head with a jerk and met Miss
Silver’s calm, dispassionate gaze. His face worked as he said with a
mixture of pride and defiance, ‘I’d no right to—I’d no business—I know
that. I just didn’t seem able to help myself.’

Miss Silver said gently,

‘It was, of course, reprehensible, but I can understand your feelings.
You say you listened. May I enquire how you contrived to do so?’

Her tone was kind and perfectly matter of fact. It steadied him. He said
in a much quieter voice,

‘We’re very short-handed. Mr. Jackson, the head clerk, has been laid up.
Mr. Stanway, the other partner, is an invalid. He doesn’t come down to
the office more than once in a blue moon, but he’s got his room there
next to Mr. Holderness. When I joined the firm there was a clerk there
called Hood. He told me, making a joke of it, that Mr. Stanway kept a
brandy-bottle behind one of the panels in his room. I don’t know how he
found out about it, but he took me in and showed me one day when we
thought there wasn’t anyone about. It was a regular secret cupboard
opening with a spring. There’s a bit of carving you move and the door
comes open. Well, he showed it to me, and there was the brandy-bottle
like he said. And whilst we were standing looking at it we got an awful
start, because there was Mr. Holderness saying something as plain as if
he was in the room. Just for a minute we thought he was, and we got the
wind up properly. I can’t remember what he said. It was just something
like “Now where on earth did I put those papers?”—talking to himself,
you know. Hood looked at me and put up his hand and shut the panel ever
so gently, and we got out of the room as quick as we could. We hadn’t
any business to be there, and we wouldn’t have been, only we thought Mr.
Holderness had gone out.’

Miss Silver laid the sleeve of little Josephine’s jacket out flat upon
her knee and measured it with her hand. It was still a couple of inches
short of the right length. She said,

‘You opened the cupboard in Mr. Stanway’s room yesterday and listened to
what Mrs. Welby was saying to Mr. Holderness?’

‘Yes, I did. I made an excuse to the girl who works in the same room
with me. There were some papers Mr. Holderness had asked for, and I said
I was going to look for them. I hadn’t ever opened the cupboard since
Hood showed it to me, but I remembered how. It opened quite easily, and
it didn’t make any noise—I expect Mr. Stanway kept the spring well
oiled. Everything was just the same, only the cupboard was empty, the
brandy-bottle was gone. And I could see why you could hear what was
going on in the next room. The panel had warped and there was a crack
all down one side, and there was a knothole too. I looked through it,
and I could see Mrs. Welby sitting there. When I found I could see her,
I wasn’t thinking about listening any more—I just wanted to look at
her. And then I couldn’t help listening, because Mr. Holderness said in
the most—well, the most brutal way, “You’ve got yourself into a very
dangerous position.” ’

Miss Silver said, ‘Oh!’ and he caught her up.

‘I’ve got to tell you this, but I can’t if you’re going to think
anything wrong about Mrs. Welby. Mrs. Lessiter gave her the things, and
of course she thought they were hers to do what she liked with, and then
Mr. Lessiter came along and he threatened—Miss Silver, he threatened to
prosecute.’

‘Yes—I was aware of that.’

He stared at her, his lip twitching.

‘How anyone could be such—such a devil!’

‘Pray go on, Allan.’

‘They talked about it, and she said Mrs. Lessiter had given her the
things. No, I think that was later—or before—I don’t know which——’
He dropped his head into his hands and kept it there, fingers pressing
in upon the temples. ‘She said he had told her he was going to
prosecute, and she went to see him.’

‘On the night of the murder?’

‘Yes. But Miss Cray was there, so she came away.’

‘She went back later.’

‘You know that?’

‘Yes.’

‘How?’

‘I do know it.’

‘Yes, she went back. She told Mr. Holderness. She said she was in a very
serious position, and he said why should it come out—she could hold her
tongue. You know, when I was going over it afterwards, that’s when I
began really to think. Up till then I was just frightened—terrified for
her—but when he said that, I could see her. She wasn’t frightened, she
was enjoying herself. I know how she looks when she’s pleased about
something, and she was pleased. She didn’t exactly laugh, but there was
that kind of sound in her voice. He said, “You can hold your tongue,
can’t you?” and she said, “Oh, yes—I have—I do. And I shall go
on—unless I simply can’t help myself.” ’ He lifted his head again.
‘That’s what got me. He was the one who was in a state—she wasn’t. I
shifted so that I could see him, and he looked dreadful. I thought to
myself, “He’s got the wind up,” and I couldn’t make out why. Then they
began to talk about you.’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked. She said,

‘Dear me!’

‘Mrs. Welby was afraid you were finding out about things. There was
something about a memorandum. She called it “that damned memorandum,”
and she said you knew about it. And then she said, “I wonder if I hadn’t
better make a statement to the police and have done with it,” and Mr.
Holderness said it would be extremely dangerous.’ His tone became
suddenly harder, older. ‘That made me think some more. I didn’t like the
way he said it. It sounded—it seemed ridiculous at the time—but I
couldn’t help thinking it sounded as if he was threatening her.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘You interest me extremely.’

Allan Grover went on as if she had not spoken.

‘It was when he said “dangerous.” I was watching him through the
knot-hole. He looked at her. It scared me, but she wasn’t scared. I
moved so that I could see her, and she was laughing. And she said,
“Dangerous? For whom?” That’s where I got the feeling that I didn’t
really know what they were talking about. It didn’t seem as if it could
mean what it seemed to be meaning, because the next thing she said was,
“If I make that statement I shall have to say what I saw when I came
back.” Mr. Holderness said her words over again, “When you came back—”
and she said, “I told you Rietta was with him the first time I went, and
I told you I came back. I waited whilst she talked to him. It was highly
entertaining. He told her he had found the old will he had made in her
favour when they were engaged, and, do you know, she tried to get him to
burn it! I always knew Rietta was a fool, but I didn’t think anyone
could be quite such a fool as that. He told her he’d rather she had the
money than anyone else. He said he had found the will when he was
looking for the “memorandum”. From what he said, it was there on the
table. And she said, “_It was, wasn’t it?_” ’ He made an abrupt
movement. ‘When she said that, I didn’t seem to take it in. I don’t know
if you can understand. I’ve got a very good memory—I could tell you
everything they said and not miss a word.’

Miss Silver inclined her head. She had that kind of memory herself.

He went on.

‘I can remember it all, but when I was listening to it it didn’t seem to
mean anything. Mrs. Welby went on talking. She said Miss Cray quarrelled
with Mr. Lessiter, it wasn’t about the will, it was about Mrs. Welby.
Miss Cray wanted him to stop going on about the things his mother had
given her, and he wouldn’t. He said he was going to prosecute.’ Allan’s
voice took on a tone of horror. ‘And then Miss Cray lost her temper and
came out in a hurry. Mrs. Welby had only just time to get out of the
way.’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked.

‘Yes—I was sure that was how it happened. What did Mrs. Welby do after
that? The interval has puzzled me. Did she go in then and see Mr.
Lessiter?’

He shook his head.

‘No, she didn’t think it was any use—not on the top of that quarrel.
She went home and made herself some coffee. She told Mr. Holderness she
sat there smoking one cigarette after another and thinking what she
could do, and in the end she came round to where she had begun—she must
go back and have it out with Mr. Lessiter. By the time she’d made up her
mind it was ten o’clock. When she got as far as that, telling Mr.
Holderness, he said, “That was a pity, Catherine.” He hadn’t spoken all
the time she was telling him until he said it was a pity. I didn’t know
what he meant then, but I do now.’ A quick shudder went over him. He
stared piteously at Miss Silver.

‘I think that’s when he made up his mind to kill her.’

Miss Silver rested her hands on the small pale blue jacket and said,

‘Yes, I suppose so.’

Allan Grover drew a long breath.

‘She couldn’t see it, you know. I don’t think it ever occurred to her
for one single moment that it would be dangerous to threaten him.’

Miss Silver said,

‘Did she threaten him?’

‘I don’t think she meant it that way, but that is how he would take it.
You see, when she went back to Melling House he was there in the study
talking to Mr. Lessiter. There was something in that memorandum about
him—money Mrs. Lessiter had handed over to him to invest. And he’d kept
it, and Mr. Lessiter was going to prosecute. That’s why he killed her.’

‘Mrs. Welby was actually a witness of the murder?’

‘No, no, no—you mustn’t think that! She left them quarrelling, and she
came away. It wouldn’t have been any good her seeing Mr. Lessiter on the
top of a scene like that. She had got back to the Gate House, when she
heard him coming down the drive. She stood behind a bush and watched him
go.’

‘A very shocking affair.’

‘He had his car parked about a hundred yards along on the grass. I saw
it.’

‘You saw it?’

He nodded.

‘I’m a fool. I used to go round and see her in the evenings. Then she
said I mustn’t come any more—people were talking. But I couldn’t seem
to get out of the way. I used to go round there and walk up and down,
and watch to see her light go out, and then go home. I was there on
Wednesday—that’s how I saw the car.’

‘And you did not inform the police?’

His voice became suddenly natural and boyish.

‘Miss Silver, I give you my word it never crossed my mind that Mr.
Holderness being there had anything to do with the murder—how could it?
I thought he was out there seeing Mrs. Welby. It made me feel downright
sick—an old man like that! I didn’t sleep all night. I could have
killed him—but I never thought he had anything to do with Mr.
Lessiter’s death—not till I was in Mr. Stanway’s room listening, and
heard what Mrs. Welby had to say.’

Miss Silver had resumed her knitting. She said,

‘I see. Will you go on?’

The energy went out of him. He said,

‘There isn’t much more. By the time she had finished it was all as clear
as daylight. That’s to say, it’s as clear as daylight now, looking back
at it, but while they were talking it didn’t seem as if I could take it
in—it didn’t seem possible. She never said right out, “I know you
killed Mr. Lessiter and took the memorandum, and if I tell the police,
you’ll be hanged for it.” It was all what a serious position she was in,
and she would hold her tongue if she could, but of course if they tried
to put it on her, she would have to say what she knew. And then a piece
about how awful it was for her having so little money, and how grateful
she would be if he could help her out. Of course she didn’t realize—she
couldn’t have realized—how that sounded to him. He was old enough to be
her father, and all she would think about was that she was in a tight
place and he could help her out. But going over it in my mind—and I
haven’t been able to help going over it all day—I can see that what he
thought was—was——’ The breath caught in his throat. He stared
miserably down at the pattern of Mrs. Voycey’s carpet.

Miss Silver coughed discreetly.

‘That she was blackmailing him. It would certainly appear to him in that
light.’

Without looking at her Allan stammered out,

‘She wouldn’t—Mrs. Welby wouldn’t!’

Little Josephine’s jacket swung round with something of a swish. There
was no doubt at all in Miss Silver’s mind that Catherine Welby had
embarked upon a deliberate attempt at blackmail, and that this attempt
had brought her to her death. Very dangerous—very dangerous indeed, and
in a murder case extremely likely to prove fatal. She did not, however,
make this comment aloud, but continued to knit until the silence was
broken by a choking sob.

‘What I can’t get over is that I might have saved her. I told you I
didn’t take it all in at the time. When she came out of Mr. Holderness’s
room she was extra sweet to me. It—it put everything else out of my
head. The office shut at one, and I went off with some chaps to a
football match. I didn’t get home till late, and after I’d had my tea I
went out again. I told my mother I was going to get a game of darts at
The Feathers, but when it came to the point I couldn’t face it. I went
and walked up and down by the Gate House and watched her light. Round
about half past nine I saw the car drive up again and park on the verge.
There’s a tree hangs down over the wall. I stood back under it and
watched him go past. He went between the pillars and up to her door and
in. I nearly went mad thinking of them there together.’ He looked up,
his face twitching. ‘Do you know, I went up to the door and put my
finger on the bell but I couldn’t ring it. I went away again—but if I’d
gone in—it would have saved her.’

Miss Silver looked at him very kindly.

‘That is more than anyone can say. You cannot know it. Do not torment
yourself by thinking of what might have been. I do not see how you could
have interrupted an interview between Mrs. Welby and her solicitor. Can
you tell me how long he stayed?’

‘It seemed like hours, but it wasn’t more than twenty minutes. He came
out, and got into his car and drove off.’

Miss Silver said,

‘You say “he,” and “his car,” but could you swear to this “he” being Mr.
Holderness, or could you swear to the car?’

He gave a jerky nod.

‘Both. I saw him by the hall light when he let himself out, and I saw
the number of the car, last night, and on the Wednesday night. When he
had gone I went on walking up and down for a bit. Then there were some
people coming along, and I cleared out and went home.’ He dropped his
head in his hands and groaned. ‘If I’d stayed—if I’d only stayed—I’d
have known there was something wrong when her light didn’t go out.’




                               FORTY-ONE


At half past nine o’clock on Monday morning Mr. Holderness gathered his
letters together and rose from the breakfast table. A childless widower
of many years’ standing, his house had been kept ever since his wife’s
death by an unmarried sister, a faded invalidish person with an
expression of chronic discontent. As her brother picked up _The Times_
and put it under his arm, she looked up with a puckered brow.

‘Are you going already?’

‘It is half past nine.’

‘Did you have your second cup of tea?’ He laughed.

‘You poured it out yourself.’

Miss Holderness clasped her head.

‘Did I? I’m sure I hardly know what I’m doing. I didn’t sleep a wink. I
can’t think how I came to run out of my tablets—I thought the box was
half full.’

‘You probably had a glorious burst and took them all the night before.’

Miss Holderness looked shocked.

‘Oh, no—it would have been _dangerous_.’

‘Well, my dear, danger is the spice of life.’

He had reached the door, when she asked him if he would be in for lunch.
He said, ‘No,’ and went away out of the room and out of her life.

He did not very often drive to the office. His house was the one in
which he had been born, and his father and his grandfather before him.
Standing at what had been the edge of the town when it was built, there
was still a garden behind it, but the open spaces beyond were now all
quite built over. Since the distance to the office was under half a
mile, he was used to making the journey on foot.

This day did not differ from any of the other days, running into
uncounted numbers, on which he had shut the door briskly behind him,
stood for a moment to savour the air, and then come down the two shallow
steps on to the pavement, and turning to the right, set off in the
direction of Main Street, his hat a little on the side of his head and a
small leather case in his hand. At a quarter to ten he would be at the
near end of Main Street, and by the time the clock of St. Mary’s was
striking the hour he would be at his table looking through the morning’s
mail.

This Monday morning was no different from all the other Mondays. A dozen
people could remember afterwards that they had seen him and bidden him
good-morning. Each of them severally made the same comment in varying
tones of wonder——‘He looked just as usual’—‘He didn’t look no
different’—‘You wouldn’t have thought there was anything wrong.’

Mr. Holderness wouldn’t have thought it himself. It was a fine September
morning. He felt alert and vigorous, and very much on the top of the
world. His forebears came from the North of England. If it had been
their fortune to be born as much farther north as the Highland line, his
state of mind might have been described as ‘fey’. He had been in very
great danger, he had taken a very great risk. Risk is the spice of life.
He had pulled success out of failure, security out of danger, and he had
done it by the cleverness of his brain, by the swiftness of his thought
and the strength of his right hand. Not so bad for a man of sixty-five.
Younger men than he might have gone under. He had saved himself, and he
had saved the firm. The world was a good enough place.

He called Allan Grover in and asked him for the Jardine papers. When he
had brought them and gone away again, Mr. Holderness glanced after him,
frowning. The boy looked like nothing on earth—eyes bunged up, hand
shaking. His frown deepened. He hoped to goodness Grover hadn’t been
drinking. Wouldn’t do if he was going to start that sort of
thing—wouldn’t do at all. Always seemed a particularly steady young
fellow, but you never could tell.

He was bending his mind to the Jardine case, when he heard the footsteps
on the stair—heavy steps of more than one person, coming up the stairs
and along the passage to his room. He looked up, and that is how they
saw him as they came in, the Chief Constable and Inspector Drake. Behind
them Constable Whitcombe closed the door and stayed outside.

The door was shut. They stood just inside it looking at him, seeing the
upright figure in its well-cut suit, the thick grey hair, the dark
eyebrows arching over fine dark eyes, the florid colour. Except for the
modern dress he might have been his own great-grandfather. The thought
went through Randal March’s mind—eighteenth century, that’s what he is.
‘That they shall take who have the power, and they shall keep who can.’
He couldn’t remember where the lines came from, but they fitted.

The shadowy Stanway above the hearth gloomed on the room. There was just
a moment’s silence. A great deal can happen in a moment. The whole
towering structure built up in pride, self-will, and arrogance can come
to a crashing fall—a crashing and irrevocable fall.

Randal March came forward and said gravely,

‘We have come on a painful errand, Mr. Holderness——’

He showed nothing, except that his colour had deepened. He said,
‘Indeed?’ and he said it without a tremor.

Inspector Drake came up to the table and stood there. He brought out a
notebook and read from it.

‘Is the number of your car XXM 312?’

‘Certainly.’

‘We have information that it was parked on the grass verge outside the
drive of Melling House between ten and ten-twenty p.m. on the night of
Wednesday last, and again for about twenty minutes between nine-thirty
and ten o’clock on Saturday night.’

Mr. Holderness remained in his upright position, one hand on the table
edge, the other holding the paper which he had been perusing.

‘May I ask who has given you this information?’

‘Someone who knows the car. It will be sworn to.’

There was a faint crackling sound from the paper in Mr. Holderness’s
hand. His fingers had closed upon it. The sound must have attracted his
attention, for his eyes turned that way. His grip relaxed. He smoothed
the paper out and laid it down. When this had been done he said,

‘My clerk, Allan Grover in fact—he lives in Melling. Well, gentlemen, I
called upon Mrs. Welby on both those evenings. It is not a criminal
offence to call upon a pretty woman. One may not be anxious to advertise
the fact, especially to a tattling village, but I am quite willing to
admit that I paid those two calls. What of it?’

Drake said sharply, ‘You were in the neighbourhood of Melling House
between ten and ten-thirty on the Wednesday night.’

Mr. Holderness smiled.

‘I was calling on Mrs. Welby.’

‘At that hour?’

The smile was maintained.

‘My dear Inspector——’

‘You say that you were with Mrs. Welby?’

‘She will, I am sure, confirm it.’

There was a brief electric silence. Drake looked at the Chief Constable.

March said, ‘Do you not know that Mrs. Welby is dead?’

The hand which had held the paper was lifted with a jerk. It fell again
upon his knee. The florid colour had ebbed perceptibly. He said,

‘No—no—how shocking!’

‘You did not know?’

‘No, no—how could I?’

‘You were with her on Saturday night. She was found dead on Sunday
morning.’

‘How?’

‘An overdose of sleeping tablets.’

Mr. Holderness leaned back in his chair. He said under his breath,

‘It’s a great shock—I’ve known her since she was a child——’ And then,
‘Just give me a minute.’

When it was gone by, he had composed himself. He said soberly,

‘I see that I must tell you what I hoped not to have to tell. Mrs. Welby
was not exactly a client, but she was a very old friend who sometimes
asked my advice. She came here on Saturday morning and told me that she
was in a very serious position. I must tell you that she had been living
in the Gate House practically rent-free for some years. Mrs. Lessiter
had furnished it for her, and, rightly or wrongly, Mrs. Welby assumed
that all these furnishings were gifts. She even went so far as to sell
some of them. When Mr. Lessiter came home he at once took the matter
up—he came to see me about it. He suspected that some of the things had
been sold, amongst them a Cosway miniature of considerable value, and he
was in an extremely vindictive frame of mind. I did my best to mollify
him, but he persisted in his determination to prosecute if he could lay
his hands on sufficient evidence. On the Wednesday evening he rang me up
to say that he had found a memorandum left for him by his mother which
made it perfectly clear that the contents of the Gate House were lent to
Mrs. Welby, and not given. He reiterated his intention to prosecute.
Guessing that Mrs. Welby would have had a similar communication, and
knowing how distressed she would be, I got out of my car and went over
to see her.’ He paused.

When neither Drake nor the Chief Constable made any comment, he lifted
his hand in the same gesture as before, let it fall upon his knee, and
went on speaking.

‘I found her in a state of extreme distress. She told me she had been up
to Melling House to try and see James Lessiter, but finding that Miss
Cray was with him, she had come away again. She wanted me to go up and
see him, but I told her that I did not consider it would be at all a
prudent course—it would be very much better to allow him to sleep on
the matter. I told her that he would be sure to come and speak to me
about it, and that I would suggest to him the harm that would be done to
his own reputation if he were to proceed to extremities. I assured her
that it was most unlikely that he meant to do so. She said something
about making another attempt to see him herself, but I begged her not to
think of it. When I left her I believed that she had given up the idea.’
He paused, looked across at the Chief Constable, and said, ‘Do you not
wish to take any of this down? I see that the Inspector is not doing
so.’

March said gravely, ‘A statement can be taken later if you wish it. You
will realize, of course, that it may be used in evidence.’

‘Naturally. Well, I will continue. On Thursday morning I heard of James
Lessiter’s death. I was very much shocked. The police asked my
assistance with a view to ascertaining whether there was anything
missing from the house, and I accompanied the clerk who checked over the
inventory. Carr Robertson consulted me with regard to his position, and
I thought it right to pass on his information that Cyril Mayhew had been
seen in Lenton on the night of the murder. I advised young Robertson to
make a full statement to the police. On Saturday morning Mrs. Welby came
to see me. I do not feel at liberty to disclose all she said, but in the
circumstances I do feel bound to tell you that she intimated that she
did go back to Melling House after I left her on Wednesday night. Her
state of mind filled me with alarm. I begged her to go home and rest,
and I would come and see her in the evening. My position was a painful
one—I had known her since she was a child. I wanted time to think
things over. In the end she went away.’

Inspector Drake cleared his throat.

‘You reached Melling at about half past nine?’

‘It would be somewhere about that time. I didn’t look at my watch.’

‘How did you find Mrs. Welby?’

‘Much quieter. She had a tray with some coffee beside her. She offered
me a cup, but I refused. I said it would keep me awake. She smiled and
said it didn’t have that effect on her.’

‘How many cups were there on the tray?’

‘Only one. She was going to get another, when I stopped her.’

‘Mr. Holderness, why was there only one cup if she was expecting you?’

‘I had not said what time I would come.’

‘Was the coffee made when you got there?’

‘Yes—her cup was half empty.’

‘Doesn’t that seem strange to you, her not waiting for you if she knew
you were coming?’

Mr. Holderness brought his hands together and looked down at the joined
fingertips. He said in the easy tone he would have used to a client,

‘No, I don’t think so. She knew I didn’t take coffee. She always offered
it to me, but it was just a polite form—she knew I didn’t take it. I
didn’t stay very long, you know. Her manner reassured me, and she said
she would take a sedative and get a good night’s rest.’

‘She was in the habit of taking sedatives?’

Mr. Holderness met the look of sharp enquiry with a faint melancholy
smile.

‘I have no idea. If I had thought at the time that she meant anything
more than perhaps a couple of aspirins, I would not have left her.’

‘You did not see any box or bottle of sleeping tablets?’

‘Oh, no.’

There was a pause. Then Randal March said,

‘Mr. Holderness—your conversation with Mrs. Welby on Saturday morning
was overheard.’

As he said the words which he had come there to say he was conscious of
a certain sinking feeling. They had not behind them that firmness of
conviction which a case of this kind demanded. A fretted feeling that
for once in his life he had allowed himself to be rushed lurked in the
uneasy recesses of his mind. What had seemed not only possible but final
last night was no longer so. In this office, devoted for a hundred and
fifty years to the service of the law—under the authoritative gaze of
the latest of a line of respectable solicitors, it was extremely
difficult to resist the horrid supposition that Allan Grover in a fit of
jealousy might quite easily have been telling the tale. That the boy had
been infatuated with Catherine Welby and bitterly jealous of his
employer, and that he was now nearly beside himself with grief, were
self-evident facts. They were, indeed, the very basis of his story. In
the momentary silence which followed March’s statement these facts
offered very little encouragement.

As the moment passed, Mr. Holderness’s colour was seen to deepen
alarmingly. He said in an incredulous voice,

‘My conversation with Mrs. Welby was overheard?’

‘Yes.’

‘May I ask how, and by whom?’

Receiving no answer, he leaned forward and said in a voice vibrant with
anger.

‘No doubt the person who obliged you with the number of my car! An
eavesdropping clerk with his ear to the keyhole—a young man who had
made himself such a nuisance to Mrs. Welby that she had had to ask him
to discontinue his visits! She spoke of the matter to me, and in her
kindness begged me to take no notice of it. She had been good to the
young man, lending him books and helping him to improve himself, and now
as soon as she is dead this is the return he makes—to throw mud upon
her name!’

Randal March said, ‘In his account of the conversation he stated that he
heard Mrs. Welby tell you she returned to Melling House just after ten
o’clock on Wednesday night. She did not go in, because you were there.
According to Allan Grover’s statement she said that you were engaged in
a violent quarrel with James Lessiter, that he was accusing you of
having misappropriated money entrusted to you by his mother, and that he
was declaring his intention of taking proceedings against you. Grover
states that, according to what he heard Mrs. Welby say, she then gave up
any idea of seeing Lessiter herself and returned to the Gate House.’

Mr. Holderness regarded him with a majestic air.

‘An eavesdropper’s account of an interview between his employer and a
client—a morbid love-sick puppy’s account of his own jealous
imaginings! My dear Mr. March, you must be perfectly aware that this
sort of stuff isn’t evidence. No court of law would admit it.’

March said quietly, ‘I am telling you what he has said. His evidence as
to your car would be admitted.’

‘I have admitted it myself, and accounted for it in a perfectly
reasonable manner.’

‘Allan Grover will swear that he saw you come down the drive on
Wednesday night—and not from the Gate House.’

‘I have no doubt that he will be prepared to back his jealous fancies,
but I think I could make very short work of them.’ He paused, levelled a
brilliant indignant glance first at March and then at Drake, and said,
‘And now are you going to arrest me?’

His tone demanded and challenged. It had all the effect of a blunt ‘If
this is bluff, I call it.’ It increased the Chief Constable’s sense of
being on ground by no means secure against a most disastrous collapse,
whilst at the same time stimulating his determination to maintain that
ground. There was hardly any pause before he replied,

‘I am afraid we shall be obliged to make a search of the premises.’

Mr. Holderness laughed scornfully.

‘It would take you some time to go through all our deed-boxes. Perhaps
if you were to give me some idea of what you expect to find in them——’

‘I think, Mr. Holderness, we should like to begin with your safe.’

Still with that angry, dominating look, he threw himself back in his
chair.

‘And if I refuse?’

‘Inspector Drake has a search-warrant.’

The deep colour of fury rose to the very roots of the thick grey hair,
the dark eyes glared, the left hand lying on his knee jerked into a
clench, the right hand tightened upon the arm of the chair until every
knuckle showed as white as bone. To the two men who were watching him it
seemed as if at any moment all this intense rage and protest must break
into a violence of invective, yet moment by moment fell into the silence
and he made no sound. Then very slowly the purple colour ebbed away. The
eyelids dropped over the glaring eyes. When they rose again the paroxysm
was over. He was left very much his usual self—a little paler, a little
sterner, a little more dignified. He said,

‘Very well. I have, of course, no objection to offer. I do not know what
you expect to find. I should have thought my years of practice in this
town and the record of my firm might have protected me from what I can
only describe as an outrage. I have nothing to conceal, and I can only
hope that you will have as little to regret.’

He pushed back his chair, rose to his feet, and crossed to the left-hand
side of the hearth, where he stood in a very composed manner whilst he
pulled a steel chain out of his pocket and selected one of the keys
depending from it.

The panelling about the hearth was enriched with a double row of heavily
carved rosettes rising from the floor to a level with the mantelshelf,
after which they turned inwards to frame the Stanway portrait. Mr.
Holderness took hold of two of these rosettes and twisted them. There
was a click, and a section of the panelling started opening like a door
until it disclosed the steel front of a modern safe. Nothing could have
been more ordinary than the manner in which he unlocked the steel door,
set it wide, and withdrew the key.

He said, ‘There you are, gentlemen,’ and went back as far as his chair,
where he stood to watch them, one hand in his pocket, the other still
holding the bunch of keys.

The safe was fairly full. There were packets of docketed papers. Drake
lifted them out, only to find more of the same behind. These too were
taken out. Three old-fashioned leather cases followed. They contained an
amethyst necklace, set after the Victorian manner in heavy gold, with
two matching bracelets. As Drake opened the cases, Mr. Holderness
remarked in a sardonic manner,

‘I do not really know that these will help you—or Mr. Allan Grover.
They were my mother’s. Since my sister does not care to wear them, I
keep them here, and sometimes please myself with looking at them. They
are not of any great value.’

At the back of the safe two cardboard shoe-boxes stood one upon the
other. As Drake reached for them, Mr. Holderness’s hand came out of his
pocket. He walked round to the other side of the chair and sat down.
Drake lifted the first box clear and raised the lid. March saw a
crumpled mass of tissue paper, Drake’s hand with the reddish hairs on
the back taking it away, and under the paper a gold foot gleaming, the
long line of bare shining limbs—a golden rose-crowned Summer, ten
inches high.

Drake said, ‘There’s another, sir,’ but before the paper had fallen from
the companion Spring, Mr. Holderness groaned and slumped sideways in his
chair.




                               FORTY-TWO


Miss Silver was alone in Mrs. Voycey’s drawing-room. It being Monday,
Cecilia had gone forth with a shopping-basket to the Stores, from which
she would presently return replenished with groceries and gossip. Miss
Silver, for this time, had excused herself.

‘I should, perhaps, write a letter or two, so I feel that I would on the
whole prefer to stay at home this morning, if you will not think me
rude, my dear Cecilia.’

Mrs. Voycey did not think it at all rude. Stimulating as she found dear
Maud’s company, it would have made it difficult for her to have a
heart-to-heart talk with Mrs. Grover, and a heart-to-heart talk she
meant to have. On Bessie Crook’s authority, Maud Silver had sent for
Allan Grover yesterday evening, and when she, Bessie, had returned after
a good hour in Mrs. Grover’s parlour, not only was Allan still there,
but the Chief Constable’s car at the door, and he and Inspector Drake in
the drawing-room for the best part of three-quarters of an hour. And
when Mrs. Voycey herself got home from the evening service all Maud
could say was, ‘My dear Cecilia, I would tell you if I could, but at
present it is all very confidential.’

Cecilia Voycey had always been told that discretion was a virtue. She
would not for the world have denied or questioned it. All the same there
are virtues which are very well in the abstract, but which, encountered
in the flesh, can be a source of extreme irritation. Maud was perfectly
right of course, but Cecilia felt the need of an uninhibited gossip with
Mrs. Grover.

Miss Silver sat in the drawing-room and knitted. She was well away with
the second sleeve of little Josephine’s jacket, and hoped to finish it
before lunch. She would then crochet an ornamental edging all round and
furnish it with bows of washing ribbon, after which she could start upon
the knickers. The day being chilly, a small fire of logs burned on the
hearth, which was set with bright rose-coloured tiles. They did not
quite strike the same key as the damask curtains, which in their turn
just failed to hit it off with the paeonies, roses and other floral
adornments which bloomed so brightly on every chair and sofa. Miss
Silver, who liked colour and liked it in profusion, considered the whole
effect very tasteful, very bright. She had inhabited some drab
schoolrooms in her time.

She knitted, but her thoughts were far away. She did not exactly expect
a visit, but she thought it possible that she might receive a telephone
call.

When Randal March came into the room she rose to meet him and gave him
her hand. He clasped it strongly, held it for a little longer than
usual, and said in a tone of extreme gravity,

‘Well, you were right.’

As he released her and moved over to the fire, she said,

‘Did you arrest him?’

‘No. He had cyanide on him. He is dead.’

‘How extremely shocking!’

‘It will save a lot of scandal, but of course—it shouldn’t have
happened.’

She seated herself. He dropped into the chair on the other side of the
hearth and went on speaking.

‘You know, he put up such a good case that I began to think I was
heading for a crash. Even if Allan Grover’s evidence had been admitted
it could have been torn to shreds. Nobody loves the eavesdropper—and a
clerk eavesdropping on his employer!’ He made a gesture. ‘If it hadn’t
been for your backing, I would never have taken it as far as I did this
morning, and right in the middle I got one of the worst hollow sinkings
I can remember. The fellow was so respectable, so imposing, so
virtuously indignant—it just didn’t seem possible.’

‘What happened, Randal?’

‘We had a search-warrant. He opened his safe and stood back to watch us
whilst we turned it out. At some point in the proceedings he must have
walked round his chair and sat down with his back to us. He had the
poison on him, and he must have taken it when Drake fetched out two
shoe-boxes which were right at the back of the safe. Remember the gold
Florentine figures—the four Seasons? There were two of them in each
box. We had just got Summer out, when he groaned and fell over.’

Miss Silver repeated a previous comment.

‘Very shocking indeed.’

March said grimly, ‘I shall probably be criticized for having allowed it
to happen.’

‘You can hardly be said to have allowed it.’

‘No, but I was off my guard. The fact is, my mind was a good deal taken
up with the idea that we had bitten off more than we could chew.’

‘My dear Randal!’

‘Sorry—it slipped out. Anyhow that’s what I was feeling like. And then
Drake was opening one of those shoe-boxes, and I saw a golden foot
sticking out. Holderness must have seen it too, and once anyone had seen
it the game was up. I ought to have gone over to him at once, but I took
just that first moment to feel relieved and to see the figure come out
of the box, and by that time the mischief was done. Now why in heaven’s
name did he keep them?’

Miss Silver gave a gentle cough.

‘I imagine that there may have been two reasons. The loss of the figures
would suggest a burglary. And without doubt Mr. Holderness would be
aware that they were extremely valuable. He may have thought that he
would be able to dispose of them abroad by some roundabout method—there
are ways in which these things can be done. As far as keeping them in
his safe is concerned, where else would you expect him to keep them? The
possibility of suspicion falling on him would not, I think, have entered
his mind. He could lock the figures away and feel quite secure. And so
he would have been if it had not been for Allan Grover and your
search-warrant.’

He smiled at her.

‘You are too modest. The proper ending to that sentence is—“if it
hadn’t been for Miss Maud Silver.” And as to its being my
search-warrant, I can tell you there was a time when I came very near to
disowning it. I had some embittered thoughts about my own weakness in
having given way to your very considerable pressure. May I ask you now
what you did expect us to find?’

‘Just what you did find, Randal.’

‘The figures?’

‘If Mr. Holderness was the murderer, I had no doubt that they would be
there. And after hearing Allan Grover’s story I had no doubt that Mr.
Holderness was the murderer.’

‘Then it comes back to “if it hadn’t been for Miss Maud Silver.” ’

She was knitting industriously. Over the clicking needles she shook her
head.

‘Oh, no—I can claim no credit. I merely noticed one or two points, and
having met Allan Grover, I thought it might be helpful if I could have a
talk with him.’

Randal March continued to smile at her with a good deal of affection. He
leaned forward now and said,

‘Ah—those points. Are you going to tell me what they were? I should
very much like to know.’

‘Certainly, if you wish it. As you are aware, I came to the case with a
perfectly open mind. I knew none of the people, I had no preconceived
ideas, and I was therefore very much on the alert for the impressions
which I was bound to receive. To begin with Miss Cray. I found it quite
impossible to believe that she had any guilty knowledge. I found her
open, candid, honest, and extremely scrupulous about involving anyone
else. It was quite out of the question that she should have taken those
Florentine figures or committed a murderous attack upon Mr. Lessiter.’

The warm colour came up into Randal March’s face. He nodded and said,

‘Go on.’

Miss Silver measured the pale blue cuff which she was knitting. It
wanted half an inch of the right length. She pulled a fresh strand of
wool from the ball and continued.

‘With regard to her nephew Mr. Carr Robertson, my impressions came to me
almost entirely through other people. He was in no mood to allow me to
question him, and I did not expect him to do so. But when Miss Cray with
obvious sincerity declared that he had at first been quite certain that
it was she who had killed Mr. Lessiter, and that even now he was not
quite sure that she had not done so, I was inclined to accept her
statement, and to consider that the murderer must be looked for
elsewhere. The third suspect, Cyril Mayhew, I dismissed after hearing
what Allan Grover had to say. Everything else apart, if he had wished to
steal, there must have been many things which might have been taken and
either not missed for months or never missed at all. The extreme
improbability of his removing these noticeable ornaments from the room
most constantly occupied by Mr. Lessiter, and the certainty that such a
theft would immediately be discovered, occurred to me with considerable
force. The more I thought about it, the more it seemed clear that the
figures had been stolen, not only by someone who knew their value, but
by someone who intended that value to suggest a motive for Mr.
Lessiter’s murder which would disguise the real motive.’

March said, ‘That might have involved Carr Robertson.’

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘Superficially, yes—but actually, no. Consider the evidence. He has
suddenly discovered that it is James Lessiter who has seduced and
deserted his wife—he rushes out of the house. But he does not go up to
Melling House—he walks over to Lenton and spends quite a long time with
Miss Elizabeth Moore. They were at one time engaged, they had been
separated, they now become reconciled. It is just possible that a man in
those circumstances might commit a murder, but I think it extremely
improbable, and I certainly do not think that if he had done so he would
have brought that bloodstained raincoat home and introduced it to Miss
Cray with the accusing remark, “Why did you do it?” ’

‘He did that——’

‘Yes, Randal. It convinced Miss Cray of his innocence, and it convinced
me. Though I had not seen much of him, I had received a very definite
impression of his character. He might have been worked up to the point
of violence, but he was incapable of duplicity or theft. And if he had
killed Mr. Lessiter, it was inconceivable that he should have tried to
shift the blame on to Miss Cray.’

‘Yes, that’s true enough, and where did you go from there?’

She coughed gently.

‘I considered Mrs. Welby, but I could not arrive at any conclusion. Both
from my own observation and from what I had heard about her I judged her
to be of a cold and self-centred disposition. I was sure that she was
untruthful, and I suspected that she was dishonest.’

He raised his eyebrows.

‘How devastating! All that, but not murder?’

She shook her head reprovingly.

‘I could not believe that she could have brought herself to hit a man
over the head with a poker. If she had been going to murder anyone she
would, I am sure, have employed poison. A woman of her fastidious
refinement would have to be carried quite outside herself with passion
before she could kill a man in so brutal a manner. And Mrs. Welby was, I
am convinced, incapable of being carried out of herself by passion. All
the same, I was sure she knew something that she was keeping back, which
was of course the case.’

Leaning back in his chair, March looked at her with a half quizzical
admiration.

‘And now we come to Mr. Holderness. You know, I really would like to
know how you got there.’

‘In the simplest manner in the world.’ She paused to measure the pale
blue cuff, and finding it long enough, began to cast off. ‘The whole
thing really turns on those gold figures. They were not taken by
accident, but for a definite purpose. I believed that purpose to be
twofold. The value of the figures entered into it, and the question of
making the whole affair appear to be the result of a burglary. I had to
consider who would have the necessary special knowledge about the
figures. I had already discarded Miss Cray, Mr. Carr Robertson, and Mrs.
Welby. The latter might have taken them so far as any moral scruples
were concerned, but she was already under suspicion owing to her
previous misappropriations, and I was sure she was much too clear-headed
to have added to her danger by so compromising a theft.’

‘Did you never consider the Mayhews? They could hardly have helped
knowing all about the figures.’

‘I think they probably took them for granted. When a thing has always
been there, you do not think about it. I was naturally struck by Mrs.
Mayhew’s extreme distress and prostration, but this was explained by her
anxiety on account of her son. As soon as this was relieved, she made a
remarkable recovery. As regards Mr. Mayhew I found that he enjoyed the
respect of everyone in Melling. I think in a village it would be very
difficult for him to bear the kind of character he bears without
deserving it. Also, on comparison of the time of his arrival by bus from
Lenton with the time of Mr. Carr Robertson’s visit, it did not seem
possible that he could have committed the murder. Mr. Robertson must
have reached Melling House about ten-thirty. Mr. Lessiter was dead and
the raincoat heavily stained. Mr. Mayhew, I believe, came out from
Lenton on the last bus, which does not arrive until eleven. I had,
therefore, to consider who else would be likely to know about the
figures. It was at this point that the name of Mr. Holderness presented
itself.’

‘But my dear Miss Silver——’

She gave him a look faintly tinged with reproof.

‘I did not say that I suspected him. His name presented itself as that
of a person who must surely have known the value of the figures.’

‘They were entered in the inventory and for probate merely as four gilt
figures.’

She coughed.

‘I found that a suspicious circumstance. It was common knowledge that
Mrs. Lessiter was on very confidential terms with her solicitor, and
according to Miss Cray she was both proud of the figures, which were a
legacy from her side of the family, and fond of talking about them to
her intimates. I thought it impossible that Mr. Holderness should not
have known their history.’

March said dryly, ‘He evidently did.’

‘I was sure of it. The next thing that attracted my attention was Mr.
Holderness’s advice to Mr. Carr Robertson, who had consulted him
professionally. He advised him to make a full statement to the police.’

‘Very correct.’

With some half dozen stitches left on her last needle, Miss Silver
paused in her task of casting off.

‘My dear Randal, it is no part of a solicitor’s duty to advise a course
which must lead to the immediate arrest of his client at so early a
stage and with an inquest pending. The reason why Mr. Carr Robertson was
not arrested was, I imagine, the emergence at that time of a new suspect
in Cyril Mayhew. But my attention had been once more directed to Mr.
Holderness. I found myself wondering why he should have given his client
such dangerous advice.’

‘You are very acute.’

‘We now come to the matter of the telephone conversations as reported by
Gladys Luker. I was extremely anxious for this information. Miss Cray
was protecting Mrs. Welby and would give me no help, but I had rather
more than a suspicion that Gladys would be able to do so. She is the
niece of Mrs. Voycey’s housekeeper, and I had learned from Mrs. Crook
that the girl seemed to have something on her mind. When you let me see
a copy of her statement I was struck by the recurrence of Mr.
Holderness’s name. Consider those two calls and their implications. Mr.
Lessiter had been looking for a memorandum left by his mother. He has,
by all accounts, turned the house upside down to find it. When he finds
it, what is the first thing he does? He asks Gladys Luker for Mr.
Holderness’s private number. She only catches the first words he says,
but they are quite illuminating. He says, “Good evening, Mr. Holderness.
I’ve found my mother’s memorandum.” A little later, when he is ringing
up Mrs. Welby, he says the same thing, “Well, Catherine, I’ve found the
memorandum.” After which he goes on to tax her with misappropriation of
his property, and after stating his intention to prosecute he says,
“I’ve an old score to settle, and I always settle my scores. I’ve just
been ringing old Holderness up.” Randal, those words made me think very
seriously indeed. They would pass as an indication that he had consulted
his solicitor about Mrs. Welby’s fault, but I rather doubted if he would
have rung Mr. Holderness up at that hour, and at his private address, if
he had not had some more particular reason. In the light of those two
telephone conversations, both beginning in the same way, and the remark
about paying off old scores—not an old score, you will observe—I began
to consider whether the memorandum referred to might not contain
something which would embarrass Mr. Holderness as well as Mrs. Welby.
Mrs. Lessiter’s circumstances would have made a fraudulent manipulation
of funds comparatively easy. She was not businesslike. She trusted her
solicitor, and treated him as an intimate friend. Her son had been
absent for so many years that no one expected him to return, or to take
any great interest in his mother’s dispositions.’

She cast off the last stitch, pulled the wool through the loop, drew it
tight, and transfixed the pale blue ball with the needles she had been
using.

‘Well, Randal, there you have what was in my mind. When it came to Mrs.
Welby’s death, I found myself unable to believe that she had committed
suicide. I felt sure that she had not murdered James Lessiter, but I
also felt sure that she knew a good deal about the crime. Those
footprints under the lilacs were hers. I paid her a visit after their
discovery, and she was very much alarmed. My impression with regard to
Mr. Holderness’s connection with the affair was naturally deepened when,
after her death, I found Mrs. Welby had hastened in to Lenton by an
early bus on Saturday morning and gone straight to his office.’

‘And how in the world did you know that?’

She answered very composedly,

‘Gladys Luker was off duty and went out on the same bus. She had been
made very unhappy by Allan Grover’s infatuation for Mrs. Welby, and she
followed her to see whether it was her intention to visit the office in
which he was employed.’

He made a mock gesture of despair.

‘How can a poor policeman compete? You can take the village lid off and
see how the wheels are going round. Gladys and Allan are people to you.
You know their relations to the ninth or tenth degree, where I don’t
even know that they exist!’

She gave him a deprecating smile.

‘You are falling into Frank Abbott’s trick of exaggeration. I am only
trying to convey to you how very small and slight were my grounds for
suspicion when I decided to ask Allan Grover if he would come and see
me. I could not have anticipated what he had to disclose, but it was
village talk that he haunted the neighbourhood of the Gate House, and I
thought it just possible that he might have seen or heard something of
interest either on the Wednesday or the Saturday night.’

She folded little Josephine’s jacket neatly and put it away in her
knitting-bag.

‘Well, Randal, I do not think there is anything more that I can tell
you. As soon as I had heard what Allan had to say I rang you up. I
suppose there can be no doubt that Mr. Holderness went to the Gate House
on Saturday night with every intention of silencing the woman who had it
in her power to implicate him in James Lessiter’s murder. She had
already shown him plainly that she intended to make a profit out of what
she knew. I am constantly amazed at the criminal folly of the amateur
blackmailer. It does not seem to occur to them that the course on which
they have embarked is not only unprincipled but extremely dangerous, and
that where the crime in question is murder their attempt is only too
likely to lead to a second fatality. I do not suppose that Mrs. Welby
gave a thought to the danger she was inviting. Mr. Holderness was
evidently in the habit of visiting her. When he arrived on Saturday
evening she received him as usual. She made coffee——’

March interrupted her.

‘The fact that there was only the one cup on the tray is accounted for.
His explanation is that he never took coffee, though she always offered
it. He said it kept him awake, and added that it did not have the same
effect on her. In the circumstances I found that rather grim.’

Miss Silver inclined her head.

‘I think he would have brought the sleeping tablets with him, probably
already dissolved. He could easily distract her attention for long
enough to give him the opportunity of introducing the mixture into the
coffee. We know from Allan Grover that he did not stay for more than
twenty minutes. She had drunk the coffee, and was probably already
beginning to feel drowsy. He had, doubtless, made himself very charming,
and had promised everything she asked. There was nothing to wait for. He
left her and drove home.’

‘Yes—it would have been like that.’ He got to his feet. ‘There will be
quite a lot of ends to tidy up. Drake will be in his element.’

He took both her hands and held them for a moment.

‘I am going to Rietta. Don’t tell anyone yet, but I’m going to be the
happiest man in the world.’




                              FORTY-THREE


After all, it was not until a good deal later that Randal March rang the
bell at the White Cottage. When he looked at his watch on Mrs. Voycey’s
front doorstep and found that it was past half past twelve, he decided
to run out to Lenton and lunch there before trying to see Rietta, who
would at this moment be engaged in the homely task of getting the midday
meal. He considered that he would certainly be in the way, and that no
reasonable chance of seeing her alone would occur until after two.

At a quarter to he had his finger on the bell. Coming to the door,
Rietta Cray stood for a moment looking at him. They looked at one
another. Then he put his arm round her, took her through to the
living-room, and shut the door. They had a great deal to say. Time
slipped by whilst it was said. They talked quietly, gravely, soberly,
but behind everything, and constantly gaining in strength, there was a
deep sense of having come home.

After a little silence Rietta said,

‘I don’t think we ought to be engaged.’

Randal laughed.

‘I would rather be married.’

‘I didn’t mean that.’

‘What did you mean?’

‘I don’t think we ought to be engaged until all this horrid business is
over.’

He took her hand and held it.

‘My dear, there’ll be the inquest, and, I suppose, three funerals, and
then as far as we are concerned there will be no more to say. I agree
that we should wait until all that sort of thing is over, if that is
what you mean. If, on the other hand, you are suggesting that we should
put off our marriage until Melling has stopped talking about the affair,
I am not taking any.’

‘People will talk.’

‘They always have—they do—they always will. It amuses them quite a
lot, and it doesn’t really hurt us at all. I shall write to my mother
tonight, and you can tell Carr. The village can wait for a week. By the
way, I’ve told Miss Silver. She is the soul of discretion. But, of
course, she knew already—I gave myself away half a dozen times.’

She said, ‘So did I,’ and they fell into a brief companionable silence,
hands linked, thoughts ranging. His went back to their meeting at the
edge of the common, her face, caught by the headlights, a blanched mask
of tragedy. Now, in the daylight, what a change. Her eyes had their calm
beauty again. There was bloom, softness, colour. As he watched, it
brightened. She said,

‘About the Mayhews—’

He burst out laughing.

‘How in the world did you get to the Mayhews?’

She looked surprised.

‘I was thinking about them. I went up to see Mrs. Mayhew this morning.’

‘Why?’

‘Mrs. Fallow said she wanted to see me.’

‘And why did she want to see you?’

‘Well, you know, Randal, it really is extraordinary how things get round
in a village. She wanted to see me because she thought perhaps you could
do something about Cyril.’

‘Do you mind saying that again, darling?’

Her lips trembled into a smile.

‘I know it sounds funny, but that’s what she said.’

‘She wanted to see you because she thought I could do something about
Cyril? It doesn’t look to me as if we should have to do very much about
giving out our engagement!’

They were both laughing. Rietta said,

‘Things do get round.’

‘They do! Well—what am I supposed to do about Cyril?’

She was serious again.

‘Well, it’s this way. He did come down on Wednesday, and he came because
he was desperate for money. And she took some of her husband’s savings
and let Cyril have them—she didn’t tell me how much. But the point is
this. The wretched boy was in trouble a year ago and was put on
probation. He got into bad company, and now one of his old associates is
blackmailing him on account of something which didn’t come out at the
time.’

‘We can soon put a stop to that.’

‘What can you do?’

‘Get on to the Probation Officer—he’ll see the boy. And you’d better
tell Mrs. Mayhew to write and tell him to make a clean breast of
everything. He’ll be all right if he does that.’

After a little she said,

‘Randal, about that money of James’s—I’d like to tell you what he said
about it.’

‘What did he say?’

‘He showed me the will, like I said in my statement. I said it was
nonsense and put it on the fire, but he picked it off. He said if he was
making another will, he would probably do the same thing all over again,
and that he would rather I had the money than anyone else. And then he
asked me what I would do with it, and at first I said I wouldn’t discuss
it, but when he said, “Well, just as a hypothetical case—” I told him.’

‘And what did you tell him?’

‘Oh, just an old sort of dream of mine. No, dream isn’t right, because
it was a sort of plan, only I hadn’t any money to do it with, and of
course the place didn’t belong to me.’

He was watching her with delight.

‘Darling, do I know what you are talking about?’

‘Yes—Melling House. It did seem such a pity it should stand empty when
there were all those rooms, and people all over the country with nowhere
to go—particularly elderly people. After having a home of their own and
being the head of a family, it’s so really horrid for them to have to go
and live with a daughter-in-law on sufferance. It’s hard on the
daughter-in-law too. In fact it’s wrong all round. So I told James I
would turn the house into little flats—one room—two rooms—and the big
ground-floor rooms a dining-hall and for recreation. He seemed quite
interested. I hadn’t liked him so much since I was twenty-one. And then
when I thought he was all softened I began to ask him not to harry
Catherine the way he was doing, and he was so abominable about her that
I lost my temper. I told him just what I thought of him and walked
out—and that’s how I came to forget that wretched raincoat.’

There was a pause. Then he said,

‘You mean to take the money then?’

She looked surprised.

‘Oh, yes. He wanted me to have it—he really did, you know. And there
are no near relations. In fact I don’t really know that there are any
relations. Catherine and I were both distantly connected—and
Catherine’s gone. I should like Melling House to be some good to
somebody, and I think it would be nice for the Mayhews.’

This was in such a practical voice that it made him laugh.

‘That settles it, of course!’

‘Well, they would hate to move, and they would fit in. It’s nice when
things fit in all round.’ Then, a little more hesitatingly, ‘You won’t
mind, will you? My taking the money, I mean.’

It occurred to him that it was typical of Rietta to be afraid that he
might not like her to be enriched. He found himself answering honestly,

‘A little.’

‘Please don’t. You needn’t. He wasn’t in love with me, or I with him. I
think he just thought I’d use it——’ She paused for a word, and then
said, ‘sensibly.’

At this moment the door opened and Fancy Bell ran in, checked with
graceful abruptness about a yard from the threshold, and said, ‘Oh, I
beg your pardon!’

Rietta said, ‘Don’t go away. You know Mr. March——’

‘But I didn’t know he was here, though I did wonder when you didn’t hear
the telephone, because you generally do, and—I’m so sorry Mr.
March—how do you do?’

Randal shook hands with her. She wore her scarlet suit and looked quite
distractingly pretty. Her eyes shone, and her colour came and went. She
turned back to Rietta, a little breathless.

‘So I thought I had better answer it—and it was Carr. And Mr. March
being here, I expect you know it’s all out about Mr. Holderness being
the one that murdered everyone, and his committing suicide and all. I
thought I’d be the first to tell you, but Mr. March being here——’

Rietta said, ‘Yes, he told me.’

After a momentary disappointment Fancy brightened.

‘And Carr’s bringing Elizabeth Moore over to tea, and they’re giving out
they’re engaged. He says I’m to call her Elizabeth. He sounded ever so
pleased. It’s nice, isn’t it, and makes a sort of change after these
murders. I mean, they’re all very well in the newspapers, but when it
comes to having them right where you live, and the police in the
house—’ A wave of perfectly lovely colour swept up to the roots of her
hair. ‘Oh, Mr. March, I didn’t mean to be rude!’

He laughed.

‘Don’t worry—I’m off duty.’

‘I only meant—Miss Cray, I only meant—well, an engagement does make a
nice change, doesn’t it?’

Rietta said quite simply and earnestly,

‘Yes, it does.’




                           