Rosamond walked in the dark wood. The trees were leafless overhead and
the earth soft and damp underfoot with the thick carpet strewn there by
the autumn winds. There had been so much rain in the last few days and
nights that the dead leaves no longer rustled as she walked. The wood
lay at the bottom of the garden, but once you had passed the two great
oak trees which guarded the entrance you might have been a hundred miles
away from that, or from the house, or the road which lay beyond the
winding drive. Out of sight, out of mind. What the eye does not see the
heart does not grieve over. Those were old true proverbs. If you could
not see the road, what did it matter who travelled along it? If you
could not see the house, what did it matter who lived there? Whether it
was the long ago Crewes who had had their time of fame and fortune, or
Lydia Crewe who had been born too late for it and spent a grey life
mourning for the loss, or whoever was to come after her, whether it was
Rosamond and Jenny Maxwell or another? Once you were in the wood, it
didn’t matter at all, because there wasn’t any house to be compassed
with observances and served with bended knees. There wasn’t any past or
future. There was only the earth which had brought forth the trees, and
the sky which made an arch above them. And that was why Rosamond walked
in the wood. She could slip out of the everyday life in which she rose
at six and worked with hardly any moment free until at the long end of
the day she lay down upon her bed and slept. For which reason she had
somehow found the means to hoard or snatch these moments of escape. She
had realized long ago that if she did not have them she would not be
able to go on. She must be able to get away to where she was no longer
just someone who answered bells, wrote letters, did the shopping, gave a
hand here, there and everywhere, and generally kept things going. She
must be able to get away—

But there was someone whom she could not leave behind her. She could
never leave Jenny, because Jenny was in her heart, and you cannot leave
your heart behind you however far you go. So now as she walked in the
wood, the thought of Jenny came with her and walked there too. A foolish
loving picture, because the real Jenny would have hated to walk in a
damp wood with only leafless boughs between her golden head and the
night sky. Jenny loved warmth and colour and light, Jenny loved voices
and music, and the bright glow of the fire. She could never understand
why Rosamond left these things to go down through the dripping garden to
walk in a lonely wood. But then she had long ago made up her mind that
grown-up people did very odd things. Now, when she was grown-up herself
she had quite made up her mind what she would do. She wouldn’t stay
stuck down in the country—not once she could choose for herself. She
would go up to London, and she would live in a flat right on the top of
the highest house she could find and whoosh up and down in a fast
exciting lift—the sort where you press a button whenever you want to
and it’s just like flying. And she would write books that would sell for
thousands and thousands of pounds, and her back wouldn’t bother her any
more, so she would go dancing every night and have the most wonderful
dresses in the world. Of course she would give half the money to
Rosamond, because Rosamond would have to come too. She couldn’t do
without her. Not yet—not till she was quite grown up, and that wouldn’t
be for another five or six years, till she was seventeen or eighteen. It
seemed a terribly long time to wait.

Down in the wood Rosamond watched the tracery of black branches against
the soft deep grey of the sky. She had been standing quite still for a
long time. Something small and furry ran over her foot. An owl swooped.
It was as white as a cloud and it made no sound. It swooped, and it was
gone as if it had never been. Very faint and far away the clock of the
village church struck six. She drew in a long breath of the cold, damp
air and went out between the oak trees into the everyday world again.




                               CHAPTER 2


She came in by a side door and along an unlighted passage to the hall,
where a single bulb diffused what did not amount to much more than a
glimmer. The big fireplace was a black cave, the stairway plunged in
gloom, the door with its massive bolts like something to keep a prisoner
in, or a true love out. Jenny used it constantly in the tales she wrote.
She had a secret fear of it, as she had of the shadowy ancestors who
stared down from their portraits upon the hall where they had walked,
and talked, and laughed, and loved, and hated in the old days.

These were Jenny’s thoughts, not Rosamond’s. Once she had come out of
the wood, Rosamond had no time for fancies. The hall was dark because
electric light cost money, and having spent what she considered a vast
sum on putting it in, Miss Lydia Crewe was at some pains to ensure that
it should be as little used as possible. How much money there really
was, no one had any idea but Lydia Crewe. The house was to be kept up,
but there was no money for what she considered the fantastic wages of
the present day. The old furniture must be polished, the old silver must
be bright, and since Mrs. Bolder in the kitchen and the couple of
village girls who came in by the day could not possibly achieve the
standard she demanded, it was Rosamond who must make good what they left
undone.

She was crossing the hall, when there was a knocking on the heavy door.
If the bell had rung, Mrs. Bolder might have heard it, or she might not.
In the face of a good deal of pressure she retained a strong conviction
that it was not her place to answer the front door bell. There should
have been a butler to do that, or at least a parlourmaid. That Miss
Rosamond should answer it really shocked her. It wasn’t what she had
been used to, and she didn’t know what things were coming to. But as to
herself, farther than the back door she wouldn’t demean herself, not if
it was ever so.

Rosamond, being fully aware of these sentiments, concluded that the bell
must have been ringing for some time, and that the now continuous
knocking was a last desperate effort to attract attention. As she drew
back the bolts she wondered who could be there, since anyone who knew
the ways of the house would come round to the west wing where Lydia
Crewe kept her state and she and Jenny were tucked away.

She opened the door and saw Craig Lester standing there—beyond him the
vague shape of a car. What light there was showed him big and solid in a
heavy coat. When for a moment he said nothing, the height and bulk of
him began to seem oppressive. There was something strange about the way
he just stood there and looked, as if there were things to be said
between them and he could not come by the words. The impression was
there as she drew in her breath, and gone before she could take another.

And then he was saying in a deep, pleasant voice,

“Is this Crewe House?”

It might be someone asking his way. But apparently it was not, for right
on the top of her “Yes” he was asking for Jenny—Jenny!

“I’ve called to see Miss Jenny Maxwell.”

“Jenny?”

“I am not speaking to her, am I?”

He did not think so for a moment—it was the obvious thing to say. Her
“Oh, no,” was what he expected.

As she spoke she turned a little, her hand still on the door, and with
what light there was no longer directly behind her, he could see that
there was really no mistake. He hadn’t expected her to be Jenny Maxwell,
and he had no idea who she was now, but that she was the original of the
photograph he could not doubt. The tall, graceful figure, the dark
clustering hair, the way she held her head—all these had brought
conviction even before she turned. Now, looking from the darkness of the
porch, he saw her face in the faintly glowing twilight which filled the
hall. It was rather like seeing a reflection in water, because he could
only guess at the colour which a fuller light would show. The eyes were
shadowed. They might be brown, or grey, or a very dark blue. But the
brows over them were the brows of the picture, strongly marked, with the
odd lift and tilt which gave the face its own decided character. Another
woman might have the wide generous mouth, the line of cheek and chin,
but those lifting brows could belong to no one else. They certainly
didn’t belong to the Jenny Maxwell who had written to him. He said,

“It is rather a late hour to call, I’m afraid, but I was passing this
way, and I hoped that it might be possible for me to see her. I ought to
have been here earlier, but I had a puncture, and then I lost my way in
your winding lanes.”

She took a step back.

“Jenny?”

“Miss Jenny Maxwell. She lives here, doesn’t she?”

“Yes—”

Her voice had a doubtful tone. A perfectly strange man coming in out of
the night and wanting to see Jenny—it didn’t seem to be the sort of
thing that happened, and here it was, happening. She said with a simple
directness which he liked,

“I am her sister, Rosamond Maxwell. Do you mind telling me why you want
to see Jenny?”

He said, “She wrote to me.”

“Jenny wrote to you?”

He nodded.

“She didn’t tell you?”

“No—no—”

“And you don’t know who I am?”

He produced a card and held it out. She read, “Mr. Craig Lester.” Under
the words a second name was added in pencil—“Pethertons.”

Rosamond began to understand. She stood back a little farther. He came
across the threshold, took the door from her hand, and shut it behind
him.

“You mean you are from Pethertons the publishers? Jenny wrote to them?”

He laughed.

“I seem to be betraying a confidence! But she isn’t very old, is she?”

Rosamond said,

“Jenny is twelve—and she should have told me. I am just wondering where
we can talk. You see, most of the house isn’t used—it will all be
dreadfully cold. My aunt has her rooms, and Jenny and I have a
sitting-room, but I would rather talk to you first, if you wouldn’t mind
its being not at all warm.”

He was so much intrigued that he would have accepted an invitation to
the arctic circle. Certainly he would have done a good deal more than
follow her across the glimmering hall to a door which opened under the
sweep of the stair.

As she switched on a single overhead light, the room sprang into view,
small, with panelled walls whose ivory tint had deepened with age almost
to the color of _café-au-lait_. There were cracks in the paint, and
there were worn places in the pale flowered carpet. That was the first
effect that struck him, the cool pallor of the room—brocaded curtains
and coverings so faintly tinted that they might have been wraiths of
their own forgotten beauty—mirrors framed in tarnished gold, the glass
too dim to reflect anything more substantial than a mist. But there was
no dust on the exquisite old china which graced the mantelpiece, on the
William and Mary cabinet, on the elegant pie-crust table between the
windows. If the room breathed the very atmosphere of disuse, it was to
the eye most beautifully kept. Craig Lester’s eye was a discerning one.
At a single glance it provided him with a good deal of food for thought.

He saw Rosamond seat herself, took the big winged chair which she
offered him, and observed with satisfaction that her eyes were, as he
had hoped, not brown or grey, but that very dark blue. But like the
room, she was pale. Her lips should have been redder, and there should
have been colour in her cheeks. And she was thin—the delicate line of
the cheek fell in a little. He saw that her clothes were shabby—an old
tweed skirt, an old blue jumper, thick country shoes. The shoes looked
damp, and there was moisture caught in her hair. He felt suddenly
ashamed of his own warm coat. If she had been out in those thin clothes,
and he was sure she had—

To her “You really won’t be too cold here?” he found himself replying
roughly,

“But it’s you. I’ve got a coat, but what about you? If you’ve been out
with no more on than that—”

There was something about the way she smiled that wasn’t like anyone
else. It had a quality which eluded him. Afterwards he thought that it
was kindness.

She said,

“It was only to the bottom of the garden. There’s a wood there—I like
to walk in it.”

“In the dark?”

“Oh, yes. It’s so restful.”

He knew then how tired she was. She was pale because she was tired. An
extraordinary fierce anger sprang up in him. It left him astounded at
himself, and with the feeling that what had started out as a momentary
whim was about to turn, or had already turned, into a dangerous venture.
He said nothing because there was nothing to say, unless he said too
much. To have come here at all was an act of incredible folly. Or the
wisest thing he had ever done in his life.

She looked at him, a little surprised, a little doubtful. The impression
she had had of him when she opened the door was borne out now in the
lighted room. Some of the bulk was accounted for by the heavy tweed
coat, but there was breadth and strength beyond the common. His features
too were broad and strong and very deeply tanned under thick dark hair
so closely cropped as almost to defeat a vigorous tendency to curl.
Almost, but not quite. Dark eyes, dark eyebrows, and, at the moment, a
dark angry look. She did not know how it was possible for her to have
offended him, but it certainly seemed as if she must have done so. Yet
she had only spoken of the room being cold—and of walking in the wood.
Now why had she done that? The wood was her secret place, the only place
where she could think her own thoughts and be alone. She did not know
why she had spoken of it to Craig Lester, or why it should have angered
him. Her thoughts showed in her face—doubt—a shade of timidity just
touched by surprise. And then she was saying,

“You wanted to talk about Jenny. You said she wrote to you?”

The dark look vanished. Laughter sparkled in his eyes. She liked the way
they crinkled at the corners.

“She sent us some of her work.”

“Oh—” The soft sound breathed dismay.

“She wrote—a very precise and grown-up letter. She didn’t say how old
she was—after all, one doesn’t in a business letter. It was rather on
the lines of, ‘Miss Jenny Maxwell presents her compliments to Messrs.
Pethertons and begs to submit the enclosed manuscripts for their
consideration’.”

Rosamond’s eyes widened, her lips twitched. She said,

“Oh dear!” And then, “That’s rather the way my aunt writes business
letters. She is my great-aunt. She dictates to me. There was one a
little while ago about a lease—the last bit sounds as if it had come
out of that. She was writing to her solicitor, and she begged to submit
it for his consideration.”

He threw back his head and laughed. She said at once in a tone of
distress,

“You won’t laugh at Jenny—not when you see her, will you, Mr. Lester?
She’s proud and sensitive, and her writing means a tremendous lot to
her. It would upset her dreadfully if you were to laugh at it, and it’s
bad for her to be upset. You see, she was in a very bad motor smash two
years ago. At first they thought she would die, and when she didn’t,
they thought she would never be able to walk again.”

He saw the muscles of her face tighten and the moisture come to her
lashes. He began to speak, but she put out a hand to stop him.

“I don’t know why I said that—they don’t think so now. My aunt offered
to take us in, and Jenny has got on so wonderfully here. She can walk a
little now, and they say she is going to be perfectly all right, only
she must have a quiet, regular life, and she has got to be kept happy.
If she is worried or upset she slips back again, so she mustn’t be
worried or upset. And the chief thing that keeps her happy is her
writing. You see, it’s dull for her. There aren’t any other children,
and if there were, she wouldn’t really be up to playing with them, but
when she writes it’s like going into another life. She can make her own
companions, and she can do all the things which she hasn’t been able to
do since the accident. You don’t know how thankful I’ve been—” She
broke off and looked at him, her colour risen, her eyes dark and bright
with tears. “You won’t laugh at her, will you, or say anything to
discourage her?”

He said, “No, no, of course not. But I am afraid—”

“I didn’t mean anything about publishing what she sent you. Of course
you can’t do that—she’s much too young. But if there is anything you
could say—”

He laughed.

“Oh, there’s quite a lot! Of course at present she’s copying most of the
time—picking the plums out of other people’s pies. But every now and
then there’s an original turn. If she was to start observing for herself
and putting it down in words of her own—” he sketched a gesture—“well,
I don’t know, but she might get somewhere. This whole business of the
infant phenomenon is as tricky as you please. I’ve seen quite
extraordinary verse produced by a child of five or six—a couple of
fragments, and never another line. It generally happens when they are
emerging from the nursery and before the deadening influence of
education gets going on them. Practically every child of that age can
act, and quite a lot of them can produce some kind of highly original
work, but the minute they get to school it’s all over. The herd instinct
asserts itself, and from then on the most frightful thing in the world
is not to be exactly like everyone else. Jenny is past the usual age,
but she has been segregated from the herd, so if she really has any
originality it may survive.”

She leaned towards him a little.

“Mr. Lester—what do you really think about her work?”

“I’ve been telling you. What do you really think yourself?”

“She doesn’t show it to me. I told you she was proud. She won’t risk
criticism, and whatever I said, she would know what I was thinking.”

“If she is going to be a writer she will have to face criticism—and
accept it.”

She said very directly,

“If she is going to be a writer—don’t you see, that is what I want to
know. She hasn’t got anyone but me. I want to know how much I ought to
encourage her. Anything she takes up is bound to be more important to
her than it would be if she were able to join in all the things that
other children do. Ought I to encourage her to think of it as a career
or—”

He said, “Or?” and saw a flush come up into her face.

“No, there isn’t any or. I couldn’t discourage her. She hasn’t got
enough for it to be possible to take anything away.”

He found himself sharing her mood, instead of being able to stand back
from it and criticize. They were being ridiculously intense. All right.
And so what? He supposed he had it in him to be intense as well as the
next man. He said, speaking with deliberation,

“I can’t tell you what you want to know, because, as I have already
said, these things fizzle out. But I don’t see why that should trouble
you. There isn’t anything that could be published now. All that you’ve
got to do is to let her have her head—let her go on writing. She will
anyhow, until she finds out—we all find out—whether she can make a
good job of it, or whether she can’t. Meanwhile see that she has the
right things to read—don’t let her fritter away her taste on trash. I
suppose there’s a library in a house like this?”

She gave him a rueful smile.

“Very old-fashioned.”

He laughed.

“Scott—Dickens—and the other Victorians!”

“She won’t read them.”

“Starve her till she does. Stop the rubbish. If she doesn’t get it
she’ll be hungry enough to fall to on wholesome food. By the way, what
does she read? No, you needn’t tell me—I know. ‘He pressed a long
burning kiss upon her lips. “My love, my love!” she cried’. All that
sort of thing!”

The dark blue eyes widened.

“Oh! Did she write that?”

He grinned.

“And a lot more like it, only in one place she made it a bitter kiss.
And there was something about ‘tears salt on the lips’. That mightn’t
have been copied.”

“But—she oughtn’t to be writing about things like that. I mean, if it’s
just copying, it doesn’t matter so much, but if she thought of that for
herself—”

He had another of those unpredictable spurts of anger. Her look of
distress had been poignant. What did she know about kisses washed in
tears?

She said doubtfully,

“I suppose you had better see her.”




                               CHAPTER 3


They came out into the hall again and across it to a long dark passage.
The light which Rosamond switched on was up in the ceiling and as faint
as candle light. There was no sound anywhere, until quite suddenly an
electric bell buzzed, and went on buzzing. The sound came from behind a
door on the left. It was perfectly plain that somebody wanted something
and would go on ringing until the want was supplied. Rosamond stood
still and said in a low voice, “It’s my aunt. I must go. I won’t be any
longer than I can help.” And upon that was gone. The infernal buzzing
stopped. He heard a harshly-pitched voice, and a murmuring low one which
presently ceased, while the other voice went on. He thought Rosamond
Maxwell was being scolded, and that either from habit or discretion she
took her scoldings in silence. He found himself disliking the owner of
the scolding voice.

He walked away from it, and had almost reached the end of the passage,
when the door which faced him was jerked open and a girl in a green
dress looked out at him. She had one hand on the door, and with the
other she leaned across and clutched the frame. A long faded shawl in a
mixture of colours now practically extinct hung from her shoulders and
trailed upon the floor. Above it there were features which would have
been pretty had they been less pinched, eyes of a startling blue, and a
shining auriole of hair. The face was a child’s, but the eyes were
harder than a child’s eyes should be. He had never seen anything like
the hair in his life. It was the colour of bright bronze. It stood away
from her head in springing waves and curled into delicate tendrils about
the temples and ears.

He said, “Miss Jenny Maxwell?” and she took her hand from the door to
catch at her shawl and said,

“Yes, of course. But who are you?”

There was neither shyness nor discomposure. He said,

“Your sister was bringing me to see you.”

“Where is she?”

“A bell rang. She went into a room about half way along the passage.”

Jenny nodded.

“Aunt Lydia’s bell. It rings all the time, and she can’t be kept waiting
a minute. She is Miss Crewe, and this is her house. I suppose you know
that.” She took a halting step backwards. “If you were coming to see me
you had better come in.”

Everything in the room was shabby. Curtains frayed at the edges. A
carpet with a disappearing pattern. Old sagging chairs. A Victorian sofa
darned where the upholstery showed, but for the most part hidden by the
rug which Jenny had thrown back and by a litter of books and papers. She
sat down, pulled the rug over her, and pointed.

“You had better have that chair. The springs want mending, but I don’t
suppose you’ll go through.”

“I hope not.”

The brilliant eyes watched him with interest. They were not soft and
deep like Rosamond’s. They had the brightness and glitter of sea water
under the sun. After surveying him at her leisure she said,

“I suppose you are a doctor. I have seen so many of them. At first they
thought I was going to die. They didn’t say so, but of course I knew.
Now they say I’m a Remarkable Case. It’s a bore being an invalid, but
you meet some very interesting people, and it’s nice to be a Remarkable
Case.”

“I shouldn’t think it would make up for not being able to run about. But
you are going to be able to do that too, aren’t you?”

She pursed up her mouth.

“I expect so. You haven’t told me your name. Are you one of the famous
ones? The last man who came to see me was. He came over from Paris on
purpose, and I can’t remember his name, because I think it was Russian.
It sounded like a sneeze, and the Russian ones do, don’t they?”

“I’m afraid I’m not a doctor at all.”

“Oh? Then why did you want to see me?”

“Well, I was passing—”

“How did you know there was anything to pass, or anyone to come and see?
Did you know my father and mother? If it was my father, Aunt Lydia
wouldn’t be at all pleased. She has always been angry because my mother
was a girl, and because my father wouldn’t change his name when he
married her. If he had, we should have been Crewes and carried on the
family, and now there’s no one. It makes her wild to think of Maxwells
living in Crewe House, so perhaps she’ll just leave it to the nation,
and Rosamond and I won’t have anywhere to go—like Vera Vavasour and her
child in _Passionate Hearts_. Have you read _Passionate Hearts_? It’s by
Gloria Gilmore.”

“I don’t think I have.”

“Oh, you would know if you had. It’s marvellous! I cried so much over
the seventeenth chapter that Rosamond took it away. But she had to give
it back again, because I wouldn’t stop crying until she did!”

He controlled his face.

“Why do women always like something that makes them cry?”

He had nearly said _girls_, but perceived that it would have been a
mistake. Jenny was preening herself. His last minute substitute couldn’t
have gone down better. As she continued to discourse upon her favourite
books, he was conscious of disappointment. _The Heart’s Awakening_,
_Lady Marcia’s Secret_, _A Sister’s Sacrifice_—If these were Rosamond’s
choice—He said,

“That’s the sort of thing you like?”

She was flushed and eager.

“Oh, yes! Haven’t you read any of them?”

He shook his head.

“They’re not very much in my line.”

“What a pity! They’re lovely! But it’s so funny, Rosamond doesn’t care
for them. She wants me to read dreadfully stuffy things, and why should
I if I don’t like them? When I’ve got a Gloria Gilmore I just don’t care
about anything in the world—not about my back or anything. Then there’s
Mavis la Rue. She’s marvellous, but Rosamond has got a regular down on
her, I can’t think why. She makes you feel as if even dreadful things
could be beautiful, if you know what I mean. Rosamond didn’t. And she
took _Passion for Two_ away from me even after I’d told her that. I
didn’t think she would be so unkind, but she was. And I believe she had
a row with Nicholas about letting me have it, because the books haven’t
been nearly so exciting ever since.”

So Rosamond was not responsible for Gloria Gilmore. He experienced a
ridiculous sense of relief. As he enquired, “Who is Nicholas?” Jenny
made a casual gesture.

“Cunningham,” she said briefly. “He works at that place the other side
of the village, Dalling Grange. Experiments for aeroplanes, you know—or
perhaps you don’t, because it’s all frightfully secret. Aunt Lydia says
they’ll blow us all up some day, but I expect she’s thinking about atom
bombs. Anyhow I asked Nicholas, and he only laughed and said his lips
were sealed.”

“He is a friend of yours?”

She sat up straight and pulled in her chin.

“I used to think he was, but now I’m not so sure—because of his giving
in to Rosamond like that. He’s in love with her, you know. At least I
suppose he is, because he looks at her that way, and it’s all right in a
book. Gloria Gilmore and Mavis la Rue make it sound lovely, but when
it’s someone you thought was your friend, and then you find out he is
nothing but a trampled worm, it just looks sloppy.”

So Nicholas was sloppy about Rosamond. Craig was finding Miss Jenny
Maxwell quite informative. The theme fascinated him. He pursued it.

“There’s a general consensus of opinion that people in love are apt to
look silly—except to each other.”

“Rosamond isn’t in love,” said Jenny with the extremity of scorn. “She
wouldn’t have time, for one thing. It’s Nicholas who is in love with
her. I don’t suppose she even notices it. Aunt Lydia adores him, so he
comes in and out a lot. The aunt he lives with is one of her oldest
friends. They both adore Nicholas. The Cunninghams are just next door.
Much too close for another house really, but it used to belong to the
Crewes—a dower house for the old ladies of the family, with a way
through to the garden so that they could come in and out and the family
could drop in and visit them. People didn’t seem to get bored with their
relations as much as they do now, and everyone thought it was a very
nice arrangement. But when the money began to go wrong Aunt Lydia’s
father sold the Dower House, and of course Aunt Lydia minded dreadfully.
She would mind if she had to sell a pebble off the drive, so you can
imagine what she felt like when it was a whole house absolutely bang
next door where she could see strangers going in and out. So it was just
as well that she made friends with Miss Cunningham, wasn’t it? There was
a brother too, and she fell in love with him—like Romeo and Juliet, you
know. And then something happened. I don’t know what it was, because
people won’t tell you. That’s one of the really horrid things about
being young, and it’s no good their saying it’s the best time of your
life, because it’s very—very—” She cast about her for a word and came
out with “_frustrating!_”

Craig laughed.

“Cheer up—it will pass! ‘Youth’s a stuff will not endure’.”

She made a child’s face at him.

“That’s what people always say about the things they don’t have to put
up with themselves! What was I saying? Oh, about Henry Cunningham.
Nobody knows what happened—at least if they do they won’t tell. But he
went away for more than twenty years, and Aunt Lydia never got over it.
It’s frightfully difficult to think of anybody as old as Aunt Lydia ever
having been in love, isn’t it? And very depressing too, because there’s
a picture of her in the drawing-room quite nice-looking, and she’s
pretty frightful now.”

It was at this rather embarrassing moment that Rosamond Maxwell opened
the door. Her quiet manner held, but it had been shaken. She was even
paler than she had been. He guessed at the effort which steadied her
voice as she said,

“My aunt would very much like to see you, Mr. Lester.”

Jenny made an abrupt movement.

“What on earth for! He’s come to see me, hasn’t he!”

“I’ll bring him back, Jenny. You can go on with your talk afterwards. I
think Aunt Lydia would like to see him now.”

Jenny’s spoilt-child expression warned him that he had better get out of
the room as quickly as possible. Her protests followed him as she shut
the door.

A little way along the passage he stopped.

“She seems to think I’m a doctor.”

Rosamond said, “Oh—” And, “You haven’t talked to her then?”

“Oh, yes, we’ve talked.”

He wondered what she would say if she knew how frank that talk had been.

“But not about her writing—”

“Mostly about how much she admires the great works of Miss Gloria
Gilmore.”

Rosamond threw up a hand.

“What can I do! She does love them so, and they are really quite
harmless. It is Nicholas Cunningham who brings them. His aunt has
shelves and shelves of them, but I’ve told him not to bring any more of
the la Rue woman’s stuff. _Broken Vows_ and _Passion for Two_! Jenny was
so cross when I took them away, but they were really nasty. I don’t
think the others will do her any harm.”

He made a wry face.

“Children like sugar.”

Her smile came and went. It was a little tremulous.

“Don’t say that to Jenny.” Then, on an urgent note, “We mustn’t stand
here talking. Aunt Lydia doesn’t like to be kept waiting.”

She took him along to the door which she had opened before, went a
little way in, stood aside for him to pass her, and said,

“Mr. Lester, Aunt Lydia.”

He was never to forget his first impression of Miss Crewe’s room. At a
glance two things emerged—it was grey, and it was crowded. He was to
discover later on that the original colour of the hangings, the striped
wall-paper and the faintly patterned carpet had been a delicate shade of
blue. Under this light and lapse of years they were now as grey as dust.
And so was Miss Lydia herself.

She sat in an upright chair, a hand on either of its massive arms, and
dominated the scene—tall, stiff, with thick iron-grey hair taken back
relentlessly from a high, narrow brow and bony features. He found
himself wondering what she could have looked like when she was young.
The bones were all good. With bloom and colour there might even have
been beauty there. The thin, stiff figure might have had its curves—it
had none now. The right hand lifted and was extended to him. Stones
flashed in half a dozen rings—diamond, emerald, ruby, sapphire. The
fingers that wore them were as cold to the touch as bone. She said,

“How do you do, Mr. Lester? I understand that you have come down to see
my niece. Pray sit down.”

It was definitely alarming. No, that was wrong, the word should have
been _indefinitely_. He wasn’t a boy, to be intimidated by an old woman
who had outlived her world and retreated into a solitude of her own
making. Absurd to have any feeling except compassion. For her—or for
Rosamond Maxwell? His former anger rose in him as he took the chair to
which she had pointed and said,

“I happened to be passing. But I must apologise for troubling you at
this hour. I must confess I lost my way, and then when I was so near—”

There was an overhead chandelier bright with faceted lustres. The
electricity so sparely used in the rest of the house blazed from it upon
a room full of old and undoubtedly valuable furniture, upon the
bookcases and cabinets which lined the walls, upon every description of
chair and every kind of small occasional table, upon the china which
filled the cabinets, the innumerable small objects which littered the
tables, and upon Miss Lydia herself in a grey velvet wrap lifting the
hand with the sparkling rings and saying,

“You came to see my niece. I am told that you are in a publishing firm.
I believe she amuses herself with scribbling, but you will not ask me to
believe that you take that sort of thing seriously.”

Her tone affected him in a singularly unpleasant manner. It carried so
final a dismissal of Jenny’s childish ambitions. They might have no
value in themselves, and yet mean all the world to a crippled child.

“She had no business to trouble you,” said Lydia Crewe.

He achieved a smile.

“Well, that is what we are there for. I didn’t know how young she was.
Of course there could be no question of publishing any of her work at
present, but I thought I should like to see her, and perhaps give her a
little advice. She obviously loves writing, and since she isn’t very
strong, it is probably a great pleasure to her. It is much too soon to
say whether there is any real talent.”

“And so you came down here to say that. Very obliging of you, I am sure.
Can we offer you some refreshment?”

She was the great lady condescending. It pricked him. He said, “No thank
you,” and got to his feet.

“You must be getting on your way? Perhaps we can direct you. Where are
you making for?”

He had been aware of Rosamond in the grey room behind him. She came
forward now, threading her way between the tables. Resistance sprang up
in him. He was being dismissed, and he was in no mind to take his
dismissal. He said with a kind of pleasant firmness,

“Thank you very much. Perhaps you will tell me how to get to the
village. I suppose there is one, and that it has an inn of some kind. I
can’t have much farther to go, and there’s no real hurry. I don’t feel
like wandering in any more lanes tonight. Then, if I may, I could
perhaps see Jenny again tomorrow. If she really wants to write she ought
to start on a regular course of reading.”

Lydia Crewe lifted her puckered lids and gave him a long cold look. Her
eyes were deeply set, and deeply shadowed by the arch of the brow. He
thought they must once have been fine. She said with abrupt irrelevance,

“Are you related to the Lesters of Midholm?”

“Why, yes.”

She nodded.

“You have a look of them. They were all big men. There is some slight
family connection. My great-grandfather married Henrietta Lester in
1785. She died young.” Her tone dismissed Henrietta as a failure.

He was surprised, therefore, when she said quite graciously,

“Very kind of you, I’m sure, to take so much trouble about Jenny. She
will naturally be delighted to see you. Rosamond will show you the way
out and direct you to the inn. It is quite small of course, but Mrs.
Stubbs is a very good cook. She used to be with the Falchions at
Winterbourne. Good-bye, Mr. Lester.”

He touched the cold hand again and made his farewells. He found himself
outside in the passage with relief.

“Do I see Jenny again now?”

Rosamond shook her head.

“Better not, I think. If she is too excited she won’t sleep. Can you
really come back in the morning?”

“Oh yes. What time shall I make it? Ten—half past?”

As they went back towards the hall, she gave a sudden soft laugh.

“Are you really related to those Lesters?”

“I really am.”

“And do you know exactly how? Because Aunt Lydia will certainly
cross-examine you. She knows everybody’s family tree much better than
they do themselves.”

He laughed.

“I’m word perfect. My grandfather was a brother of old Sir Roger
Lester’s. The present man is my cousin Christopher.”

She had opened the front door and was saying, “If you turn left at the
foot of the drive, the village is not much more than a quarter of a
mile. The name is Hazel Green, and the inn is the Holly Tree. Mrs.
Stubbs is a pet,” when he broke in after the manner of someone who has
not been listening.

“Do you dust all that damned china?”

When she thought about it afterwards it occurred to her that she ought
to have snubbed him. Rosamond wasn’t very good at snubbing people. She
said in an apologetic voice,

“The daily women aren’t careful enough. Aunt Lydia wouldn’t trust them.”

There was quite a cold air coming in, but neither of them felt it. He
said with anger,

“Do you know what I would like to do? I’d like to put all that stuff in
the middle of the floor and smash it with the poker!”

And all she did was to look at him and say, “Why?”

He obliged with a copious answer.

“Because you’re a slave to it. There isn’t a speck of dust on the
wretched stuff, or anywhere else that I could see. And who does the
dusting? You every time! And mind you, I know about dusting. My sister
and I had to help at home. My father died, and the first thing my mother
did was to get rid of practically all that sort of stuff. She said there
wouldn’t be anyone to do anything except ourselves, and she wasn’t
planning for us to be slaves to a lot of irrelevant crockery, so she
made a clean sweep of it. This house is cluttered till you can’t move,
and you’re worn to a shadow trying to cope with it.”

It was the most extraordinary conversation, and perhaps the most
extraordinary part of it was that she found it quite impossible to be
angry. Strangers oughtn’t to speak to you like that. He didn’t feel like
a stranger. He broke all the rules and he broke down all the fences, but
it wasn’t for himself, it was for her. He was angry because she was
tired—because there was too much china and too much furniture and her
work was never done. It was so long since anyone had cared whether she
was tired or not that she was shaken, but not with anger. She felt a
weakness and a warmth, and got no nearer to an answer than a faint
tremulous smile.

He said, “Why do you do it?” and she lifted her head and spoke gently.

“Most women have a good deal to do in their houses nowadays, you know.
It doesn’t hurt one to be tired at the end of a day’s work.”

“It hurts to be given a hopeless task and keep at it till it breaks you!
Three quarters of that stuff should be put away! Why don’t you say so
and go on strike until it’s done?”

The smile was gone. She straightened herself a little.

“Please, please—you mustn’t. My aunt has been most kind in taking Jenny
in, and it has meant everything for her. We really had no claim.
Anything I can do in return—”

“I know, I know—and it’s not my business, and all the rest of the
conventionalities! Let’s take them as said and get down to brass tacks.
It is really impossible for you to have a sensible talk with Miss Crewe?
After all, she can probably remember how many women it used to take to
do what she expects you to take on single-handed.”

“It was a different world, a different life. She hasn’t the least idea
how long anything takes to do. There was a cook, and a kitchenmaid, and
a between maid, and a woman up from the village three times a week to
scrub, and a butler, and a parlourmaid, and two housemaids. And
everything went like clockwork.”

“She tells you all that, and she can’t see?”

“No, she really can’t. She just thinks they were lazy and overpaid, and
that there is no entertaining now, so of course it is all quite easy.”

A light shiver went over her.

He said impulsively, “You’re cold—I mustn’t keep you. But I haven’t
said anything like all I’m going to.”

A big warm hand swallowed hers up, held it a moment, and then let go. He
went out on to the porch, and down the steps, and into his car and drove
away.




                               CHAPTER 4


Mrs. Stubbs’ cooking was all that Miss Crewe had said. The parlour at
the Holly Tree was warm and bright and comfortable—old leather chairs
well broken in, a red tablecloth to replace the white one when his meal
had been cleared away, and a row of fascinating objects on the shelf
over the fireplace. Craig sat gazing at them and considering how much he
preferred this homely warmth and comfort to the dreary bygone grandeurs
of Crewe House. Sèvres and ormolu were all very well in their time and
place, but for everyday fireside comfort give him the yellow cow with a
lid in her back which was really a cream-jug, the milk being put in at
the lid and pouring out of the mouth; the cup and saucer of copper
lustre with its bands of raised fruits and flowers on a ground of bright
sky blue; the mug with Queen Victoria and Prince Albert in lilac and
grey, the Great Exhibition in the background, and the date 1851
displayed in silver. There were also some rather intriguing wooden
candlesticks with what looked like little heaps of cannon-balls piled at
the four corners of the base, and a tall pottery jar with a picture of a
khaki-clad soldier of the South African War and the dates 1899-1901.
Below on either side of the hearth there were two very large pink shells
which took him back to his boyhood, when he used to stand in front of a
dreadful little muddle-shop which he passed on his way to school,
looking in and coveting just such another pair.

Mrs. Stubbs came in, hoped he had everything to his liking, and stayed
for a cosy little chat. The shells were brought back by a great-uncle
who had taken to the sea. The cow and the lustre cup and saucer had come
down from her great-grandmother. “And I don’t hold with all this
throwing out and putting in a lot of silly rubbish. New it may be, and
the fashion it may be, but I don’t hold with it. When the young people
come in they can do as they choose, and I suppose when I’m in my grave I
shan’t mind, not even about my granny’s yellow cow that she used to
allow me to stroke Sundays for a very particular treat. Oh, well, every
dog has his day, as the saying is, and no use troubling oneself that I
can see. Makes your blood go sour, and then what are you like to live
with! Better laugh as long as you can and hold your tongue when you
can’t!”

He went up to Crewe House in the morning, and Rosamond let him in. He
found Jenny bright-eyed, flushed, and very grown-up indeed.

“How do you do, Mr. Lester? You must have thought it very silly of me
yesterday to mistake you for a doctor, because of course you are not in
the least like one. Rosamond has told me about your coming down from
Pethertons, and she says I mustn’t expect you to publish anything. But
then I never did—not really. Only you will talk to me about it, won’t
you, and not just say it’s no use and I must wait till I’m older. You
don’t know what a curse it is being young and have everybody say you
can’t do any of the things you want to do because of it.”

He said,

“I shan’t do that, because there’s quite a lot you can do now, and I’d
like to talk to you about it very much.”

Her hands were at her breast, painfully clasped. The brilliant eyes
answered. Rosamond, leaning over to lay a hand on her shoulder, was
vehemently pushed away.

“Well,” he said, “writing is a trade. If you want to write you’ll have
to learn it. Take any conversation. There are the words, there is also
the way the people look and move, and the tone of voice they use, and
when you come to write that conversation down all you have got is the
words. And they are not enough. Somehow, by hook or by crook, you have
got to make up for the colour, the life, and the sound which you can’t
transfer to paper.”

“How?”

“That’s what you’ll have to find out. For one thing, written dialogue
has got to be better than the ordinary stuff that people talk. It must
have more life and go in it. The colours must all be brightened. There
must be more individuality. The clever people must be cleverer and the
silly ones sillier than they would be in real life, or you won’t get
them across at all, and your book will be dull. Then you want to watch
your reading rather carefully. Don’t read too much of any one author, or
you will find you are copying him, and that is fatal. You’ll have to
read the standard authors, because they lay down a good foundation and
you won’t be able to do without it. And as you read, just notice how
they get people in and out of rooms, or from one place to another—how
they produce what is called atmosphere—that sort of thing. They all do
it different ways, so you won’t be in danger of copying any one in
particular.”

Jenny nodded vigorously.

“And then—you probably won’t like this, but it’s important—write of
things you know something about.”

Jenny’s already feverish colour deepened.

“If everyone did that, there would be a lot of dull books! I don’t want
to write about the things that happen every day—I’m bored with them!
What can I write about _here_!”

Dangerous ground. He hastened away from it.

“Well, you live in a village, and a village has people in it just the
same as a town has, or a South Sea island, or a castle in Spain. It’s
the people and what goes on in their lives that makes things
interesting—or dull.”

For the first time her hands relaxed. The flush began to fade. She said
slowly,

“Sometimes you can’t think what was in their minds. Nobody could with
Maggie.”

“Who is Maggie?”

“A person in the village. She just walked out of the house one evening
and never came back.”

Rosamond threw him an uneasy glance. He ignored it.

“Why did she do that?”

“Nobody knows why.”

He said, “Tell me about it in your own way—as if it was a story you
were writing.”

“I don’t know how to begin.”

He laughed.

“That is always one of the difficult things.”

She thought for a bit, and then shook her head vehemently.

“I can’t do it like that. I can tell you what happened.”

“All right—go ahead.”

She nodded.

“You mustn’t think about it being a story—it’s just something that
happened. But it’s not interesting, or romantic, or anything like
that—it’s just a bit frightening. Maggie lived with her father and
mother in a cottage in the village. You can see it from the bottom of
our drive, only they don’t live there now. The father and mother were
quite old, and Maggie wasn’t at all young, or nice-looking or anything
like that. And about a year ago, at eight o’clock in the evening when it
was quite dark, she finished her ironing and said to her mother, ‘I’m
just going out for a breath of air. I won’t be long.’ And no one ever
saw her again.”

“You mean she disappeared just like that?”

Jenny nodded.

“I told you it was rather frightening. And if I was writing it for a
story I should stop there, because the end rather spoils it.”

“What was the end?”

“Oh, she wrote—twice. On a postcard to her mother, and to Miss
Cunningham. She was the daily at the Cunninghams’, and their card just
said, ‘Away temporary’. But the one to her mother was longer—something
about being obliged to go away and coming back as soon as she could.
That’s what she wrote, only she never did, and they never heard any
more. The postmark on the card was London. And in the end they went to
the police, but they couldn’t find her. Nobody knows what made her do
it, because she had always been such a good daughter. And when she
didn’t send any money or anything, the poor old Bells had dreadfully
little.”

“You say they don’t live here any more?”

“Oh, no. They’re dead. Maggie oughtn’t to have gone away and left them.”

Over Jenny’s head Rosamond gave him one of those looks. All right, he
was a blundering fool, and Jenny oughtn’t to be encouraged to dwell upon
village tragedies. Let her stick to her Gloria Gilmores and life as it
never was. Only if you were going in for fairy tales, he preferred
Beauty and the Beast, Cinderella, and the Twelve Dancing Princesses,
with the warp in folklore and the weft in fantasy. He gave back
Rosamond’s look with as much hardihood as he could muster and said,

“Yes, that’s the sort of thing I mean. Only it needn’t always be
tragedy, you know. Queer things happen in villages, just as they do
everywhere—and nice things and interesting ones.” He even steeled
himself to add, “Gloom is the hallmark of extreme youth.”

Jenny flushed. He felt that he had been a brute, but Rosamond’s eyes
were thanking him.

She left him with Jenny after that, and presently brought in a tray with
cups of tea and some of Mrs. Bolder’s biscuits which melted in the
mouth. She found the party going with a bang and Jenny chattering away
nineteen to the dozen, after which she ate a great many biscuits and
drank what was practically a cupful of milk.

“And if any of us was slimming, we shouldn’t be able to, should we? So
what a good thing it is that we’re not, because Mrs. Bolder does make
the most heavenly biscuits. I expect it will be years, and years, and
years before Rosamond and I have to think about that sort of thing. She
runs about too much, and I can’t run about enough. And anyhow it must be
perfectly ghastly to think about everything you eat and feel perhaps you
oughtn’t to. Miss Cunningham is like that, you know. She doesn’t eat
this and she doesn’t eat that, and she gets fearfully hungry. And then
quite suddenly she can’t bear it any more, and everything she’s taken
off comes on again, so what’s the good? Anyhow she’s quite old, so I
don’t see why she worries. Nicholas teases her about it, and she goes
all pink and says, ‘Oh, my dear boy!’ ”

Rosamond walked down the passage with him when he had said goodbye. He
wondered whether he was to be summoned to Miss Crewe’s presence again,
but they passed her door in silence. As they came out upon a wide
corridor which led directly to the hall, she said in a hesitating voice,

“Would you care to see the house?”

He made no attempt to soften the tone of his reply.

“No, I wouldn’t.”

Her lips quivered into a smile.

“People do come and see it. There are some good pictures.”

“No, thank you.”

“Two Leys and a Vandyck, and a pet of a Gainsborough—Miss Louisa Crewe,
three years old, in a white muslin dress and a blue sash, with a puppy.”

“Then in heaven’s name, why doesn’t she sell them and give you a human
life?”

The smile went out like a blown candle flame.

“Aunt Lydia will never sell anything,” she said. “And you—you mustn’t
say things like that.”

“Then you had better not ask me to bow down to the idol which is
destroying you all. I suppose it started as a perfectly good house put
up to serve the needs of real live flesh-and-blood people. The sort of
life they lived is over. The kind of houses they lived in just aren’t
wanted any more. They’ve either got to be put to new uses, or they’d be
better pulled down. You know as well as I do that this house is nothing
but a mausoleum, and that it’s draining the life out of you. If you’re
going to ask what that has to do with me, I’ll tell you.”

“But I’m not asking you.”

“I’ll tell you all the same. First of all, it’s everyone’s duty to
prevent an attempt at suicide.” He grinned suddenly. “That’s not what
you expected, is it? I’m on nice firm uncontroversial ground there. I
see you about to leap from Waterloo Bridge, and I put out a restraining
hand!”

“I think you are quite mad.”

“No—only metaphorical. But cheer up—it gets easier as it goes on. In
the second place, you keep doing something to me. You make me angry, and
you make me tired. If I’m not in a rage with Miss Crewe for making a
slave of you, I’m in a rage with you for letting yourself be made a
slave of. ‘A Sister’s Sacrifice’, that’s what you are—a living
embodiment of one of those Gloria Gilmores that Jenny wallows in. Do you
know, I haven’t been so angry half a dozen times in the last half dozen
years! I wouldn’t have believed it of myself, but there it is, and I
expect you know what it means just as well as I do. And now perhaps we
had better change the subject.”

She had been watching him in a way that came across to him as aloof. Not
exactly the Blessed Damozel looking forth over the gold bars of heaven,
but perhaps the medieval damsel watching a furious lance being broken
for her sake. There was a suggestion that men _would_ play these rough
games, and that there wasn’t anything you could do about it. What she
said was a plain inexpressive “Yes.” And then, “I would like to talk to
you about Jenny.”

She took him into the hall and across it into the small pale room where
they had talked last night. They sat in the same chairs, and talked
about what Jenny should read, and what she should be encouraged to
write.

It was Rosamond who spoke about Maggie Bell.

“I don’t know what made Jenny bring that up. It’s a frightening story.”

“I don’t suppose she found it so. There has been time for her to get
used to it.”

“I hoped she had never heard very much about it.”

“In a village? What a hope! Besides children always know everything.”

“Nobody has even known what happened to Maggie. It really is
frightening, you know. She was such a good daughter. She would never
have gone away and left her father and mother like that if she hadn’t
been obliged to.”

She was echoing Jenny’s words. He guessed that they were not so much
Jenny’s as everyone’s. They were what had been said so often that as
soon as there was talk of Maggie Bell the words were there, all ready to
be used again.

He said,

“I suppose it was the usual thing—some man, and she couldn’t face the
talk.”

“But there wasn’t any man. She must have been forty, and she had never
been about with anyone.”

“Axiomatic,” he said. “Girls who disappear or who get themselves
murdered have never had any men friends—all their friends and relations
say so. But that’s an old story. Let us now give our minds to Jenny.”




                               CHAPTER 5


Chief Inspector Lamb sat back in his office chair and allowed his
frowning gaze to rest for so long upon Detective Inspector Frank Abbott
that that promising young officer began to wonder which of the crimes
regarded by his Chief with particular disfavour he had committed this
time. Whichever it was, the appropriate homily would undoubtedly be
forthcoming. Since he knew them all by heart, from Thinking oneself
Better than one’s Superiors, Entertaining a quite False Impression that
one’s Opinion had been Sought or was Desired, through a long list to,
last and not by any means least, the Using of Foreign Words where Plain
English ought to be Enough for Anyone, he awaited the breaking of the
storm with resignation, and was surprised that it should be still
delayed.

Lamb glowered. His big face was florid. The heavy thatch of black hair,
irrepressibly determined to curl on the temples, showed only the
slightest tendency to become thinner at the crown. His prominent brown
eyes were fixed in an unwavering stare upon Frank’s tall elegance. The
cut of his clothes, the harmony of socks, tie, and handkerchief, the
shining perfection of the shoes, might individually or collectively
provide the theme of a discourse. But it was not until a respectful
“Yes, sir?” had been interjected that the Chief Inspector broke this
menacing silence. On a deep growling note he produced these unexpected
words,

“Didn’t you send me a picture-postcard from a place called Melbury
sometime or other?”

Reflecting that it was rather long after the event for this to be
brought up as a breach of discipline, and that to the best of his
recollection the card itself had merely carried a photograph of the new
Melbury housing estate, Frank replied,

“It would have been about this time last year. I had a weekend, and ran
down to see a cousin.”

Lamb nodded, still frowning.

“Don’t know why you sent me the card.”

“People you mentioned—friends of one of your daughters who were moving
to Melbury—I thought they might be interested in the housing estate.”

Lamb grunted. He and Mrs. Lamb had had a trying time last year with
their daughter Violet. Why she couldn’t take a decent young fellow and
marry him and have done with it, he didn’t know. This time it had been
one of those long-haired cranks who want to do away with the Army, the
Navy, the Air Force, and the Police, and then everything would be quite
convenient for everybody. The fellow had some sort of job at Melbury,
and Violet had actually got to the point of saying she wanted to marry
him. But thank goodness it was all over now, and she was going out with
the son of one of their chapel members, a very steady young man, and
with good prospects in his father’s business, which was wholesale
groceries. Not desiring to enter upon these details, he cleared his
throat and said in a dogmatic manner,

“Quite so, quite so. Melbury—exactly—about this time last year.”

“Yes, sir?”

Lamb leaned forward and picked up a pencil. He wrote the word Melbury
upon a piece of paper, and then said in a slow and meditative manner,

“You were staying with cousins. What about staying with them again?”

One of Frank’s pale eyebrows rose.

“Oh, I don’t know them all that well,” he said. “They asked me down, and
I went.” There was a faint gleam of humour in his eyes. “I have rather a
lot of cousins.”

Lamb said heartily,

“A good thing family feeling. Pity there isn’t more of it these days.
Plenty of people don’t know who their own great-grandfather was.”

Inspector Abbott smoothed back the very fair hair which was already
beyond criticism.

“My great-grandfather had twenty-seven children,” he remarked
negligently. “One or two of his brothers and nephews also helped to keep
up the average, which is why I can find a cousin in most places if I’m
put to it. Sometimes it’s convenient.”

Lamb began to tear up the paper upon which he had written the word
Melbury.

“Well, I was thinking of that,” he said. “And I was wondering how it
would be if you were to look up these Melbury cousins of yours again.”
He dropped the torn-up bits into a large wastepaper basket.

It was borne in upon a young man with an irreverent turn of humour that
his respected Chief was giving an exhibition of tact. He was reminded of
Dr. Johnson’s reply when invited by Boswell to give his opinion on the
subject of a woman’s preaching. “Sir, it is like a dog walking on his
hinder legs. It is not done well; but you are surprised to find it done
at all.” He said in a respectful manner,

“Very good of you, sir, but I hardly think—”

The Chief Inspector made the sound which may be written “Tchah!” and
came into the open.

“As a matter of fact I wouldn’t mind having someone down in the
neighbourhood without making an official matter of it. The whole thing
may be a mare’s nest, or it may not, and whether it is or whether it
isn’t is not properly our pigeon. But I had better begin at the
beginning.”

Frank Abbott murmured that it might be as well. He continued to prop the
mantelpiece.

Lamb pulled some notes out of a drawer, slapped them down on the desk in
front of him, and looked up to ask a question.

“These cousins of yours—do they live right in Melbury?”

“I’m afraid not, sir. Did you want them to? They’re a mile or two out,
on the Hazel Green side.”

Lamb nodded.

“You know Hazel Green?”

“I’ve passed through it. I was only down there for a weekend.”

“Well, not so long after you were there a woman called Maggie Bell
disappeared from the village. She went out one night for a breath of air
and never came back again. About a week later there were two cards with
a London postmark.... Yes—let me see—Paddington. One was to her
employer and said, ‘Away temporary. M.B.’ And the other to her parents,
‘Coming back as soon as I can. Florrie will come in. Don’t worry.
Maggie.’ The employer is a Miss Cunningham. Maggie worked there daily.
The other members of the household are an elderly invalidish brother,
Henry Cunningham, and a young chap, Nicholas Cunningham, who is a
nephew. Now about half a mile out of Hazel Green and off the main road
you have Dalling Grange which was taken over by the Air Ministry during
the war and has been retained by them for experimental purposes.
Nicholas Cunningham works there. The experiments are top secret, and the
Security chaps get jumpy if anything happens within a hundred miles of
the place. They got jumpy over Maggie Bell. She was forty years old and
no looker. No one had ever seen her with a man. I know that’s what the
friends and relations always say, but in this case it really seems to
have been true. After those two postcards there has never been anything
more, and she has never been traced.”

“What about the postcards—were they genuine?”

“I don’t know. The parents didn’t question them, nor did Miss
Cunningham. Maggie was always at home, and the only specimen of her
handwriting available was the signature on her identity card. The
handwriting people wouldn’t commit themselves one way or the other. The
fact is, she wrote a horrid scrawl, and the pen used on the identity
card must have been just about through.”

“And where do we come in?”

“We don’t, properly speaking. We’re being dragged in—the Paddington
postmarks—and if you ask me, a lot of fuss about nothing. To my mind
the woman must have met with some accident. She had old parents, she was
a good daughter, and she was the breadwinner. She wouldn’t have gone off
and left the father and mother to fend for themselves. The question is,
what took her to London and kept her there for a week? If the postcards
are genuine, it wants explaining. And if they are not, then everybody
would like to know who wrote them, and why.”

Frank Abbott said,

“A bit late in the day, isn’t it, sir? What exactly is the point of my
going down to Melbury now?”

Lamb frowned heavily.

“The fact is, there’s been a leakage of information. We’re being asked
to co-operate. We shouldn’t send anyone down there officially, but it
was agreed that it might not be a bad plan if you were to take a spot of
leave and pay a private visit to the neighbourhood. There seems to be an
idea that it mightn’t be a bad plan to sift over the local gossip.” He
cleared his throat and added, “On the social side, as it were.”

Frank Abbott straightened himself. A respectful and attentive expression
gave way to an irrepressible gleam of humour as he murmured,

“What you really want is Miss Silver.”

The Chief Inspector’s colour deepened, his brows drew together. But
there was no explosion. Instead, with merely the hint of a growl in his
voice, he observed that it mightn’t be a bad thing. “One of those cases
where I don’t say she wouldn’t be useful. The fact is, people like
talking, but they don’t like talking to the police. That’s where Miss
Silver comes in. The only thing that stops people talking is being
afraid. Well, no one’s afraid of Miss Silver. She’s a good mixer—makes
people feel she likes them—sits there with her knitting and makes
herself pleasant. And mind you, it isn’t put on either. It wouldn’t go
down like it does if it was. She likes people and she takes an interest
in them, and they fairly tumble over themselves to tell her things.
Whereas if it was you or one of the locals coming in with a notebook,
you’d have them stiffening up and putting everything away under lock and
key. There’s a lot goes on in a village that doesn’t get talked
about—not to outsiders. It gets known all right, and it gets whispered
from one to another, but it doesn’t get as far as the police, and if
they come in and ask questions there isn’t anybody knows a thing. I grew
up in a village and I know. They’ve changed a lot since I was a
boy—motor buses, and cinemas, and the wireless, and the young people
going away to the towns—but they haven’t changed all that underneath.
You go and have a talk with Miss Silver and see if she hasn’t got some
old crony she could run down and visit in the Melbury direction. Mind,
it’s got to look accidental, or it won’t be any good. The fact is,
everyone wants this job finished off good and quick. If there’s anything
going on down there, they want to know what it is. And if there isn’t
anything going on, they want to be sure that there isn’t before people
get up asking questions in the House.”




                               CHAPTER 6


Miss Silver was dispensing coffee in the flowered set which had been the
Christmas present of a grateful client. The cups had a blue and gold
border and little gay bunches of flowers, the saucers a similar border
and an occasional scattered bloom. Frank Abbott, having duly admired
them, enjoyed his coffee and awaited the moment to do this errand. Not
in the house of any one of his numerous relations did he feel more at
home than in Miss Maud Silver’s flat, with its rather bright
peacock-blue curtains, its carpet in the same shade adorned by floral
wreaths, its workmanlike desk, and the Victorian chairs with their
frames of bright carved walnut and the upholstery which matched the
curtains. The pictures looking down upon the scene were all old
friends—reproductions of _The Soul’s Awakening_, _The Stag at Bay_,
_Hope_, and _The Black Brunswicker_. Miss Silver herself, with her
neatly netted fringe, her beaded shoes, the large gold locket which
exhibited her parents’ initials in high relief and contained locks of
their hair, might have stepped out of any family album before the
twentieth century wars had shattered a Victorian and Edwardian world. In
appearance, in manner, and tradition she was miraculously a survival.
Even her dress, though lacking the sweeping folds of those earlier days,
contrived to produce its own effect of being permanently out of date.
The little net vest with its high boned collar suggested the nineties,
and the stamp of the small dressmaker—“Ladies’ own materials made
up”—provided every garment she wore with a family likeness to all those
other garments fashioned laboriously in villages and back streets before
the days when a gentlewoman could purchase or wear a ready-made dress.

Frank Abbott found amidst these surroundings a sense of security which
he could not put into words. It was with reluctance that he set down his
coffee-cup and returned to the world of crime.

“You do not happen to know anyone in Melbury, I suppose? Or do you?”

Miss Silver put her own cup down upon the coffee-tray before she
replied. She had at times a way of contemplating a new subject with the
kind of bright attention with which a bird may be seen to regard a
problematical worm. This was one of those times. Frank received the very
decided impression that Melbury was a worm, and that she was so
regarding it. She repeated the name on a slight note of enquiry.

“Melbury?”

He nodded.

“Do you know anyone there?”

“Not precisely in Melbury. But why do you ask?”

“The Chief would be glad if you did.”

“My dear Frank!”

“He wants someone to feel the social pulse, not so much in Melbury
itself as in the neighbouring village of Hazel Green.”

Miss Silver said, “Dear me!”

This being her strongest expression of astonishment or concern, he was
not surprised when she followed it with,

“This is really quite a coincidence.”

“Then you do know someone there?”

“I have an old schoolfellow in Hazel Green.”

“My dear Miss Silver!”

She lifted a flowered knitting-bag from the lower tier of the small
table which supported the coffee-tray and, opening it, took out a pair
of needles from which there depended a narrow strip of ribbing in an
extremely pleasing shade. Little Josephine, her niece Ethel Burkett’s
youngest child, was now approaching her sixth birthday. A twin set in
this delightful cherry colour would be very becoming. It used to be the
fashion to dress a fair child in nothing but blue, but in this matter
she applauded the modern trend. As she pulled on the cherry-coloured
ball and began to knit she amplified her previous remark.

“I had really quite lost sight of Marian. It is not always possible to
keep up with one’s schoolfellows, and during my early days in the
scholastic profession, I was very fully occupied, but as recently as
last year I came across her again at the house of another old school
friend, Cecilia Voycey. She had invited her to stay, and thought it
would be pleasant to have a little reunion. Melling is not very far from
Melbury, and I really was extremely pleased to see Marian again, though
rather sadly changed. She married into an old county family. They owned
what was quite a show place but successive death duties crippled the
property, and during the war it was taken over by the government.”

Frank Abbott cocked an eyebrow and said,

“Not Dalling Grange?”

“That, I believe, is the name. The Merridews had been there for a long
time, and it seems a pity. Marian is now a childless widow, and I think
it is a relief to her to have a small manageable house and fewer
responsibilities.”

“Could you go and stay with her?”

“She has invited me to do so.”

“Then listen.”

As he unfolded the tale of Maggie Bell, with its possible ramifications
into the experiments now being carried on at Dalling Grange and the Air
Ministry’s perturbation on the score of possible leakages of
information, Miss Silver continued to knit. When he had finished she
said gravely,

“There seems to be very little to go upon.”

Frank threw out a hand.

“Practically nothing. They appear to think there has been some leakage,
but I don’t believe they are sure. It’s not unknown for two people to
hit on the same idea in different countries and at about the same time,
and if there is, or has been, a leakage, what is there to connect it
with the disappearance of Maggie Bell? I don’t quite see what we are
expected to do about it anyhow. The disappearance took place a year ago.
We haven’t been told very much about the leakage, but I gather it is a
good deal more recent. The fact remains that there is a pretty
considerable flap going on, and it wouldn’t do any particular harm if
you were to pay this visit to your friend Mrs. Merridew.”

She knitted in silence for some moments, and then began to ask
questions.

“Maggie worked for this Miss Cunningham?”

“For four hours every morning—eight to twelve.”

“And the nephew, Nicholas Cunningham, is employed on research work at
Dalling Grange?”

“Exactly.”

“And the other inmate of the house, Mr. Henry Cunningham—what does he
do?”

“He is engaged upon a book dealing with the local moths and
butterflies.”

“Has he ever published anything?”

“Not that I know of. One of these dawdling dilettante kind of chaps, I
should think, with enough of a hobby to give him an excuse for being
idle.”

“He has been living there with his sister for how long?”

“For the last three years. The Security people have been over his whole
dossier, and it all sounds harmless enough. A bit of a rolling stone,
but nothing against him. During the war he was in a Japanese prison
camp, and his family had given him up for dead. Then one day he walked
in, and has been there ever since. Naturally he has been suspect number
one, but none of the ends tie up. On the face of it he is just an
elderly drifter, not in very good health and glad to come home and slip
back into his place in the family. Well, what am I to say to the Chief?
I’m being sent down myself to stay with a cousin. He’s got a job as
architect on the new Melbury housing estate. Are you going to come down
and hold my hand?”

Miss Silver knitted to the end of her row. Then she said,

“I will write to Marian Merridew tonight.”




                               CHAPTER 7


After twenty four hours of the Holly Tree, Craig Lester made up his mind
to go no farther. The ostensible reason for his journey into these parts
being a dutiful visit to a nono-genarian great-uncle, he felt that Uncle
Rudd could be duly and daily-inspected just as well from Hazel Green as
from any hotel in Melbury. For a good many years now it had not been
practicable to stay in the house, where everything went like clockwork
and an elderly housekeeper and an elderly nurse united in a benevolent
despotism. Uncle Rudd was beautifully looked after, and his visits were
a matter of form, yet he paid them with regularity, and would do so to
the end. They had not always been convenient, but at the moment they
provided an admirable reason for his remaining in the neighbourhood.

On the third day of his visit he encountered Henry Cunningham in the
bar, a tall stooping figure with a beard and an untidy head of greying
hair. Remembering Jenny’s story of a romantic attachment in the Romeo
and Juliet manner, he reflected that no one could possibly have looked
less like Romeo. But then, in spite of all his other misfortunes, that
young gentleman had been spared the detractions of middle age. Looked at
dispassionately, it was possible to conceive that Henry might have had
his points before he let his shoulders sag, grew a beard, and stopped
incurring the expense of a hair-cut. The current growth had every
appearance of being botched at home with the nail-scissors. He strolled
over with his own glass and made a few observations on the weather. They
were received in a limp but perfectly amiable fashion, and some
desultory conversation followed, in the course of which names were
exchanged.

“I have to come down to these parts every now and then to see an old
uncle of mine, and this time I thought I would stay here instead of in
Melbury.”

In a quite detached manner Henry Cunningham echoed the words.

“An uncle—”

Craig Lester said, “Retired doctor. Used to have quite a practice in
these parts—Dr. Rudd Lester. He’s in his nineties now, but quite spry.”

Henry Cunningham said, “Ah, yes—Dr. Lester—” He might or might not
have said any more. From his general habit of letting a subject drop it
could have been deduced that he had no more to say, but at this moment a
man who had just come in crossed over and hailed him.

“Well, well, well—always merry and bright! A pint of mild and bitter,
Mr. Stubbs, if you please. How’s bugs, Mr. Cunningham?”

The hearty voice, the rubicund appearance, were in the strongest
contrast to Henry Cunningham’s lack of vigour. He lost no time in naming
himself to Craig.

“Newcomer here, aren’t you?... Oh, staying for a day or two? Well,
nobody could make you more comfortable than Mrs. Stubbs—I’ll guarantee
that. My name’s Selby—Fred Selby at your service. Hit on this cosy
little village when I was looking for somewhere to retire to, and I’ve
never regretted it. Nicest place you could find anywhere, and the nicest
people. Used to be in business in London, and everyone said I’d find it
too dull in the country—never stick it.” He laughed heartily, took a
pull at his beer, and went on. “Well, I don’t say I don’t take a run up
to town now and again, because I do. But as to going back to there to
live—no, thank you, sir! Not if you were to offer me a fortune! Why, I
used to have nerves, and where are they now? Suffered from insomnia—I
give you my word I did. And now—well as often as not I don’t so much as
turn over before the alarm goes off in my ear.”

“Early to bed and early to rise?”

“That’s the ticket! I’ve got a few dozen hens—just for a hobby, you
know—and it makes all the difference if they get their hot mash in the
morning. I tell you, three years ago I didn’t think I’d be getting up at
half past six to cook breakfast for a lot of hens! I tell my wife she
ought to take a hand, but she says she’s got enough to do without, and I
suppose she has, though we’ve a girl comes in mornings and gives her a
hand, which is more than she had in town.” He went on talking.

Presently Henry Cunningham drifted away.

Next morning in his uncle’s bright, hot room Craig brought up the name.

“I met a chap called Cunningham last night. Henry Cunningham—Hazel
Green. Do you remember the family?”

Old Dr. Lester was a good deal like a monkey. The neat black skull-cap
which he wore added somehow to the resemblance, so did the red flannel
dressing-gown. An organ-grinder’s monkey, looking about him sharply to
see what was coming along, only instead of the brown eyes being sad they
were still capable of a lively spark of mischief. At the moment they
were a little vague. He said,

“Cunningham?” And then, “Sister called Lucy?”

“I believe so.”

The eyes brightened.

“Yes—yes—oh, dear me, yes! Henry Cunningham—lord, what a hoo-ha there
was!”

“What about, sir?”

“Hazel Green you said. Come across any of the Crewes?”

“I’ve met Miss Lydia Crewe.”

“Then you’ve met the whole lot of ’em rolled into one. Know what I used
to call her? Only to myself, you know—a doctor can’t afford to be witty
about his patients. ‘Pride and Prejudice’, and it hit her off to a T!”
He chuckled to himself and went on. “Lydia Crewe—and Crewe House—and
no money. And her father sold the Dower House to the Cunninghams. She
put herself in such a state I had him in bed for a month with a hospital
nurse to keep her out of his room. Well, he had to have the money. And
after all the fuss, she made friends with the Cunninghams and fell in
love with Henry. Silly affair—very silly, and a good thing it didn’t
come to anything, because she’d have swallowed him whole. Dominant
personality, quite ruthless, and ten years older than he was—he’d have
been swallowed. So it was all just as well, but there was a lot of talk
at the time.” He gave a half chuckle and rubbed his hands together,
lacing and interlacing the fingers.

When Craig said, “What kind of talk?” he said in a falling voice,

“God bless my soul—I don’t know—it’s all too long ago.... What were we
talking about?”

“Henry Cunningham and Lydia Crewe.”

Dr. Lester brightened.

“Made a lot of talk—a lot of talk. But there wasn’t any proof. Mrs.
Maberly was a very careless woman—couldn’t go into a shop without
leaving a bag or an umbrella—she probably left the ring somewhere when
she went to wash her hands, and forgot all about it. I don’t suppose she
had it on at all the day she said she missed it, and of course nothing
was proved. But there was a great deal of talk—a great deal of
talk—and when Henry went off like that, of course everyone believed the
worst. Did you say he was back again now?”

“Yes, sir, he’s back.”

Dr. Lester nodded.

“Well, well, it’s a long time ago—quite a long time ago.”




                               CHAPTER 8


That same afternoon, coming out of the Holly Tree, Craig Lester observed
a tall figure making a leisurely approach from the direction of Crewe
House. No one had ever told him that Miss Crewe was a secluded invalid,
but he had somehow received that impression. His visit to her room had
not been repeated, though upon one pretext and another he had managed to
see Rosamond and Jenny every day, but the picture of her sitting there
in her velvet wrap with the blazing chandelier throwing its unsparing
light upon all those crowding relics of the past had remained with him,
and he had thought of her as fixed in that place and unable to leave it.
Jenny had said things about Aunt Lydia’s bell ringing all the time and
Rosamond having to run because she didn’t like to be kept waiting. He
had heard the bell himself time and again and seen Rosamond start up and
hurry away, yet here was Miss Crewe in the flesh coming towards him and
walking without so much as a stick. Seen on her feet, she was even
taller than he had supposed—and more formidable. She carried herself as
if her spine were a steel rod with no joints in it. Her eyes under a
rather battered black felt hat stared at first blankly and then with
haughty recognition. She wore dark grey tweeds with a skirt nearly down
to her ankles and a shabby black fur coat. No one could have taken her
for anything except what she was—autocrat and aristocrat to the tips of
her rubbed kid gloves. She gave Craig the slightest of bows and passed
on, her destination being the white house set back from the street on
the opposite side from the Holly Tree and some twenty yards farther on.
It had a small garden in front of it gay with crocuses, and a pair of
yews cut into an archway over the gate and continued in a low hedge on
either side of it.

After three days in Hazel Green Craig was aware that Mrs. Merridew, the
late owner of Dalling Grange, resided there. “A very nice lady,” as Mrs.
Stubbs informed him. “And a deal more comfortable at the White Cottage
than she’d be at the Grange, which wants a regular staff to run it, and
cold and draughty past belief. I worked there as kitchenmaid when I
first went out—all stone passages and great big rooms that hadn’t been
used for years, enough to break your heart. But she’s very comfortable
here with Florrie going in to do for her every day.”

In the true spirit of village gossip Craig enquired, “And who is
Florrie?” and received quite a flood of information about Florrie Hunt
herself, her parents, now both deceased, and her other relations, of
whom there appeared to be several in the neighbourhood.

“Mr. Hunt, he was second gardener at Dalling Grange. No ambition, that
was what was wrong with him. All he wanted was to go on growing the
vegetables same as he’d always done, and Florrie’s a chip off the same
block. She’s a real good cook, and she could do a lot better for herself
than going in daily like she does to Mrs. Merridew. But there, it takes
all sorts to make a world, and the Hunts are all the same. Poor Maggie
Bell now—her mother was a Hunt, and she was just such another. And then
in the end off she goes and never a word out of her, which is a thing
you couldn’t credit, not when you knew her. And if you ask me, she must
have met with an accident or something, and nothing to tell anyone who
she was.”

There was a lot more about Maggie Bell, and how the police had come into
it but nothing found out. And then back to Mrs. Merridew again, and how
nice for her to have an old schoolfellow to stay.

With this in the back of his mind, Craig Lester watched Miss Crewe go
by. He had arrived at a rear view of her uncomfortably straight back,
when Henry Cunningham emerged from the narrow lane between the White
Cottage and the Vicarage wall. It was obvious that he and Miss Crewe
would meet. Craig found himself a little curious as to their present
relationship. So far no talk on this point had come his way. It was not
so much that there had been any avoidance of the subject as that Mrs.
Stubbs, his main source of information, had been much too busy telling
him all about Dalling Grange and how it was to be hoped that they
wouldn’t all be blown up in their beds some night, and the haunted house
at Hazel Lea where, according to local repute, a clock struck twelve at
the half hour past midnight every Michaelmas Eve and you could hear the
splash of something falling into the well that was filled in fifty years
ago. Mrs. Stubbs had a stirring repertory of ghost stories, and as one
put her in mind of another, she had not so far got round to the
Cunninghams and the Crewes. It might be that discretion as well as
charity began at home. Whatever the cause of her silence, he felt enough
curiosity to make him stand where he was and watch to see how these two
people met.

He saw what everyone in the village had seen during the last three
years—what anyone in the village might see on any day of the week. He
saw Henry Cunningham put up a nervous hand to his hat, and he saw Miss
Lydia Crewe look him full in the face and cut him dead. Craig Lester
could not see that bleak stare, since he had only a sideways view, but
he could imagine it well enough. There was a slight glacial pause. Henry
Cunningham’s hand dropped to his side, and Miss Lydia Crewe turned in
between the arching yews and walked up the flagged path to the White
Cottage.




                               CHAPTER 9


Mrs. Merridew turned from the window with a sound of dismay.

“Oh dear!” she said. “She has done it again! I can’t think how she
can—so dreadfully awkward!” Then, as she encountered Miss Silver’s
enquiring glance and heard Miss Crewe’s deep voice at the front door,
she added hastily, “I will tell you afterwards, my dear,” and assumed
the posture of one who has just risen from her chair to receive a guest.

The door was opened by Florrie, who herself remained unseen. Lydia Crewe
came into the room. She had discarded her coat and appeared immensely
tall and thin in the straight dark tweeds. There was a double string of
pearls about her neck, and a valuable diamond brooch on the lapel. She
did not exactly smile, but her face relaxed to a quite noticeable extent
as she greeted her hostess and acknowledged the introduction which Mrs.
Merridew at once proceeded to make.

“My old schoolfellow, Miss Silver. We only met again the other day
after—well, we won’t say how many years. So pleasant, so very pleasant,
to meet an old friend again, isn’t it?”

There was a slight pause before Miss Crewe said, “Not always.” It was
borne in on Mrs. Merridew that a fatal propensity for saying the wrong
thing had once more asserted itself. She hoped that Miss Crewe would not
think she had meant in any way to refer to Henry Cunningham, and began
in a hurry to speak about something else, only to realize that she had
embarked upon a topic which she certainly would not have chosen.

“No, no—it all depends, doesn’t it? Especially when it is a case of
relations. Poor Muriel now—” She turned in explanation to Miss Silver.
“Lady Muriel Street—an old friend and near neighbour. Mr. Street owns
that big place Hoys just outside the village. I’m sure I sympathize very
much with her. I met her yesterday, and she was telling me that she had
relations of Mr. Street’s to stay, and they seemed to find the country
so dull. They have been accustomed to go abroad in the winter, and now
that they can no longer afford it they find the English spring so very
trying—the cold winds, and so much rain. And then, of course, they are
not gardeners, which provides one with a constant interest, and they do
not care for walking. And with petrol the price it is! Muriel is afraid
they have been finding their stay very monotonous, and as she says, she
would really rather not have had the house so full at the moment.”

Miss Silver remarked that entertaining was now by no means easy, to
which Miss Crewe replied with the one word, “Impossible.” After which
she directed her cold glance upon Mrs. Merridew.

“Since there are twenty bedrooms at Hoys, I can hardly believe that the
house has been full.”

Mrs. Merridew was a large fair lady. In her youth she had had an
apple-blossom prettiness. She still had the blue eyes and the rather
appealing manner which had made up the youthful picture, but now
everything was on a much more ample scale. The once fair hair was an
untidy pepper and salt. It strayed in wisps about the neck of a faded
mauve jumper and continually shed the hairpins with which she made a
harassed attempt to control it. Over the jumper she wore an old black
cardigan, now much too tight. At the moment she was quite flushed, since
the agonized thought had presented itself that dear Maud whose
companionship she was enjoying so much might think that any of the
foregoing remarks, hastily thrown up as a smokescreen, could possibly
refer to her delightful visit. She took up the teapot and began to pour
with rather an unsteady hand as she said,

“Yes, yes—all those rooms, and hardly any staff—so difficult. I cannot
say how thankful I am to have this dear little house, and my good
Florrie to look after it so beautifully and to make it so easy for me to
see my friends.”

She turned her large, kind smile upon Miss Silver, who returned it in a
way that quite allayed her fears. The flush faded, and she was able,
while putting in the milk, proffering sugar, and handing the green
Rockingham cups, to pursue the theme of how thankful she had been to
hand over Dalling Grange and retire to the modest comfort of the White
Cottage. It was only when Miss Crewe accepted one of Florrie’s scones in
an affronted manner that she realized that the diversion was not a happy
one, since everyone knew that whatever happened to the country, to
herself, or to her nieces, Lydia always had been and always would be
determined to hold on to Crewe House. The flush mounted, and once more
she said what she had not intended to say.

“Poor Muriel—I really did feel sorry for her—such a disappointment.
But I expect she has told you all about it.”

Lydia Crewe held out her cup.

“I have no doubt she would have done if I had happened to see her. She
never could keep anything to herself, and I don’t suppose she ever will.
You have quite drowned me with milk—I only like a few drops ... Yes,
tea right up to the brim—I have a perfectly steady hand. Well, what is
Muriel disappointed about now?”

“Her brooch,” said Mrs. Merridew—“the one with the large diamonds which
was left her by the godmother who died a year or two ago. Quite
handsome, you know, but rather heavy. You remember, she showed it to us.
And it wasn’t the sort of thing you could wear very much, but she said
she always looked upon it as a nest egg. Not being one of the family
things and coming to her like that, she said she wouldn’t mind selling
it if she ever wanted the money. Well, the other day she took it up to
town to have it valued, and, do you know, the stones are not diamonds at
all—they are only paste.”

Miss Silver said, “Dear me!”

No one took any notice. She therefore continued to sip her tea from the
cup with the apple-green border and to listen to the conversation of the
other two ladies.

Miss Crewe, it appeared, had no sympathy for the disappointed Lady
Muriel.

“People should not sell their family jewels. I consider it a breach of
trust.”

“But this was not—”

Lydia Crewe broke in with impatience.

“Of course it was! Muriel’s godmother was Harriet Hornby, no more than a
second cousin twice removed. She had no business to try and sell the
brooch. If she had not done so, nobody would ever have known that it was
paste.” She gave a short grim laugh. “If the truth were told, I fancy a
good many people’s family jewels would turn out to be paste nowadays.
They can’t afford to insure them, and they can’t afford the death
duties. And as long as nobody knows, they can pocket the value and keep
up appearances just as well on a sham. But as a rule they have enough
sense to hold their tongues. Muriel Street can’t even do that—she
didn’t get called the Babbling Brook for nothing when she was a girl.
And you needn’t sit there wondering if you ought to have told me,
Marian, for I daresay half the county knows by now.” She took another
scone and continued with a wintry smile. “Felicia Melbury had better
sense. I don’t suppose any of us ever guessed that her necklace with the
big square rubies was just a copy, but that’s all it turned out to be. I
must say it amuses me to look back and remember the nerve with which she
used to display it and tell us that her grandmother wore it at Queen
Victoria’s coronation. And no one would have known anything about it to
this day if Freddy Melbury hadn’t gone round confiding in all and sundry
and saying he couldn’t imagine what she had done with the money.”

Mrs. Merridew, who was doing her best to turn the conversation in some
direction which would include Miss Silver, found herself unable to stem
the steady flow of Miss Crewe’s strictures upon the behaviour of most of
their mutual friends. She seemed to know everyone in the county, and to
have very little that was good to say about any of them. Mrs. Merridew
need not really have troubled herself, since her old schoolfellow was
able to listen with some interest, and had no disposition to feel
slighted. The tea was of the strength she preferred, Florrie’s scones
were almost equal to those of her own devoted Emma, and there was a kind
of tea biscuit just touched with a meringue mixture which was new to her
and most agreeable to the taste. Really good recipes were not easy to
come by. The fortunate owner cherished them and was not always willing
to part, but in this case dear Marian was so perfectly amiable—She
allowed herself to entertain the modest hope of being able to present
Emma with what would be a decided addition to her repertory.

Tea being over and the tray removed by Florrie, she produced a flowered
chintz bag and took out of it a pair of grey needles from which depended
about two inches of knitting in a cheerful shade of cherry red. When
presently Miss Crewe, fastening a derogatory look upon this employment,
enquired what she was making, Miss Silver proceeded to furnish her with
quite a detailed account of her niece Ethel Burkett and her family.

“She has three boys of school age, and they grow so quickly that it is
almost impossible to keep them in clothes. A good deal of my time is
necessarily taken up with their stockings and socks, so it is a pleasant
change to be able to turn to something pretty for the only girl, little
Josephine—and I suppose I shall have to stop calling her that soon, for
she will be six next birthday. I have just made her a twin set, and I
thought this bright wool would make her a really charming hood and
scarf. The spring winds are so treacherous. Do you knit, may I ask?”

Miss Crewe’s “No” did not trouble itself to be polite, and Mrs.
Merridew, colouring, interposed with the first thing that came into her
head.

“That nice-looking man who is staying at the Holly Tree, Mr. Lester—is
he an old friend of yours, Lydia?”

Miss Crewe’s eyebrows had a natural arch. Thirty years ago they had been
very effective in conjunction with a pair of fine grey eyes. The lids
were puckered now, and the eyes had sunk. They looked coldly as she
said,

“My dear Marian!”

“Oh, isn’t he?”

In her most disdainful voice Miss Crewe said,

“Is he giving out that he is? If so—”

“Oh, no—of course not! I haven’t really had any talk with him, but he
was most polite when I dropped one of my parcels yesterday getting off
the Melbury bus—such nice manners, and such a pleasant voice. And after
hearing from Mrs. Stubbs that he was a nephew of old Dr. Lester’s and
seeing him about with Rosamond—”

She had blundered on, but at this point she could no longer be unaware
that she was saying quite the wrong thing. It was not really possible
for Lydia Crewe to draw herself up—her back was already as straight as
a ramrod—but she did manage somehow to produce an effect of added
rigidity.

“What do you mean by ‘about with Rosamond’? Rather an odd expression, it
seems to me. She has had one or two business conversations with him on
Jenny’s behalf, I believe. The silly child scribbles. A lot of nonsense,
I daresay, but it has helped to keep her amused. Mr. Lester belongs to a
publishing firm, and it seems Jenny sent him some of her rubbish. I am
told it has become the fashion to publish the writings of children and
of uneducated persons. Another symptom of modern decadence!”

Mrs. Merridew beamed.

“Is Jenny really going to have something published? How exciting for
her!”

Miss Crewe had removed her gloves before partaking of Florrie’s scones.
Her impatient gesture set the colours flashing in the crowded rings.
Miss Silver reflected that it could not be good for the settings to be
worn really jostling one another in such a manner. Such fine stones
too—diamond, emerald, sapphire, ruby. And very much better kept than
was often the case with the rings which elderly ladies wore.

The impatience was not in gesture alone. It was in Miss Crewe’s voice as
she said,

“Certainly not! Even if it were proposed, I shouldn’t allow it! Mr.
Lester appears to have enough sense to agree that she is too young, but
he seems to think that there might be a prospect later on, and he has
been advising her as to what she should read. She should, of course, be
at school. Her education has been disastrously interrupted, and Rosamond
spoils her in a ridiculous manner, but the very first moment she can be
packed off I shall certainly see that it is done.”

Mrs. Merridew gave a little gasp of dismay.

“Rosamond won’t like that at all!” she said with more truth than tact.

Miss Crewe began to put on her gloves—black kid, very old and rubbed.
The flashing rings were swallowed up, the fingers stroked down over
them.

“Rosamond will do as she is told,” said Lydia Crewe.

Mrs. Merridew evaded the issue. It was sometimes exceedingly difficult
not to quarrel with Lydia, and it wasn’t any good, besides being so
awkward in a village. She pulled down the old grey and black checked
shirt which was rather too tight and had an embarrassing tendency to
ride up and said,

“Dr. Lester was always so kind, and very clever too. I was so glad to
hear that he keeps well.”

Lydia Crewe gave a short unpleasant laugh.

“I thought you said you had no conversation with the nephew.” Tone and
phrasing removed Craig to a distance quite beyond her own circle.

“Well, it was really Mrs. Stubbs—”

Miss Crewe’s eyebrows rose.

“Village gossip? My dear Marian!”

Mrs. Merridew flushed.

“I was so glad to have news of him. Mr. Lester is most attentive to his
uncle. It is not every young man who would take so much trouble. He
tells Mrs. Stubbs that Dr. Lester is really wonderful—asking after
everyone at Hazel Green and most interested.”

Miss Crewe pushed back her chair with a jerk and got up.

“I always thought him a very disagreeable and sarcastic old man,” she
said, and made her farewells.

When she had gone out under the arching yews, Mrs. Merridew told Miss
Silver all about the engagement to Henry Cunningham and the breach which
now existed.

“Nobody really does know quite what happened, but he went away in a
hurry and poor Lydia changed very much. There is no doubt that she was
very fond of him, but I have always wondered how it would have turned
out—if they hadn’t quarrelled, I mean, or whatever it was that
happened. Because he was really very young. She must have been quite ten
years older than he was, and not at all an adaptable person, if you know
what I mean.”

Miss Silver said that she knew perfectly.

Mrs. Merridew gave a reminiscent sigh.

“Well, there it was. She was quite handsome in those days, but never
what you would call attractive to men—too much inclined to lay down the
law, and always wanting her own way, and of course they don’t like that,
do they? But she and Lucy Cunningham were the greatest friends, and she
saw a lot of Henry. I don’t want to say anything unkind, but it always
seemed to me that he didn’t have much chance. He was only just down from
Cambridge and rather at a loose end—and then there was this silly
scandal—”

Miss Silver was brightly attentive.

“I don’t think you told me about that, Marian.”

Mrs. Merridew hesitated.

“No—no—I don’t suppose I did. It was a very stupid affair. The
Maberlys have left the neighbourhood, and it’s better forgotten—only of
course these things never are—not really.”

Miss Silver had added several inches to little Josephine’s hood. She
looked across the bright wool with her head very slightly on one side
and said,

“You interest me extremely.”

After being snubbed by Lydia Crewe this was balm to the feelings. Mrs.
Merridew relaxed and gave herself up to what a rather startling poet has
described as “the rapture of the tongue’s prolonged employ.”

“Well, it doesn’t matter with you, for you don’t know any of the people.
The Maberlys were immensely rich. He was a company promoter or something
like that, and they rather threw their money about. It was all a little
ostentatious, but I think they meant to be kind. She certainly did, but
you know how it is. Her clothes were much too new and too expensive, and
she wore too much jewelry. And then she lost a very valuable diamond
ring, and somehow it began to be put about that Henry Cunningham had
taken it. I can’t remember all the ins and outs, and one never does know
how that kind of rumour starts, but there it was. I didn’t believe it
myself, because—well, one doesn’t, not about people you know, and Mrs.
Maberly was the sort of woman who couldn’t even go out to tea without
leaving her bag or a scarf, and she might have taken off the ring and
left it simply anywhere. I remember they dined with us at the Grange,
and she was showing us a very handsome bracelet which her husband had
given her for Christmas. Well, after they had gone the butler found it
behind the cushion in her chair. It had slipped down where the loose
cover was tucked in, and really it might not have been found for a day
or two, because we were short-handed even then—and as Lucas said at the
time, it wouldn’t have been at all pleasant. So you see, Mrs. Maberly
might have done anything with that ring.”

“It was never found?”

“I really don’t know. The Maberlys went away. He had business interests
in the States, and they went over there for a time—I don’t think they
stayed anywhere for very long. So she might have found the ring and
never troubled to let us know—she was one of those good-natured, casual
women. And meanwhile Henry Cunningham went away and never came back.
Nobody knows whether it was the talk, or whether he just got into a
panic about marrying Lydia. His sister Lucy did nothing but cry, and
poor Lydia just turned to stone. Nobody dared ask her what had happened,
and it wasn’t any good asking Lucy, because she obviously didn’t know.
Oh, well, it’s all a long time ago.”

Miss Silver pulled on her cherry-coloured ball.

“But Mr. Cunningham came back in the end?”

Mrs. Merridew nodded.

“About three years ago. Such a surprise—and of course he was very much
changed. But Lucy was so pleased. She went about telling everyone what
an interesting life he had had, but I think he had really been one of
those rolling stones, and I don’t believe she knows a great deal about
it.”

“And Miss Crewe?”

“Oh, my dear, that is the embarrassing part of it. As far as Lydia is
concerned, he hasn’t come back at all. Of course in a village they are
bound to meet, and she just cuts him dead—stares straight at him and
walks past as if he wasn’t there. Why, only this afternoon—”

She went on talking about Lydia Crewe.




                               CHAPTER 10


Having seen Miss Crewe enter the White Cottage, Craig Lester walked
briskly up the road and turned in at the gates of Crewe House. He was
expected, for the door opened as he came up the steps. Rosamond stood
back and shut it behind him. She had a little colour in her cheeks and
her eyes were bright. There was no formal greeting. Her breath came
rather quickly as she said,

“Did you meet Aunt Lydia? She has only just gone.”

“I didn’t expect to see her walking.”

“Didn’t you?”

“I did not. The time I saw her she looked as if she had been sitting in
that chair of hers for the last fifty years or so.”

She tried for a reproving look, but it turned into an appealing one.

“Oh, yes, she walks when she wants to. She has only gone as far as Mrs.
Merridew’s today—just opposite the Holly Tree.”

“I know—I saw her go in. The wretched Cunningham came round the corner,
and she cut him dead.”

“She does,” said Rosamond in a distressed voice. “I don’t know how she
can. Everybody else minds dreadfully. She just looks right through him
and walks on.”

“A very fine dead cut. He’s been back how long—three years? He must be
getting used to it by now. By the way, what about Miss Cunningham—does
she cut her too?”

“Oh, no. They go on being friends, only Aunt Lydia won’t go to the
house, because of meeting Henry. Lucy comes here, and so does Nicholas.”

“So Jenny informed me. She said Nicholas was in love with you.”

Her colour rose faintly.

“Jenny talks too much.”

“And it’s all nonsense—I know, I know. Are you in love with him?”

“Craig!”

He laughed.

“Outrageous, isn’t it? Don’t hold it up against me. Everything in this
house is either dead or half asleep, and I’ve got an idea that I’d like
to wake things up. Don’t let’s talk about Nicholas any more. When am I
going to see you alone?”

The corners of her mouth tilted.

“Well, you are seeing me alone, aren’t you?”

He laughed derisively.

“Not by a long chalk I’m not! Ancestors to the left of us, ancestors to
the right! You have really some of the gloomiest family portraits I’ve
ever seen in my life!”

“They want cleaning.”

“They might be worse if you could really see them. By the way, isn’t
there one of Miss Crewe? I’d rather like to see it.”

“Would you? It’s in the drawing-room. We can go there if you like.”

They went. Rosamond was wondering. Perhaps he really wanted to see the
portrait. It was by Amory, and considered to be very fine. Perhaps he
wanted to spin out this time with her. Her colour brightened as she
opened the door and took him into a well-proportioned room with windows
to a terrace and all the furniture done up in dust-sheets. Craig was
instantly and disagreeably reminded of a mortuary. The air was heavy and
cold, the room full of dead things in their shrouds. There was a gilt
clock on the mantelpiece, and some china figures. Above them the
portrait of Lydia Crewe in a white satin dress. She held a black feather
fan, and she looked out across the sheeted room. Her face was
colourless, dominant. It had a kind of stiff beauty like a
conventionalized flower—one of the heavy hot-house type, camellia or
magnolia, carved in stone. There was a black velvet curtain behind her,
and a diamond star at her breast. The shadows in the painted dress were
a curious greenish grey.

Craig looked, frowning.

“How old was she when this was done?”

“I don’t know—about thirty, I suppose. Not much more, because her
father was ill after that, and there wasn’t any more money.”

“You mean, she found out that there wasn’t. It must have been a shock.”

He thought Lydia Crewe would have taken it hard. He said abruptly,

“I suppose you have to dust this damned room too.”

“A lot of the things in here have been put away.”

He dropped his hands on her shoulders.

“Do you want to stay here till you freeze to death like she did?”

She let her eyes meet his, but only for a moment. There was trouble in
them.

“There’s Jenny. I’m not trained for anything. I’ve got to think of
Jenny.”

He said, “Think about me for a change. Start now and keep right on. I’m
thirty-two and sound in wind and limb. I’m not rolling in money, but
I’ve got a decent job, and my last book did quite well.”

“Craig—” Her voice shook.

“You’d better listen to what I’ve got to say. I’ve got a temper, and I
can be a brute when it’s roused, but I don’t suppose I should beat you.
You might do a lot better, but you might do a lot worse too. I wouldn’t
actually knock you about, and I’d be good for Jenny. I’ve got a
house—an old cousin left it to me last year. It’s not at all bad. In
fact I think you’d like it. My old nurse keeps house for me. She’s a
comfortable person. I don’t want you to say anything now—I’m not such a
fool as to expect you to make up your mind before you’ve known me a
week.”

Rosamond had a quite extraordinary feeling that they had somehow got
into one of those dreams in which you just say anything that comes into
your head and it doesn’t matter. She said,

“You’ve only known me for a week too.”

His hands were warm and very strong. He laughed and said,

“That’s where you’re wrong, my sweet. I’ve known you much longer than
that. I don’t know whether Jenny did it on purpose or not, but there was
a photograph of you with the manuscripts she sent us. It was a snapshot.
You had on a white dress, and you were carrying a tray. Even in the
photograph I could see it was too heavy for you.”

“Nicholas said so too—he took the photograph. It was all nonsense
really.”

“And what was Nicholas doing that he was letting you carry trays like
that?”

His voice was too harsh for a dream. Something in her began to shake.

“Craig, let me go!”

“In a minute, when you’ve promised to think about what I’ve been
saying.”

“What am I to think about? It doesn’t seem real.”

“Oh, it’s real enough. I’m not asking you to marry me, because it’s too
soon. I’m just telling you that that is what I’m going to do as soon as
you know me better. I don’t want to rush you. Just think it out. I don’t
see that I could possibly be worse to live with than Aunt Lydia, and I
might be quite a lot better. I’d take care of you, my dear. It seems to
me you want someone who will do that. And now I’m going to make you
angry.”

Before she had any idea what he was going to do he put a hand under her
chin and kissed her. It was over before she realized that it was going
to happen. And she wasn’t angry. There was nothing to be angry about. He
had kissed her because he loved her. She felt quite sure about that, and
it made her feel safe.

He let go of her at once and walked to the door.




                               CHAPTER 11


They went down the passage towards Jenny’s room. Craig was aware of a
release from tension. Imagination played its tricks, and he thought he
would have known that Lydia Crewe was no longer behind that closed door
on the left, even if he had not seen her turn in at the White Cottage.
There was, of course, the fact that Rosamond knew the room was empty. He
became aware of how continually she was on the stretch, waiting for an
imperious bell to summon her. With Miss Crewe out of the house, she was
different—less at the mercy of a rigid code, less shut away from him.
And as far as he could judge she wasn’t angry. He had kissed her, and
she wasn’t angry.

She walked beside him in a silence which seemed natural to both of them.
There was so much between them that was unsaid because the time had not
come to say it, but both of them knew that the time would come when it
would be said. Just short of Jenny’s door the sound of voices came to
them. She was a step ahead. Without turning she said,

“Oh, I didn’t tell you, did I? Nicholas is here. I’ve wanted you to meet
him.”

Something in him was angry, and something laughed. She would, would she?
Of course it was Sunday and the fellow wouldn’t be working. What a nice
interesting tea-party they were going to have!

He followed Rosamond into the room, and saw Jenny laughing with a young
man who looked like a film star. The comparison was there in his mind,
and then he wondered why. Nicholas Cunningham was good-looking, but so
are a lot of other people who are not film stars. His fair hair had a
wave in it, but to do him justice, it looked as if he had tried to brush
it out. It wasn’t his fault that his eyes were almost as blue as
Jenny’s. For the rest, he had a slight active figure, a ready smile, a
pleasant voice, and an air of being very much at home. Upon which of
these counts was he to be indicted? Craig didn’t know, but the
indictment was there. It seemed that any peg would do to hang it on.

It was Jenny who performed the introduction.

“Craig—Nicholas. Now you know each other, and we can have a party. The
cakes are all here. And you’re not going down for the tray, Rosamond,
because Miss Holiday is still here, and she said she would bring it up
as soon as we rang.”

Rosamond said, “Oh, but she never does.”

Jenny forgot to be grown-up. She giggled.

“She’s making a simply dreadful favour of it. And she wouldn’t if she
wasn’t dying to have a good look at Craig. She has always just missed
him, and she had pretty well got to the point where she was going to
demean herself and answer the front door bell, only Rosamond always beat
her to it.”

“Jenny!”

“Well, you did. And when I suggested she might bring up the tea she made
a favour of it like I told you, but she was really as pleased as Punch.”

Craig said, “Who is Miss Holiday, and why does she want to look at me?”

It appeared that of the two girls who came in by the day only Ivy really
answered to that description. The other was Miss Holiday, a person of
uncertain age and some pretentions. She was also unfortunately a good
deal less competent than the bouncing Ivy, who was not yet seventeen.
With all her rough and ready ways and the scrambling hurry with which
she plunged china into boiling water and whisked it out again, Ivy
according to Mrs. Bolder didn’t break above half what Miss Holiday did.
“And how she does it, Miss Rosamond, I couldn’t say. Not that she
hurries herself, for she’s the slowest ever I watched. She just doesn’t
seem to have any grip in her fingers. So if you did feel you could take
on the china for Miss Crewe’s trays there’d be more of it left, if you
see what I mean.”

Jenny mimicked all this with a will. She looked down her nose and said,
“Another of the Minton plates!” in Aunt Lydia’s harshest voice, and had
got to Miss Holiday explaining limply that of course a thing like
washing-up wasn’t what she had been accustomed to, when there was a bump
against the door and Nicholas sprang to open it. Miss Holiday stood
there with a small tray upon which were five odd cups, a brown
earthenware milk-jug, and a large flowered teapot with a broken spout.
She was a thin person with a poke, and she appeared to sustain the tray
with difficulty. It tilted, and Nicholas took it from her and set it
down in front of Rosamond.

Miss Holiday had a good sideways stare at Craig Lester. She thought he
was a fine-looking gentleman. She liked a big man herself, and he would
make two of Nicholas Cunningham. Not but what the girls thought a lot of
Mr. Nicholas. Enough to make anyone ashamed the way they ran after him.
And all very well for him to come here smiling at Miss Rosamond the way
he did, but she had seen him with her own eyes no later than last
Wednesday night at the Odeon in Melbury with that flashy girl from the
tobacconist’s in Cross Street. Painted up to the nines and the best part
of her salary on her back, if it wasn’t the best part of _his_. And her
head on his shoulder half the time—at least it was there when she came
in and there when she went out, and nothing to say but what it had been
there all the time. She did not sniff out loud, because she prided
herself upon her manners, but she sniffed inwardly and mentally as
Nicholas took the tray from her and set it down.

She took another look at Mr. Lester. Since he was a man, he wouldn’t be
what you could really approve of, but for the moment she preferred him
to Nicholas Cunningham. Of course it went without saying that there
would be something wrong somewhere. Her own sense of superiority was
largely maintained by the contemplation of other people’s faults.

She was so much interested in her own thoughts that it simply did not
occur to her to retreat. She stood where she was, just inside the door,
in the limp faded overall which rather failed to cover a green stuff
dress, a row of bright blue beads about her stringy neck, her mouth a
little open and her light eyes goggling at Craig. She was imagining him
in a Western galloping down on one of those horses they had in the films
and snatching you up just before the Indians got you, when Rosamond’s
voice broke in upon the pleasant dream.

“Thank you very much, Miss Holiday.”

She went away with regret, and forgot to shut the door.

When Nicholas had rectified the omission he said in an exasperated
voice,

“That woman is barmy. She’ll burn you all in your beds one of these
days.”

Jenny laughed pertly.

“She isn’t here when we’re in our beds—at least I might be in mine. And
I don’t know about Aunt Lydia, but Rosamond wouldn’t be in hers. She
doesn’t get a chance, poor lamb. The girls—” she went off into a fresh
peal—“fancy calling Miss Holiday a girl! Anyhow they go off at eight
sharp, and Ivy doesn’t come on Sundays at all, but Miss Holiday rather
likes to because of getting lunch and tea.” She mimicked again, and had
the dragging voice to the life. “As long as it is quite understood that
there is no _obligation_, Miss Maxwell.”

Craig handed her a cup of tea. Rosamond said, “Jenny darling!” But
Nicholas laughed and put a plateful of Mrs. Bolder’s sugar buns down on
her lap.

“Eat, my child, and give your elders a chance to talk,” he said, and had
the satisfaction of seeing the angry colour run up to the roots of her
hair.

Miss Holiday did not immediately return to the housekeeper’s room. Mrs.
Bolder would not make the tea until she returned, and since she was in a
pleased frame of mind, it occurred to her to make up Miss Crewe’s fire
before she went downstairs. She would not have admitted that there was
some curiosity mixed up with the goodwill, but it is a fact that she had
never yet been alone in the room. She had, in fact, hardly ever been
into it at all. It was Miss Maxwell who hoovered the carpet and dusted
all those innumerable ornaments. If there was one thing more than
another for which Miss Holiday was thankful, it was that she didn’t have
to handle that china and Miss Crewe watching her all the time like a cat
with a mouse. She wasn’t often sorry for other people—she’d had her own
troubles, hadn’t she?—but there were times when she could find it in
her heart to be sorry for Rosamond Maxwell.

She came into the room, leaving the door ajar behind her. It was still
daylight, but the corners were full of shadows. She switched on the
light in the chandelier and almost cried out at the sudden brightness.
It made her blink and look over her shoulder. Suppose anyone was to come
in! Well, she had to have a light, hadn’t she, if she was going to see
to the fire? She went over to it and knelt down. It didn’t really need
anything doing to it, but she wasn’t to know that. There was a silly
little set of fireplace tools hanging on a stand to the right of the
hearth. Just one more thing to clean. Nobody had them nowadays—only
Miss Crewe. If there was anything in the world that made work, it was
brass. And look what it did to your hands!

One of the things on the stand was an ornamental brush. You could tell
it wasn’t meant to be used. Miss Holiday gave her head a toss. Whether
it was, or whether it wasn’t, she was going to use it, and no one was
going to stop her. She whisked away a cinder and flicked at some
imaginary dust. This gave her a feeling of superiority. Her nervousness
at being alone in Miss Crewe’s room had gone as she hung the brush up in
its place and got to her feet. Now that she was here, she wasn’t in any
hurry to go. She walked all round the room, looking at the china and
being glad all over again that she didn’t have to dust it. She thought
most of it very ugly, but there was a plate with birds on it that took
her fancy. She was partial to birds. There was a row of them in a
cabinet which she wouldn’t have minded having if they had been going
cheap in a sale. She’d have gone up to a pound if they had gone for
that. There were six of them, in pairs like ornaments ought to be—two
green, two yellow, and two with brown feathers and rosy breasts. She
made the circuit of the room and went over to straighten the cushions in
Miss Crewe’s chair.

She didn’t think she had ever got such a start in her life as when she
heard the footsteps. Her hand went to her overall pocket and her mouth
dropped open on a suppressed scream. And after all it was only Mrs.
Bolder come to see why in the world she hadn’t come down to her tea. Not
that she would have wanted to put Mrs. Bolder about like that, because
she wouldn’t, but who’d have thought of her coming through into the
front? Once a day to see Miss Crewe about the orders, but that was the
beginning and the end of it. To say that Mrs. Bolder was put about was
to draw it very mild indeed. She was a little woman with a high colour
and a lot of grey hair, and everyone in Hazel Green knew about her
temper. She stood in the doorway and looked at Miss Holiday as if she
could do her a mischief.

“And what are you doing here?” she said. “Oh, you come in to see to the
fire, did you? And Miss Crewe only gone out a half an hour! Coal burns
quick enough, we all know that, but it don’t burn as quick as that would
come to. And you’ve no business in this room, as well you know, or you
wouldn’t have jumped like you did when I come in. And I’ll thank you,
Miss Holiday, to mind your own business and to let me get on with mine
which was making the tea, and the kettle boiling over this quarter of an
hour, and me wondering whether you’d been took with a stroke or fallen
down somewhere in a fit.”

Miss Holiday was moved to feeble protest.

“Fits _nor_ strokes is not what we’ve ever had, not in our family,” she
said.

Her hands had gone into her overall pockets, but she could feel them
trembling there. She went past Mrs. Bolder, standing to see her out of
the room, and heard the clap of the door as she followed her. She had
been looking forward to her tea, because there was always a nice cake
Sundays, but she wasn’t going to be able to enjoy it, not if she had to
eat it with temper sauce. She went meekly down the passage, and across
the hall, and through the baize door with Mrs. Bolder’s tongue driving
her.




                               CHAPTER 12


It was about half an hour later that Miss Lucy Cunningham joined the
tea-party in Jenny’s room, coming in by the side door without troubling
anyone to answer it, as she had done for the last thirty years. Since
she never left the house without preparing for rain, she wore a man’s
waterproof over her winter coat and carried a stout umbrella.

“Well, here I am,” she said, “and better late than never, but I do like
to give Henry his tea. And then I thought I would just drop in and have
a word with Mrs. Stubbs about the broody hen she has promised me. My
crossed birds won’t sit. But I won’t have that light Sussex she lent me
last year—a most contrary bird, and I lost half the chicks. I thought
I’d just make sure I didn’t get her again, so I went down to the Holly
Tree and came along by the road. How do you do, Mr. Lester? You are at
the Holly Tree, are you not? I think my brother met you there. I hope
Mrs. Stubbs makes you comfortable—but I needn’t ask, she always does.”
She dropped the hand which she had been shaking and addressed the room
in general. “Now don’t let me go away without my umbrella. Perhaps I had
better keep it by me. But you can take my waterproof, Nicholas. And yes,
perhaps the coat too. It’s really quite dreadfully hot in here. Much
better for Jenny to have the windows open. There isn’t any tonic like
fresh air. How are you, Rosamond? You look peaky. You should take
yoghourt three times a day—there’s nothing like it. And no trouble at
all—you just set the milk and let it turn sour.... Yes, you can take
this scarf—I shan’t want it in here.”

Divested of successive layers of clothing, she appeared a good deal less
bulky, though still more than comfortably plump. Yoghourt or no
yoghourt, she made an excellent tea, and continued to talk in a rapid
discursive manner whilst partaking of buttered scone, fruit cake, and
Mrs. Bolder’s own particular tea-biscuits, which were the subject of a
keen rivalry with Florrie Hunt. Lucy Cunningham had been trying to get
the recipe for thirty years, and if she tried for another thirty she
would still be wasting her time. Mrs. Bolder was one that kept herself
to herself, and the recipe for her biscuits would go to no one but her
own flesh and blood, and not to them whilst there was breath in her
body. For the moment Miss Cunningham left well alone. She continued to
press the claims of sour milk upon Rosamond and Jenny, together with
black treacle and a horrible mixture of milk and brewer’s yeast.

Nicholas burst out laughing.

“I should have thought dieting would begin at home. You don’t take any
of these things yourself, and thank heaven you know better than to
inflict them on your family.”

Miss Lucy’s round blue eyes had quite a hurt expression.

“But, my dear, I don’t need them. I daresay I might become slimmer, but
if you feel well you feel well, and what do a few pounds matter when all
is said and done?”

Jenny giggled.

“But Rosamond and I don’t want to lose any pounds. We’re always being
told we ought to put them on.”

“Oh, but you would, my dear, I’m sure. You wouldn’t be _slimming_, and
you could have cream and butter and eggs, and even suet pudding if you
wanted to.”

“I shouldn’t want to if I had black treacle and that sour milk stuff,”
said Jenny. “I shouldn’t want anything for hours and hours and hours. I
expect that’s why you get slim.”

Rosamond moved across until she was between Jenny and Lucy Cunningham.
That was the worst of parties, Jenny got all worked up and began to show
off. She did not know that the look she sent to Craig Lester was one of
appeal, but as she began to talk to Lucy about hens she could hear him
asking Nicholas whether he had seen a play which had set everyone
laughing in town. He embarked on an amusing description of it for what
was obviously Jenny’s benefit, and soon had her laughing too.

The hens petered out after a little. Miss Cunningham looked at her
watch.

“I would have liked to see Lydia. I suppose she won’t be late?”

“Oh, no.”

“It is not as if she has any distance to go. Henry saw her turn in at
the White Cottage.”

“So did I,” said Craig Lester, and then felt that perhaps he had better
have held his tongue.

Miss Lucy said, “Oh, dear!” in a tone which made it plain that she knew
all about the meeting with Henry Cunningham. She made a little vexed
sound, and began to praise Mrs. Bolder’s biscuits and to sound Rosamond
as to the likelihood of her being persuaded to part with the recipe.

“I wouldn’t dare ask her—I really wouldn’t.”

“Faint heart never won fair biscuit!” said Nicholas, laughing. “You all
tremble before her, and she knows it. Rosamond is the worst of the lot.”

Rosamond laughed too, but on a rueful note.

“Well, she’s got a very daunting piece about being only a poor widow so
of course anyone can trample on her, and once she has got started on it
you simply can’t stop her and every relation she has ever lost comes
into it. It goes on for about half an hour and by the time it’s over you
feel as if it was all your fault.”

Nicholas threw her a kiss.

“My sweet, you’re a spineless worm! And she tramples accordingly!”

Lucy Cunningham shook her head.

“It doesn’t do to have rows, and she’s a very good cook.”

“Aunt Lucy’s a peace-at-any-pricer! She’d give in to anything rather
than have a row—wouldn’t you, Lu?”

“Nicholas, how often am I to tell you—”

“That you won’t have that silly, undignified nickname? Well, I don’t
know, darling—it just depends. We might go into a huddle and arrive at
a compromise—say once a day as a rule, and twice on high days and
holidays.”

She broke into an unwilling smile. Jenny said in a considering voice,

“People don’t call you silly names unless they are fond of you, and if
you managed to stop them, perhaps they wouldn’t be fond of you any more,
so I suppose it’s really better to put up with it. I’d much, much rather
be called Jennifer, only nobody will.”

“Well, I should go the whole hog and stick out for Guinevere,” said
Nicholas. “It’s the same name and much more high-sounding.”

Jenny was obviously taken with the idea.

“Yes, it is, isn’t it.”

“Of course you would have to braid your hair into two long plaits and
wear a wimple.”

Her colour flamed.

“You’re just laughing at me!”

“I wouldn’t dare.”

The angry tears were in her eyes. Her voice rose high.

“You’re doing it—you’re doing it all the time!”

Rosamond’s soft “Jenny!” and Miss Lucy’s “Nicholas, dear, don’t tease
her!” were lost in the sudden opening of the door. Craig Lester looked
across at it and saw Lydia Crewe standing there, very tall and black.
She waited for the hush that fell upon the room, and said in a most
forbidding voice,

“You were all making a great deal of noise. Especially Jenny! Were you
engaged in some game? How do you do, Lucy? How do you do, Mr. Lester.
Nicholas?” Her eyebrows rose. “Quite a party! I hope I am not
intruding.”

The two men were on their feet, Nicholas with his agreeable smile
unchanged. But it was Rosamond who spoke.

“Can I get you some tea, Aunt Lydia?”

Miss Crewe surveyed the old papier maché tray, the teapot with its
broken spout, the odd cups and saucers.

“Your tea equipage is hardly worthy of the occasion, Rosamond. Am I to
suppose that we no longer have five cups which match one another? And I
seem to remember a silver teapot. It had at least the virtue of being
unbreakable, and on that score alone I should like to commend it.
Appearances naturally do not matter any longer, but from the most
utilitarian standpoint that broken spout must waste a good deal of the
tea.”

Jenny had a bright spot of colour on either cheek. She said in a high
childish voice,

“It hadn’t anything to do with Rosamond. Miss Holiday brought up the
tray.”

Miss Crewe addressed Craig Lester in a condescending manner.

“One of our kitchen helps, and as you see, a very inefficient one. She
had, of course, no business to leave the back premises. Rosamond will
see that it does not occur again.” She was aware of Miss Cunningham
getting to her feet, a performance accompanied by some effort. “You are
not going, Lucy?”

Lucy Cunningham flushed. She did not like rows, but Lydia being
sarcastic was even worse. She said,

“Well, I think I’d better. I really didn’t come to tea—I just looked in
to have a word with you. If you can spare the time. But I had better
collect all my things first. Now let me see—what did I have? A
scarf—no, two, because you can’t tell what the wind is like until you
are out in it, can you?”

Lydia Crewe said scornfully,

“You coddle yourself, Lucy. The more clothes you wear, the more you will
feel the cold. I’ve been telling you that for years.”

Miss Cunningham arranged the two scarves carefully about her neck,
assumed her thick tweed coat, and thrust her arms into the sleeves of a
voluminous waterproof.

“I like to be warm,” she said briefly. And then, “Thank you, Mr. Lester.
Now is that all? No, no, my umbrella—I mustn’t forget my umbrella!”

As Craig handed it to her on one side, Nicholas retrieved a bulging
handbag and offered it on the other.

“There you are—all complete! At least I hope so. No other unconsidered
trifles? All right. I’ll be seeing you.”

“If you are quite ready, Lucy—” said Lydia Crewe.




                               CHAPTER 13


The hours of Sunday passed. The church bells rang. Miss Silver and Mrs.
Merridew attended the evening service. There were very few people there.
The Vicar’s wife played the organ, a memorial to the fallen in the first
world war. The Vicar raised a robust baritone in the psalms and
canticles, the District Nurse sustained a rather uncertain soprano. The
old beautiful words hung in the cold, close air. The church had been old
when the Wars of the Roses were fought. There were the tombs of two
Crusaders, one with his legs crossed at the knees to show that he had
ridden out on his pious errand twice. There were worn brasses and a
clutter of monuments. It came into Miss Silver’s mind that the dead were
better represented than the living. When they had prayed that the
darkness might be lightened, and to be defended from the perils and
dangers of the night, the Vicar went up into the pulpit and preached for
five minutes on the duty of loving one’s neighbour as oneself. He had a
vigorous, resonant voice, and he said that the world would be a much
nicer place to live in if we all took a little more trouble about being
kind. After which they sang “Sun of my Soul,” and came out into the
windy dark.

Florrie Hunt had Sunday afternoon and evening off, so the two ladies
prepared their own supper and washed up after it. Peaceful hours
slipping by with nothing to mark them, a peaceful village settling to
its Sunday rest, church bells and evensong, Sunday supper, a quiet hour
or two by the fireside, a little talk, a pleasant book, music to be
summoned with the turning of a knob, and then good-nights exchanged and
a leisurely preparation for bed.

But within a stone’s throw of the White Cottage there was a bed that was
not slept in that Sunday night.

Florrie came in with the news at eight o’clock on Monday morning. She
set a tray down on the table by Mrs. Merridew’s bed and said in her
gloomiest tones,

“Miss Holiday never come home last night, _nor_ her bed wasn’t slept
in.”

Mrs. Merridew blinked.

“Florrie, what do you mean?”

Florrie swished the curtains back, and Mrs. Merridew blinked again, at
the light this time. Very cold and grey, and not at all the sort of
thing you wanted to look at if something unpleasant had happened. That
cold light showed Florrie in a flowered overall very clean but a good
deal faded. Even though the colours were not as bright as they had been,
they did not go at all well with what was by no means a shining morning
face. Lank black hair drawn back above sallow bony features, pale thin
lips, and a set expression, were not flattered by the pinks and blues
and greens of what had once been a gay summery pattern. There were four
curtains, and it wasn’t till they had all been drawn that Florrie
repeated what she had said.

“She didn’t come home, and she didn’t sleep in her bed. Mrs. Maple is in
a terrible taking. Says she’s never known her to be out of her usual
before—and that would be nine o’clock if it wasn’t for the evenings
she’d go over to Melbury for the pictures and come back on the last bus,
and then she’d always let her know beforehand and Mrs. Maple would let
her have the key so as not to be kept about.”

There was at this juncture a slight tap upon the half open door. It was
followed by the entrance of Miss Silver in the warm bright blue
dressing-gown which had replaced the crimson one long worn and only
parted with when it had begun to show serious signs of dilapidation. The
hand-made crochet trimming with which it had been adorned had been very
successfully transferred to the new gown, and her niece Dorothy’s gift
of a pair of black felt slippers trimmed with blue pompoms completed a
most comfortable outfit. Her hair, neatly coiled, was confined by a
strong silk net. Her expression was one of concern.

“My dear Marian—has anything happened? I was on my way to the bathroom,
and I could not help hearing—”

Florrie’s usual reserve had been shaken. She repeated her story for the
third time and with some added details.

“Mrs. Maple she thought she was in—” she addressed herself to Miss
Silver—“she’s that deaf she wouldn’t hear, and it being gone half past
ten, she never thought anything but that Miss Holiday had come in and
gone up without speaking, which is what she’s done time and again, it
being a job to make Mrs. Maple hear and nothing particular to say except
goodnight. Anyway, it’s all of ten years Miss Holiday has been lodging
there, and that’s how it’s been. But come this morning when Mrs. Maple
gets up and there isn’t any sign of her she goes knocking on her door,
and when that doesn’t fetch her out she turns the handle and goes in,
and there’s the bed not slept in, and not a sign of Miss Holiday having
been near it.”

Mrs. Merridew said,

“Oh dear!” And then, “Oh, Florrie—she can’t just have disappeared!”

Florrie said what she wouldn’t have dreamed of saying if she hadn’t been
shaken out of her usual discretion.

“That’s what everyone said about Maggie, isn’t it? And where is she?
Walked out of the house no later than eight o’clock in the evening a
year ago and never come back.”

Mrs. Merridew found herself explaining to Miss Silver.

“She was Florrie’s cousin, Maggie Bell, and it was just as she says. She
lived with her parents in the cottage with the rose arch over the gate,
and she worked by the day for Lucy Cunningham. And she went out one
evening and never came back. She had been ironing, and she said she
wanted a breath of air.”

Florrie tossed her head.

“And that was just a manner of speaking! The old people were that
jealous of her going anywhere, she’d be obliged to have something to say
like that. And she’d run in to me and get a bit of a change without
having words about it.”

Mrs. Merridew reached behind her for the shawl which she wore when she
sat up in bed.

“I didn’t know she was coming round to you, Florrie.”

Florrie looked angry.

“I didn’t know it myself! She’d come when she wanted to and welcome!”

“Did you ever tell the police about that?”

“They didn’t ask me. Made up their minds she’d gone off to London. I
could have told them better than that, but they had their own ideas. The
old people were tiresome enough—I’m not saying they weren’t—but Maggie
wasn’t the one to run off and leave them. I’d say that, no matter who
said different. And as to that postcard that come down from London,
well, I can tell you right away, Maggie never wrote it.”

Miss Silver had been listening with the deepest interest. It was not
necessary for her to speak, since without any prompting on her part
Marian Merridew was asking all the right questions, and how much better
that she herself should not appear to be too much concerned.

Florrie’s last statement produced a cry of surprise from Mrs. Merridew.

“Oh, Florrie, you’ve never said that before!”

Florrie’s left shoulder jerked.

“Least said, soonest mended,” she said. And then, in an accusing voice,
“And what good will it do my saying anything? They didn’t ask me for one
thing, and I didn’t want to get mixed up with the police for another.
Nor I don’t now, so we won’t go on talking about it!”

“But, Florrie, you must have had some reason.”

“Reason enough and to spare, but none for talking about!”

Mrs. Merridew’s large fair face fell into lines of indecision. Even the
pressure of Miss Silver’s hand upon her arm failed to produce a further
question.

Florrie had turned to leave the room, when a slight cough stopped her.
It was immediately followed by the sound of her name.

“I mustn’t take up your time, and I can quite understand that the
subject is a painful one, but if, as you say, there has been a second
disappearance, then the trouble may not even stop there. There may be
others who are in danger.”

Florrie had turned. She stared, and said in an obstinate voice,

“I’ve said enough. Maybe I’ve said too much.”

Miss Silver said gently,

“You have said that your Cousin Maggie did not write the postcard which
came from London. You saw it of course?”

“Yes, I saw it.”

“It said, did it not, that she would come back as soon as she could, and
that you would come in and help her parents?”

Florrie’s face darkened.

“Who told you that?”

There was something in Miss Silver’s look which was asking her to speak.
She resisted it. There was something in her voice which put her in mind
of not knowing her answer in school and the teacher making it easy for
her. She resisted this too, but with a lessening force. Before the
encouraging smile which followed she no longer wanted to resist at all.
She felt instead the impulse to clear her mind of the thoughts which had
burdened it for so long. It became easier to speak than to hold back.
When Miss Silver said, “What made you think the card was not from
Maggie?” she said in a different voice,

“It was because of the way the names were spelt. Maggie wasn’t any
scholar, but we went to school together, and what she would always put
on her exercise-book was Maggy—written with a Y. And the same with my
name too. She hadn’t much call to write it, but if she did she’d spell
it with a Y like she did her own. And the names on the card was both
spelt out long with an IE at the end of them and not a Y, so I knew it
wasn’t Maggie that wrote them.”

Mrs. Merridew looked shocked. This time the pressure on her arm
counselled silence. Miss Silver said quietly,

“Maggie’s parents showed you the card. Did you point out to them that
the names were not spelled as she would have spelled them?”

Florrie said, “No.” She was twisting her hands together, and they were
shaking.

“Why did you not do so?”

Florrie caught her breath.

“They were taking on—bad enough—without. As it was, I could see they
wouldn’t get over it—Maggie being all they had, and never away from
them except just to go up the road to Miss Cunningham’s. So I
thought—so I thought—” She broke into a hard sob. “They’d enough,
hadn’t they—and the card was a bit of comfort—I hadn’t the heart to go
taking it away—”

Mrs. Merridew said,

“Oh dear! But you should have told the police—you really should.”

Florrie flung up her head.

“And how long would it have been before they came worrying my aunt and
uncle? I kept it, and I wouldn’t forgive myself if I hadn’t! And I don’t
know what made me speak of it, but they’re both gone now, and I suppose
it don’t matter. All I know is, Maggie wouldn’t have gone off like that,
and no more would Miss Holiday. They hadn’t got a boy friend, neither of
them, and that’s gospel. Maggie was two years older than what I am, and
Miss Holiday isn’t ever going to see fifty again. And not the dressy
sort, nor the sort that’s out to get a man, no matter how. Maggie
couldn’t be bothered with them, what with the dirt they bring into the
house and the work they make. And her father the old bully he was—well,
the way she saw it, you can’t get away from the relations you’re born
with, but to go and tie yourself up with a husband is clean flying in
the face of Providence. And as for Miss Holiday, men just scared her
stiff. Why, she wouldn’t go to work in a house where there was a
gentleman. Wouldn’t go down the lane to see Mrs. Selby that she’d taken
a fancy to and that was always asking her in—wouldn’t even go down to
her except when she knew Mr. Selby would be out of the way. Not quite
the gentleman of course, no more than Mrs. Selby is what you’d call a
lady, but not the kind anyone would be afraid of, if it wasn’t Miss
Holiday.”

Mrs. Merridew said,

“The Selbys live down at the end of the Vicarage Lane. He is a retired
business man. They have a great many hens, and he goes and plays darts
at the Holly Tree every night. He is a very sociable, friendly kind of
person, but I think she finds it lonely in the evenings when he is out.
I didn’t know that Miss Holiday went there so much.”

Florrie had come back to her usual manner. She said briskly,

“Well, I don’t know about so much. She’d go in there now and again when
he was at the Holly Tree, but go before he went or stay after he came
back was what she wouldn’t do and nothing would make her. And if she’d
feel like that about Mr. Selby she wouldn’t be likely to pick with any
strange man, nor he wouldn’t be likely to want to pick up with her, for
if anyone was the moral of an old maid, it was her, poor thing.”

Mrs. Merridew pulled her shawl closer about her and began to pour out.
Births, and deaths, and disappearances were things that happened, but it
didn’t help anyone to let a good pot of tea get stewed. She filled two
cups and said in a determinedly cheerful voice,

“Well, Florrie, we must hope for the best.”




                               CHAPTER 14


Miss Holiday had no relations—at least there were none that anyone had
ever heard of. She had been personal maid to old Lady Rowena Thorne, who
had allowed her, so everyone declared, to get into dreadfully muddly
ways. But then Lady Rowena was a dreadfully muddly old thing who looked
like a ragbag and lived in a cottage full of clutter and cats. There was
very little money, and out of what there was she left Miss Holiday an
annuity of fifty pounds a year, since when she had lodged with Mrs.
Maple and gone out to work by the day but never staying anywhere for
long. She was, in fact, too incompetent to be tolerated except in a case
where there was no one else to be had. All this, which was common
knowledge, Mrs. Merridew imparted to her guest.

Having become aware of Miss Silver’s professional activities through the
mutual friend in whose house they had met after so many years, she
readily acceded to a request that she should not speak of them. Since
she had from the time of her marriage been a person of some consequence
in the county, she was in fact rather more than willing to give the
desired pledge. Detection did not appear to her to be at all a suitable
career for a gentlewoman, and she had no wish that it should be
obtruded. At the same time, with poor Miss Holiday disappearing like
this, she found herself discussing the affair in a very interested
manner, deferring to Miss Silver’s opinion as to an expert, and very
ready to communicate any particulars which might prove helpful.

Florrie went grimly about her work and contributed nothing more, except
to remark in tones of gloom that those that hadn’t turned up by now
wasn’t going to, and no use saying any different. Mrs. Maple was
understood to be of the same opinion, and was already beginning to turn
over in her mind the rival merits of two prospective lodgers.

The Melbury police, to whom the disappearance had been reported, had
sent over a constable to make enquiries, but rumour had it that he had
found it quite impossible to induce Mrs. Maple to hear his questions. It
being well known in the village that she didn’t hold with the police and
could at any time be as deaf as she chose, nobody was surprised. It was,
in fact, considered that Constable Denning had taken an unfair advantage
by submitting a set of questions in writing, and Mrs. Maple’s defensive
action in mislaying her glasses and declaring that she couldn’t read a
word without them was warmly approved.

Meanwhile there was quite a lot going on behind the scenes. There were
consultations on a gradually ascending scale, arriving ultimately at
what are termed higher levels. Never could Miss Holiday have supposed
that she would be the subject of so much speculation and interest. Hazel
Green communicated with Melbury, and Melbury with the Chief Constable of
Melshire, who got busy with Scotland Yard and with the Security people.
The affair might be negligible or it might not—it might be of the
utmost importance. But there must be no publicity, no headlines in the
press. The greatest discretion must be observed. Hazel Green might buzz
with gossip and come to its own gloomy conclusions, but, at any rate for
the present, the official attitude must be that it was a purely local
matter, and that Miss Holiday had probably taken it into her head to go
off and visit a friend.

The village did not take kindly to this theory. Mrs. Stubbs spoke for
everyone when she enquired with a toss of the head,

“And what friends has she got, poor thing? None that ever I heard tell
about, nor anyone else either! In to Melbury for the pictures and back
again, that’s all the outings she ever had—and she wouldn’t go there of
a Sunday. And if she went anywhere by bus, someone would have seen her,
wouldn’t they? As to getting a lift in a car, well, anyone that knew her
wouldn’t talk so silly—she’d have been frightened to death!”

Craig Lester had got a little tired of the subject by the time he set
out for Crewe House. With the church clock striking four as he went up
the road, he could make sure of being on hand to walk back again with
Rosamond, who like himself had been bidden to tea at the White Cottage.

Since none of the windows commanded the drive, which, to tell the truth,
was a good deal overgrown, it was his intention to remain in its shelter
until Rosamond appeared. As he waited he thought how badly the whole
place needed attention. Trees and shrubs crowded one another in a
struggle for light and air. The undergrowth was a mere tangle. The
leaves of many seasons lay rotting where they had fallen. Moisture
dripped upon them from above, though there had been no rain since lunch.
A grey sky and more rain to come. Damp air moving overhead.

Rosamond came into view, hurrying a little because Lydia Crewe had rung
her bell just as she was starting. She wore an old tweed coat and a blue
scarf over the dark clusters of her hair. It brought up the blue in her
eyes. She was almost running, but when she saw him she slowed to a walk.

“Oh—I’m going out!”

“To tea with Mrs. Merridew? So am I. I thought I would walk down with
you. If you hadn’t any real objection.”

She gave him a wide friendly smile.

“How nice of you. But we ought to hurry, because I think I’m late. Aunt
Lydia wanted me.”

“What for?”

“Oh, just—something she wanted. It didn’t take long, but I had run it
rather fine talking to Jenny.”

He said deliberately,

“They are both quite good at seeing you don’t get too much time off,
aren’t they? If one of them isn’t holding on to you, the other is. You
know, you’re going to make Jenny just as selfish and exigeant as Miss
Crewe if you’re not careful.”

“Craig!”

“Well, it’s true, isn’t it?”

She said in a protesting voice,

“She has been so ill. They thought she was going to die.”

“Well, they don’t think so any longer. Wake up, Rosamond and use your
common sense! You know as well as I do that Jenny isn’t leading a normal
life, and she could—” He paused and added, “_now_.”

He saw the startled colour rise as she turned towards him.

“What do you mean?”

“You know very well. She is too much with grown-ups and with books. She
ought to be learning and playing with children of her own age.”

She opened her lips to speak, but the words didn’t come. He slipped a
hand inside her arm.

“All right—go on and say it. It’s not so easy to think of Jenny as a
child—that’s what you were going to say, wasn’t it? And you stopped
yourself because it gave your case away. As a matter of fact, my sweet,
you haven’t got a case, and it’s no use your trying to cook one up.
Neither you nor Jenny has any business to be at Crewe House, and you
know it.”

She still had that startled look, but there was anger as well.

“You want to send Jenny to school, and you want to get me away from
here!”

“I certainly do. And I certainly think that Jenny would be better at
school.”

“She isn’t nearly strong enough.”

Another turn of the drive and they would be within sight of the road.
Instinctively she stopped.

“Craig, you mustn’t—you mustn’t really! Don’t you know it’s what Aunt
Lydia wants—to get rid of Jenny, so that I can do more, and more, and
more for her and for the house?”

He said coolly,

“It may be what she means, but it isn’t what is going to happen. You
give her a month to find someone else, and then you marry me, and you
take Jenny away. After which we decide what is the best kind of school
for her.”

“She isn’t fit for it.”

At least she hadn’t said that she would not marry him. Perhaps she had
merely overlooked his assumption that she would. He left the point to be
settled later.

He said, “Has it occurred to you that Jenny can walk a great deal better
than she makes out?”

She pulled away from him.

“No, of course it hasn’t!”

“Well, it has to me. As a plain matter of fact she limps when you are
there, and she doesn’t when you are out of the room.”

Her eyes were bright and angry.

“She is proud and sensitive. She doesn’t like to let a stranger see her
limp.”

“Rubbish! She puts on an act for you, and she doesn’t bother about it
for me.”

“Why should she?”

“Oh, she has to outbid Aunt Lydia.”

“Craig!”

“When did the specialist see her last?”

“Two months ago.”

“Did he say she could walk?”

“Well—”

“I see—he did. Did he want to see her again?”

“He said—” The words broke off.

“He didn’t!”

She took a step away from him.

“It isn’t only the limp. If she does too much—it hurts.”

“Not very seriously, I think.”

All her colour was gone. She said in a stranger’s voice,

“I think we had better stop talking about it. Mrs. Merridew won’t like
it if we’re late.”

“I suppose not. Why don’t you ask me why I’ve been saying all this?”

Something in his tone arrested her. The startled look returned. She said
in a voice like an echo,

“Why—”

Craig Lester said,

“I think we must keep Mrs. Merridew waiting whilst I tell you. I
couldn’t sleep last night—it’s always fatal to start thinking after
midnight. In the end I dressed, got out of one of the back windows, and
went for a stroll. It was about a quarter past one. I walked up in this
direction, and someone was getting over the stile just across the road
from where the drive comes out. There was a car coming, and whoever it
was stood still and waited for it to pass. As it came round that little
bit of a bend, the lights picked up the hedge and the person standing
there. Well, it was Jenny.”

“Jenny? Oh, no!”

“Oh, yes, it was Jenny all right. There’s no mistaking that hair.
Besides I saw her face.”

They both had the same picture—Jenny in the beam of the headlights, her
bright hair glowing. Rosamond said on a gasp,

“Craig, she looked—there was something different about her this
morning. I couldn’t think what it was—as if—as if—oh, I don’t know.
She must have been walking in her sleep.”

He shook his head.

“Oh, no, she wasn’t! Anything but! As soon as the car had gone by she
laughed and came skipping across the road. Then she ran off up the
drive. I followed at a discreet distance and saw her go in at the side
door. When I had heard her lock it I went back to the Holly Tree. But I
thought you had better know.”

“But why—why?”

“I imagine she slips out because she wants to walk and skip, and she
doesn’t want anyone to see her because she doesn’t want to be packed off
to school. I think it’s quite simple. And there’s no need for you to
look as if the roof had just fallen in. It can be dealt with all right.
And now perhaps we had better put our best foot forward and save our
faces with Mrs. Merridew.”




                               CHAPTER 15


Mrs. Merridew’s drawing-room suffered from the fault of all rooms which
have been furnished with the treasures of a much larger one. There were
a number of fine pieces, but no space to display them. There were too
many pictures on the walls, a sizable antique mirror on the
chimney-breast, and a great deal too much china everywhere. The chairs
and a very deep sofa, though much too large, were extremely comfortable,
and the loose chintz covers, in spite of being a good deal faded, went
very well with a worn but valuable Persian rug and the curtains which
had once adorned the morning-room at Dalling Grange.

Miss Silver considered the whole effect to be pleasing, and was
particularly appreciative of the fact that the windows fitted extremely
well. Old houses were often so sadly draughty, but in this case there
was nothing to complain about. A pleasant fire burned on the hearth, and
the room was so comfortably warm that she was able to wear the blue
dress which she had bought at Cliffton at the end of the previous
summer. She had hesitated a little over the price, but her niece Ethel
Burkett had persuaded her. “Such good style, Auntie. I am sure you would
never regret it.” She wore it now with a large mosaic brooch
representing an Italian scene—cupolas against a very bright blue sky.
The material, being dark, threw up the vivid colouring of the brooch in
a decidedly pleasing manner. She felt modestly satisfied with her own
appearance, and wished that dear Marian would take more trouble. So much
hair and so badly controlled, and her figure really too large for that
tight mauve jumper. The colour too, not at all becoming, but Marian had
always been fond of it, even at school.

Mrs. Merridew who, having once acquired a garment, never thought about
it again but continued to wear it until either Florrie or some candid
friend intervened, was now discoursing placidly about the friends she
was expecting to tea.

“Lucy Cunningham I feel sure you will like. She has had a difficult
life, but she is wonderfully cheerful as a rule—devoted to her nephew
and to poor Henry, and a good deal taken up with her hens. As I told
you, she and Lydia Crewe are great friends, but I purposely didn’t ask
her yesterday, because Lydia does ride rough-shod over everyone, and
when she is there she doesn’t give Lucy a chance. I asked Henry too. I
always do, but he never comes. Such a pity to shut himself away like
that—don’t you think so?”

Miss Silver opined that men very often seemed not to care about
tea-parties.

“I know—but such a pity. There are so few ways left in which one can
entertain. I really hesitated to ask Mr. Lester, but he seemed quite
pleased to come. As I told him, we knew his uncle very well indeed. And
then, I’m afraid, I did just drop a hint that I had asked Rosamond
Maxwell. They are certainly on very friendly terms, and Lydia may say
what she likes, but when young people are on friendly terms they like to
be asked to meet one another. It’s really shocking how Lydia keeps that
girl mewed up. I used to think that perhaps she and Nicholas—but of
course there isn’t any money there, and Jenny needs so much care—” She
broke off as the sound of footsteps and a murmur of conversation
announced that two of the guests were coming up the flagged path to the
front door. She had just time to say, “That will be Rosamond and Mr.
Lester. Lucy is always late,” when Florrie opened the door and showed
them in.

Rosamond had left her coat in the hall and taken off the scarf which had
been tied over her hair. Her blue jumper threw up the colour of her
eyes. Miss Silver thought her a most attractive girl. She also thought
that she had something on her mind. It was, of course, quite obvious
that Mr. Lester was in love with her. He made no attempt to hide the
fact. But in Miss Silver’s opinion it was not the pleasing disturbance
of a love affair which had brought that anxious look to Rosamond
Maxwell’s face.

Lucy Cunningham walked in without ringing the bell, a habit to which
Florrie ought to have been accustomed, but which never failed to annoy
her. She followed with an air of protest and set the tray down in front
of Mrs. Merridew with what was almost a clatter.

Miss Cunningham, having hung her largest coat on a peg in the hall, was
now divesting herself of a voluminous cardigan and three scarves.

“I’m sure I don’t know how you can sit in such a hot room, Marian, but I
shall be all right when I get some of these things off. The temperature
must be at least sixty-five. There—I’m down to my jumper! I made it
myself, and Nicholas is very rude about it, but I like the colour—it
reminds me of moss. Of course Henry never notices what one has on. Well,
my dear Marian, I’m sorry if I am late, but just as I was putting on my
hat I saw that dreadful cat of Mrs. Parson’s sharpening its claws on the
standard Alberic Barbier which Nicholas gave me for Christmas—one of
those weeping ones, you know. So of course I had to go out and shoo him
away.... Oh, yes, I’ve met Miss Silver. Don’t you remember, you
introduced us at the bus stop. How do you do? You and Marian were at
school together, weren’t you? So nice to meet one’s old friends.”

It was clear that when not held in check by Miss Crewe, Lucy Cunningham
could be depended upon to keep any conversation from flagging. The
broody hen which she had borrowed from Mrs. Stubbs was settling down
nicely with her clutch of eggs—“My own cross, Rhode Island Red and
White Leghorn. Nothing like it!” And she actually discoursed for at
least ten minutes upon its virtues whilst at the same time disposing of
three scones and a slice of cake before Miss Holiday’s name cropped up.

Rosamond was talking to Mrs. Merridew, and Craig Lester was joining in,
when Miss Lucy interrupted her own remarks about the very unsatisfactory
eggs she had procured for setting last year, “Only three hatched out of
the dozen, and I told her quite plainly that they were stale,” to say
with a sudden change of voice,

“Oh dear, hasn’t Miss Holiday turned up yet?”

Mrs. Merridew shook her head. Rosamond said,

“No, she hasn’t. It’s the most extraordinary thing. We can’t think what
has happened.”

“Lydia must be dreadfully put out,” said Lucy Cunningham.

It became clear that it was from this angle that she viewed the
disappearance, the burden of her remarks being that of course Miss
Holiday would turn up, but that meanwhile Lydia was being
inconvenienced, and that if you had to go away in a hurry, the least you
could do was to let your employer know.

“Only that’s the last thing they ever think about. I suppose she didn’t
have words with Mrs. Bolder? A wonderful cook, but oh, my dear, what a
temper! It couldn’t have been that could it?”

Rosamond said reluctantly,

“I don’t know—there may have been something. Mrs. Bolder didn’t seem so
very much surprised when she didn’t turn up this morning—just tossed
her head and said something like ‘Oh, she’ll get over it.’ So I thought
perhaps—but that was before we knew about her not having been home all
night.”

Miss Cunningham nodded vigorously.

“Well, I daresay they’d had a tiff, but I don’t suppose it amounted to
anything. And she’s been coming to you for some time—she ought to be
used to Mrs. Bolder by now. It can’t be the first time she’s had the
rough side of her tongue. I can’t imagine—I really can’t—what could
possibly have taken her away. When there’s a family, of course, you
never know, but she hasn’t got a relation in the world—she often said
so. And she was quite all right when I met her.”

“Oh, when was that?” Rosamond and Mrs. Merridew spoke together.

Miss Lucy beamed.

“When I was on my way up to you, my dear. You know I couldn’t come to
tea, and then I was later than I meant to be because of going in to see
Mrs. Stubbs about the broody hen, so it must have been all of half past
five if not more—but I don’t suppose that matters—She was just coming
out of the drive as I turned in, and she seemed perfectly all right
then.”

Miss Silver regarded her with interest.

“Did you speak to her?” she enquired.

Miss Cunningham had a full cup in her hand. She had been about to drink
from it when Miss Silver spoke. Somehow the cup slipped and some of the
tea splashed down upon the moss-green jumper. Miss Lucy exclaimed,
produced a large clean but extremely crumpled handkerchief, and
proceeded to dab at the stain. Recourse was had to the hot water-jug.
Rosamond ran and fetched a tea-cloth. The overflowing saucer was
emptied, the cup replaced, and the opinion expressed that no mark would
be left on the bright green wool.

“A most unfortunate accident,” said Miss Silver, “but I believe there
will be no ill effects. Now, what were we talking about? Oh, yes that
poor Miss Holiday. You had met her coming away from her work, and you
said she seemed quite as usual. You spoke to her, then?”

“Oh, just a few words,” said Lucy Cunningham.




                               CHAPTER 16


The tea-party broke up rather early. Rosamond was uneasy about Jenny,
and Lucy Cunningham about Mrs. Parsons’s cat.

“I did ask Henry to keep an eye on the garden, but you know what men
are, they become immersed. And cats are so determined. If it wants to
sharpen its claws on that particular tree it will persevere.”

“Well, I don’t see how you are going to stop it, my dear.”

“A squirtful of water,” said Miss Cunningham firmly. “If I get back now
there will be just enough light.”

When they had gone Mrs. Merridew allowed herself a little indignation.

“I can’t imagine why Lucy should expect the Parsons’s cat to be sitting
there waiting for her to come home and fill a squirt. It seems
ridiculous to me, and I very nearly told her so. Dear me—who on earth
can this be!”

She had been looking in the direction of the window to watch Miss Lucy
go. She now saw a tall, elegant young man come up the flagged path and
disappear behind the jasmine on the porch. Miss Silver had a
premonition. She was therefore not really surprised when Florrie looked
round the edge of the door, a habit of which Mrs. Merridew had tried in
vain to break her, and announced that Mr. Abbott had called to see Miss
Silver—“and I put him in the dining-room.” Had Frank but known it, this
was an almost unexampled tribute. If Florrie knew anyone she showed him
in. If she didn’t she left him standing in the hall, or in an extreme
case upon the doorstep. Mrs. Merridew had laboured in vain. In this, as
in a good many other directions, Florrie took her own way.

Miss Silver picked up her knitting-bag and made haste to forestall the
invitation which she saw rising to Mrs. Merridew’s lips.

“An old friend who, I believe, may have called on a matter of business.
You will not mind if I see him in the dining-room, Marian?”

Mrs. Merridew was disappointed. She would have liked to meet her
schoolfellow’s old friend. She said so as Miss Silver withdrew, but she
was not at all sure that her remark had been heard. The door closed, and
she was left to wonder what the old friend’s business could be.

In the dining-room Miss Silver took a chair. When Frank Abbott had also
seated himself she said,

“I must not stay too long, or my kind hostess will feel hurt. If you can
spare the time before you go, I should like to introduce you. I did not
really like to neglect her offer to bring you into the drawing-room, but
in the light of recent developments it occurred to me that you might
wish to see me privately.”

He nodded.

“Yes, of course. I take it you are well up to date in the matter of this
latest disappearance. Well, it is fairly fluttering the official
dovecotes. You see, it may be important, or it may be nothing at all.
They don’t like to neglect the first possibility, but they don’t want to
make fools of themselves by treating it as a matter of urgency, and then
find out that the lady has just gone off on a jaunt.”

“No one in Hazel Green believes in that as a possibility.”

He laughed.

“Of course they don’t! Trust a village to make up its mind to the worst!
No one will actually say so, but there will be the deepest
disappointment if it turns out that she has been week-ending with the
odd friend or relation.”

Miss Silver looked grave.

“She has lived here for a good many years, and no one knows of any such
relation or friend. But you were saying?”

“So I was. Delicate situation of the high-ups. And when the high-ups are
in a delicate situation the low-downs don’t always know exactly where
they are. And that goes for you and me. In the upshot, I continue my
visit, and you continue yours. You, in fact, are just where you were,
and you keep your eyes and your ears open and pass on anything that
comes your way. I am rather more complicated than that. Scotland Yard
has been asked to allow me to remain, but I’ve been given a strong hint
to be as unobtrusive as I can. Just in case it all turns out to be
nothing, when nobody will want to look as if they had picked up a
sledgehammer to take a swipe at a midge.”

Miss Silver had opened her knitting-bag. She produced little Josephine’s
cherry-coloured hood, now more than half completed. The bright wool made
a pleasant contrast with the dark blue of her dress. She said,

“I understand perfectly. The whole affair calls for discretion.”

“You’ve said it! And that being that, what have you got to tell me?”

The grey needles clicked.

“Not very much, I am afraid, and probably nothing that you do not
already know. I am, of course, fortunately placed here, as Mrs. Merridew
knows everyone in the neighbourhood and her daily maid is a cousin of
Maggie Bell who disappeared from Hazel Green a year ago. She is, in
fact, the Florrie mentioned on the card received by Mr. and Mrs. Bell
after Maggie’s disappearance and supposed to have been written by her.”

“Supposed?”

“Florrie says that Maggie always wrote both their names with a Y,
whereas on the card the spelling is IE.”

“I thought there were no specimens of Maggie’s handwriting.”

“Maggie and Florrie were at school together. She is quite positive that
Maggie did not write that card.”

“Then why didn’t she say so? She didn’t—did she?”

“Oh, no. She is the type who would never tell anything to the police.
And she said the card was being a comfort to Maggie’s parents and she
couldn’t take it from them. They are dead now, but she only burst out
about it in the shock of Miss Holiday’s disappearance.”

“It was a shock to her?”

“A very considerable one.”

“Well, that’s that. What else?”

She was knitting rapidly, her expression serious and intent. It was a
moment before she said,

“There are two households here intimately connected with one another and
with the two women who have disappeared. The Cunninghams live in the
Dower House, just out of the village, and next door to them in Crewe
House there is Miss Lydia Crewe. Both these ladies are old friends of
Mrs. Merridew’s, and I have met them here at tea. Maggie Bell worked for
the Cunninghams. The household consists of Miss Lucy, who is in her
middle fifties, a brother Henry, and her nephew Nicholas, employed as a
draughtsman at the Dalling Grange experimental station. Miss Crewe is,
or was, Miss Holiday’s employer. She is on terms of old and intimate
friendship with Miss Cunningham, whom she is said to dominate. More than
twenty years ago there was an engagement between her and Miss
Cunningham’s brother Henry. Following on the unsubstantiated suspicion
that he had been concerned in the disappearance of a valuable diamond
ring, Henry Cunningham left the country. I have not been able to
discover what foundation there was for this rumour. The lady who owned
the ring has long since left the neighbourhood. She was a Mrs. Maberly,
the wife of a rich self-made man, and notoriously careless about her
belongings, but Henry Cunningham seems to have taken the gossip very
much to heart. In fact, my dear Frank, he ran away from it, and from his
engagement to Lydia Crewe. He returned about three years ago, and lives
in a very retired manner, occupying himself with bird-watching and
nature study. Most of this you will know already, but you may not be
aware of the persistent and painful breach between him and Miss Crewe.
Only yesterday they met just outside this house as she arrived to have
tea with Mrs. Merridew, and according to what I am told is her
invariable practice she cut him dead. In spite of which her intimate
friendship with his sister continues. Nicholas Cunningham is also a
constant visitor at Crewe House, and she is said to be devoted to him.
Her household consists of herself, her nieces Rosamond and Jenny
Maxwell, the latter a child of twelve and recovering from a serious
motor accident sustained a couple of years ago, and the cook, Mrs.
Bolder, an old trusted servant with a rather celebrated temper. Miss
Holiday and a girl called Ivy Blane are daily helps, but Ivy does not go
there on Sundays.”

“Do you mean that Miss Holiday does?”

“Yes. As I told you, she has neither friends nor relations, and I gather
that the midday meal is an attraction. She has just the one room at Mrs.
Maple’s, and she is no cook.”

Frank laughed.

“I’ve been hearing about Mrs. Maple. I gather she routed Denning horse
and foot. I want you to come round there with me if you will by and by.
At present all we know is that the cook at Crewe House says Miss Holiday
left at about half past five, and we don’t know whether she ever got
home or not, because Mrs. Maple can’t be induced to tell us. Which
leaves Mrs. Bolder the last person to see her. In other words, we don’t
know for certain that she ever left Crewe House.”

Miss Silver stopped him.

“Oh, yes,” she said—“Miss Cunningham met her.”

“And how do you know that?”

“Because she mentioned it when she was here at tea this afternoon. Mrs.
Merridew was wondering whether there had been any quarrel between Miss
Holiday and the cook, and Miss Cunningham said, ‘Oh, she looked all
right when I met her’. She was apparently on her way up to Crewe House,
when she encountered Miss Holiday coming away. They met at the foot of
the drive. I asked Miss Cunningham whether she had spoken to her, and
she spilt her tea. I do not wish to stress this incident, because I
believe it may have been quite accidental. Miss Cunningham is a large,
untidy person. Her movements are very often jerky. She appears to be
very good-natured.”

“But she spilt her tea.”

“Yes, she spilt her tea. And when I recurred to the subject of Miss
Holiday and again asked whether she had spoken to her, she looked vague
and said in an absent-minded sort of way, ‘Oh, just a few words’.”




                               CHAPTER 17


Mrs. Maple sat and looked at her visitor. Naturally, she knew Miss
Silver by sight—visiting Mrs. Merridew at the White Cottage, and an old
school friend. Florrie Hunt spoke well of her, and it wasn’t everybody
that got the soft side of Florrie’s tongue. But the gentleman with
her—well, he was a bit of a puzzler. A gentleman he was and you
couldn’t get from it, and none of those nasty uniforms. But if he hadn’t
got something to do with the police, why was he here and wanting to know
about Miss Holiday? For the matter of that, why was Mrs. Merridew’s
friend here either? Questions they wanted answered. Nice clear voices
they’d got—took the trouble to open their mouths and speak plain so
that you could hear what they said. But she hadn’t properly made up her
mind whether she’d let on that she’d heard them or not. Perhaps she
would, and perhaps she wouldn’t—she was in two minds about it. She was
getting a little tired of being out of whatever it was that was going
on, but on the other hand she wasn’t going to make herself cheap by
talking to constables and such.

She was a very clean, tidy old woman with a round face, blue eyes, and
an obstinate chin. Her white hair was done up in a great many tight
plaits at the back of her head, and she wore a black stuff dress and a
hand-knitted purple cardigan. No one could have found a speck of dust
anywhere in the house. She gazed mildly at Miss Silver and said,

“I’m hard of hearing.”

Miss Silver made the comment that it was a sad affliction, and Mrs.
Maple found that she could hear her comfortably. Approving the
sentiment, she made up her mind to oblige. She folded her hands in her
lap and said graciously,

“I don’t rightly know what it’s all about. There’s people that come in
and you can’t hear a word they say—nothing but mumble, mumble, mumble.
And most upsetting it is, for what you don’t hear you can’t answer, but
so far as I can I’m sure I’m more than willing if there’s anything the
gentleman wants to ask me—or you, ma’am.”

Frank leaned towards her.

“That is very good of you, Mrs. Maple. We just want to know whether Miss
Holiday came home at all last night.”

Mrs. Maple shook her head.

“Seven o’clock I woke up same as I always do, and downstairs to get
myself a cup of tea. There was a lady I lived with put me in the way of
it, and Miss Holiday she likes one too, so I come down, and as a rule
she won’t be long. As soon as she hears me she’ll slip into her
dressing-gown and be after me for her cup of tea. Then back she’ll go
upstairs and into her clothes and off up to Crewe House where she gets
her breakfast. Mrs. Bolder’s a good hand with hens, and there’ll be an
egg most days this time of the year. I’ll say that for Mrs. Bolder, a
temper she may have and there’s no denying it, but she don’t grudge
anyone their food. Very good meals they have up at Crewe House and Miss
Holiday couldn’t say different.”

“But this morning she did not come down for her cup of tea?” said Miss
Silver.

Mrs. Maple shook her head.

“Not a sign of her. So I called up the stairs, and when I’d called three
times I went up, and there was her room with nobody in it and the bed
not slept in.”

Frank Abbott said,

“You don’t think she could have got up and gone out early? If she had
done that she would have made her bed before she went, wouldn’t she? Are
you quite sure she didn’t go out?”

Mrs. Maple produced a slight air of triumph.

“With both of the doors locked and all the windows latched!” she said.

“I see. Then it comes to this—the last you saw of Miss Holiday was when
she went off to Crewe House yesterday morning?”

Mrs. Maple tossed her head.

“Time enough to say what it comes to when you’ve heard me say it!”

Frank smiled in an agreeable manner.

“Well, when did you see her last?”

Mrs. Maple was enjoying herself. There wasn’t anyone could tell them
what they wanted to know except her, and she wasn’t going to be in too
much of a hurry. If you made things too easy for people they didn’t
think any the better of you for it. She retreated into being rather
deafer than she need have been.

“Ten years past she’s been lodging here,” she said, “and never gone over
her time.”

“Yes, but when did you see her last, Mrs. Maple?”

She decided that perhaps she had better hear him. She shook her head in
a melancholy way.

“Ah, now, if you’d said that to start with. I’m sure I’m not one to keep
anything back—far from it. Now let me see—she come in a quarter to six
by the church clock, but I didn’t speak to her then—not to say speak.”

“That is what we wanted to know—whether she came back here after
leaving Crewe House.”

“Oh, yes, she come back all right.”

“You are sure about that?”

Mrs. Maple drew herself up in an offended manner.

“I may be hard of hearing, but I’ve the use of my eyes, sir.”

Miss Silver judged it prudent to interpose.

“And you saw Miss Holiday come into the house at a quarter to six?”

“With my own eyes,” said Mrs. Maple. “And up the stairs to her room.”

“Would there be anything out of the usual about that?”

Mrs. Maple couldn’t say that there would, adding that Miss Holiday
wasn’t the chattering kind, which she didn’t hold with herself and
wouldn’t have kept her ten years if she had been.

“And when did she go out again?” said Frank Abbott.

“Well now—” She considered, her plump form upright, her head a little
on one side. “Just after seven it would have been, because I’d heard the
church clock strike the hour.”

“Then you can hear the clock strike all right?”

“Seeing it’s just about overhead, so I ought! Deaf as a post I’d have to
be before I couldn’t hear that! When she first come here Miss Holiday
used to complain about it, but I told her she’d get used to it, and she
did.”

Frank maintained his agreeable smile. If he tried to push her he would
get nothing.

“So she went out again at seven. Did she say where she was going?”

It is possible that Mrs. Maple discerned the impatience which he was at
so much pains to hide. She produced a clean pocket-handkerchief and
leaned her nose against it in a meditative manner.

“She wouldn’t go out without letting me know,” she said.

“Where was she going, Mrs. Maple?”

This time she gave him his answer.

“Oh, just down the road to see Mrs. Selby.”

Miss Silver said in her ordinary voice,

“They live just at the end of the lane. He is a retired business man,
and they keep hens. Florrie tells me that Miss Holiday would sometimes
go in to keep Mrs. Selby company in the evening while Mr. Selby was at
the Holly Tree.”

It appeared that Mrs. Maple had been perfectly able to follow this
speech. She said,

“That’s right. Miss Holiday’s a bit soft about men—don’t hold with them
and wouldn’t go down to the Selbys only when Mr. Selby was out of the
way.”

“She was afraid of him?”

Mrs. Maple looked superior.

“Not of him special—it was just men she didn’t hold with. Nobody
couldn’t be afraid of Mr. Selby. Sweets for the children, and a laugh
and a joke for everyone. Why, in most houses where there was a gentleman
Miss Holiday wouldn’t go into them at all, but she’d go down to Mrs.
Selby’s when she knew Mr. Selby would be out.”

“And she could count on that—Sundays and all?”

Mrs. Maple nodded.

“Till closing time—regular as clockwork.”

Frank Abbott took up his questioning again.

“So Miss Holiday went out to see Mrs. Selby soon after seven o’clock.
What time would you ordinarily expect her back?”

“Nine o’clock. Not often she’d be later than that. Come nine o’clock I’m
in my bed, and she knows it.”

“And if she should be any later, would you sit up for her?”

“Not for her nor for no one,” said Mrs. Maple in an obstinate voice.
“I’ve got to have my rest. Nine o’clock I’m in my bed and I won’t go
from it.”

“Then if she came back after nine?”

“She’d find the key under the mat same as I put it when she goes in to
Melbury for the pictures.”

“And where was the key this morning, Mrs. Maple?”

She said in a voice with a sudden quaver in it,

“Under the mat—same as I put it when I went upstairs.”

“So she didn’t come in?”

Mrs. Maple had recovered herself. She didn’t know why she had had that
moment when everything seemed to shake. She was all right again now. She
said,

“Stands to reason she didn’t—not if the key was under the mat.”




                               CHAPTER 18


The church clock struck again. It certainly sounded as if it was right
overhead. Frank looked at his watch. A quarter to seven. Mr. Selby would
doubtless be at the Holly Tree indulging in darts and the social glass.
Mrs. Selby would, however, be at home.

He walked down the lane with Miss Silver. The house, when they arrived
at it, could be discerned as a bungalow, and he could definitely smell
the hens. There being no barking dog to announce their arrival, he used
a knocker with a modern gimcrack feel about it. There was a pattering of
footsteps and one of the casement windows on the right was pushed open a
little way. A nervous voice said,

“Is there anyone there? Who is it?”

It was Miss Silver who answered.

“Mrs. Selby? May we come in? I think you may know me by sight. My name
is Silver, and I am staying with Mrs. Merridew.”

Mrs. Selby sounded relieved.

“Oh, yes—of course—I’ve seen you with her. Oh, yes—Miss Silver.”

She came pattering round to the door and opened it. There was no light
in the passage behind her, but at the far end a door stood open to a
lighted room.

“You will excuse me for keeping you waiting, Miss Silver—and—and—”

“Mr. Abbott,” said Miss Silver in her most reassuring voice.

Mrs. Selby caught her breath in a nervous manner.

“Miss Silver and Mr. Abbott—you must excuse me—but when Mr. Selby is
out I just like to see who is at the door before I open it.”

Miss Silver said, “A most prudent step,” and they all went down the
passage to the lighted room.

Everything in it was new. The fact struck upon the eye and made rather
the same effect as a painting without light or shade. There was a
crimson carpet with a striking and quite hideous pattern resembling
green and yellow tadpoles, now thinly scattered, now densely clustered.
There was a suite covered in green plushette, curtains of crimson
chenille, and two very large blue vases on the mantelpiece. The overhead
light streamed down through an inverted bowl of pink glass.

As she closed the door and turned to her visitors Mrs. Selby wore an air
of modest pride. She did not share Mr. Selby’s delight in a country
life, but this room was a quite undoubted solace. There wasn’t a thing
in it that hadn’t been bought new when they came here—nothing old,
nothing shabby, nothing used until you were sick and tired of the sight
of it. She came forward, a small woman, rather bent, and looking older
than the jovial Mr. Selby, but then she had a worrying disposition and
the delicate skin which takes on lines before it need. She had on a
bright blue skirt and an equally bright pink jumper. Her hair showed
hardly any grey.

Miss Silver said in her pleasant voice,

“This is very kind of you, Mrs. Selby. Mr. Abbott and I are making some
enquiries with regard to Miss Holiday. I am sure you must be most
concerned on her behalf.”

The tears sprang into Mrs. Selby’s faded eyes. She produced a
handkerchief with a bunch of flowers embroidered across the corner and
dabbed.

“Oh, yes, I am. We can’t think what has happened to her, Mr. Selby and
I. We are most distressed. You see, he is out a good deal. Gentlemen do
like a bit of society, and he goes up to the Holly Tree for his game of
darts most evenings. So then he has always said to me, ‘You have in
anyone you like—there’s no need to be moping alone’, and Miss Holiday
being so near, only a step up the lane—well, I asked her in, and after
a bit she’d come once or twice in the week, and nice for both of us.”

Miss Silver sat primly upright in one corner of the crimson settee. She
wore her black cloth coat, but had loosened the warm fur tippet which
made it so cozy in a wind. Her hands were encased in black woollen
gloves, and her neat pale features shaded by the black felt hat which
had now been her second-best for a couple of years. A small bunch of
purple stock and mignonette nestled among the loops of ribbon with which
it was trimmed.

Frank Abbott had seated himself in a chair on the left of the fire. He
spoke now for the first time.

“Did Miss Holiday come and see you last night?”

Mrs. Selby turned her eyes on him. They must have been pretty eyes once,
but the colour had gone out of them, and even the few tears she had just
shed had reddened the lids.

“Oh, yes,” she said, “she came in about seven and we had a cup of tea
together.”

“And did she seem just as usual?”

“Oh, yes, she did—except that—” She broke off, the handkerchief at her
eyes again.

“Except what?”

“It wasn’t anything—only—”

He said with quiet pertinacity,

“Only—”

“Well, it wasn’t anything at all, only there had been a few words with
Mrs. Bolder up at Crewe House where she goes to oblige.”

“Do you know what the words were about?”

Mrs. Selby became more animated than he had seen her.

“They don’t need to be about anything when it’s Mrs. Bolder,” she said.
“Dreadful to have a temper like she has, and all for nothing.”

“Do you know what it was about this time?”

Mrs. Selby shook her head.

“Something to do with making up a fire as far as I could tell, but I
tried to turn her thoughts from it.”

“Was she upset?”

“Well, not to say _upset_—you really couldn’t say as much as that. Just
talking about Mrs. Bolder having such a temper and never knowing what
would set it off. And then we had our cup of tea and she started telling
me all about that Lady Rowena she used to be companion to, and how she
never thought she’d come down to going out to oblige.”

“She was depressed, then?”

Mrs. Selby looked surprised.

“Well no, not _depressed_. It always cheers her up talking about Lady
Rowena. She likes talking about her.”

Miss Silver said,

“Was she quite cheerful when she went away?”

“Oh, yes, Miss Silver.”

“Mrs. Selby, at what time did she leave you?”

“It would be just before nine o’clock. Oh, Miss Silver—you don’t think
anything has happened to her, do you? She was quite pleased, and she
thought she must be going because of Mrs. Maple not liking her to be out
after nine—only the night she’d go into Melbury to the pictures, and
rather a fuss about that. And it’s nothing but a step up the lane—oh, I
don’t see how anything could have happened to her when it’s such a
little way.”

Frank Abbott said cheerfully,

“Well, we don’t know that anything has happened to her, Mrs. Selby, but
we must just go on making enquiries. Now, as you were the last person to
see her, perhaps you can tell us how she was dressed.”

“Oh, she had on her blue.”

“That wouldn’t be what she was working in up at Crewe House.”

Mrs. Selby looked shocked.

“Oh, no—she wouldn’t come down here in _that_! This was her blue that
she got last year—a very nice shade that went well with her beads.”

“She was wearing a string of beads?”

“Well, yes—she wore them always. Ever such a pretty blue, with bits of
gold and silver in them. They came from Venice or somewhere. That Lady
Rowena she lived with gave them to her. She thought a lot of them.”

“I suppose she had a coat?”

“Oh yes—a black one.”

“Any hat?”

“Oh no—not to come that little way.”

“But if she had been going any distance, to Melbury or anywhere like
that, would she have worn one then?”

“Why, yes, Mr. Abbott. She didn’t hold with all this going about with
nothing on your head.”

There did not seem to be anything much more to say, but as they made
their way to the front door, Miss Silver remarked on the convenience of
living in a bungalow.

“I expect you are glad to be saved the stairs. In an old house they are
often so steep. Have you water laid on?”

“Well, not company’s water, Miss Silver. Mr. Selby says we couldn’t
expect that really. There’s a very convenient pumping arrangement with a
cistern in the roof. It just has to be pumped every so often, and it
runs from the taps just the same as if we were on the main.”

“Then you haven’t a well?”

Mrs. Selby said, “Oh, no! I shouldn’t fancy drinking water out of a
well—oh, not at all!”

They said good-night and walked away.

When they were at a safe distance Frank Abbott said,

“Did you think they might have a well?”

“It was a possibility. Mrs. Maple has one at the bottom of her garden.”

“How do you know that?”

“Florrie Hunt told me.”

He said, “Do you really think—”

“I do not know. By all accounts Miss Holiday is, or was, a person of
very few ideas, extremely nervous in some directions—she could hardly
enter a house where there was a man—and a good deal taken up with her
own superiority and the fact that she had come down in the world. The
quarrel with the cook at Crewe House may have been more important than
has been admitted. Or, without being of any importance in itself, it may
have weighed on Miss Holiday’s mind. Whilst she was with Mrs. Selby this
weight might have been lifted, only to return more heavily when she came
out by herself into the dark. There could have been an impulse towards
self-destruction. I do not say that there was. It is just one of several
possibilities.”

Frank Abbott said,

“I’ll get the Melbury people on to Mrs. Maple’s well tomorrow.”




                               CHAPTER 19


Rosamond was not at all happy about Jenny. She had it on her mind to
speak to her about Craig Lester’s extraordinary story. He said that he
had seen Jenny out of her bed and getting over a stile across the road
at well after midnight. If he said that, it was true. One part of her
mind believed what he said, but the other part just couldn’t. And every
time she thought about saying to Jenny, “Craig saw you out in the road
last night,” she felt as if she couldn’t bring herself to do it. If
Jenny denied the whole thing point-blank, where did they go from there?
Jenny lying—hardening herself with lie upon lie—and a wall growing up
which neither of them could pass. She had an instinct that it would be
like that, and that nothing would ever be quite the same again. If she
pushed Jenny too far Jenny would lie. She mustn’t push Jenny into lying.
What she must do was to watch and make sure that it didn’t happen again.

At first when they came to Crewe House she had slept in Jenny’s room.
Jenny needed attention in the night. But as soon as she could manage for
herself she had pushed Rosamond out. The room wasn’t really big enough
for two beds. She liked having her own room where she could put on the
light if she wanted to read. She didn’t like anyone else’s dreams
getting all cluttered up with hers. Rosamond began to wonder now how
much of all this nonsense was Jenny wanting to get out of bed and try
her walking all on her own and with no one there to see. One thing was
certain, she couldn’t move back into Jenny’s room now, and she couldn’t
lock her in. She must just make sure that Jenny was asleep before she
put her own light out and be ready to wake at the slightest sound. When
you are anxious you never go right down into the depths. She must just
take care not to go far enough to miss the least, faintest sound from
Jenny’s room next door.

Jenny had a new Gloria Gilmore to read, and remained lost in it all the
evening. It was like being in another world where none of the things
that happened to Jenny Maxwell were real. There was a girl called
Colleen O’Hara, and she was having a series of the most thrilling
affairs with one young man after another, but you knew that in her heart
of hearts she really loved her guardian, who was much too noble to ask
her to be his wife, so he just went about being broken-hearted and
stern, and too marvellously handsome for anything—only of course with a
few grey hairs on his temples because of his secret sorrow. In this
enthralling society Jenny could forget just what she wanted to. The
trouble was that as soon as you came back into your own world it was all
there waiting for you, and no matter how much you kept on saying to
yourself that it was just a dream and none of it had ever happened, you
didn’t really believe it.

Jenny put off saying good-night as long as she could, but in the end
Rosamond stood over her with a cup of hot milk and tucked her up. She
didn’t mind hot milk as a rule, but tonight she put up a fight over it
and drove a bargain. If Rosamond would have some too, then she would
drink hers, but not unless.

“And that’s flat!”

It wasn’t worth struggling about, and Rosamond gave way. She did not see
Jenny slip something into the cup she gave her. She had turned to take
up her own cup, when a plaintive voice from the bed stopped her.

“This cup’s got all the skin on it.”

“Jenny—it’s only cream!”

Jenny sat up in bed, her nose wrinkled with disgust.

“It’s horrible crawling, slimy skin, and I’ll be sick if I drink it! You
give it to me on purpose because you think it’s fattening!

“Oh, Jenny, I don’t!”

“Oh, yes, you do! Change cups with me! I won’t drink this one!”

The exchange made, Jenny drank without further protest. She even flung
her arms round Rosamond’s neck and hugged her when she said good-night.

A quarter of an hour later when Rosamond opened the door and stood on
the threshold listening nothing could have been more satisfactory than
the sound of Jenny’s gentle, regular breathing. She herself felt drowsy
beyond anything she could remember. It was all she could do to keep her
attention on shutting the door noiselessly, opening her window, and
putting out the light. As soon as her head touched the pillow she went
down into depths of sleep.

Jenny had not meant to go to sleep at all. It was Rosamond who was to
sleep while she herself remained awake to carry out her plan. The
gentle, regular breathing to which Rosamond had listened with so much
satisfaction was just an act, and she had very nearly spoilt it by
laughing in the middle. It had been fun to slip one of her
sleeping-tablets into the milk and then get Rosamond to change cups. The
tablet was one which had been left from some that Dr. Graham had
prescribed when she was having all that pain last year and couldn’t
sleep. Rosamond didn’t know that there were any of them left, but she
had come across the box the other day, and there were two of them,
rattling about inside. Rosamond was going to sleep soundly and she was
going to sleep all night.

But Jenny didn’t mean to go to sleep at all. She was going to stay
awake, and when everyone else was asleep she was going to go out.
Because no matter how often she told herself that what had happened last
night was a dream, she couldn’t quite believe it unless she went to the
place again and saw that the thing which had frightened her wasn’t
there.

A thing which had been taken away wouldn’t be there any longer. Not
seeing it tonight wouldn’t mean that it hadn’t been there the night
before. She began to think how funny it was that you should argue one
way and something inside your mind should answer you back. It gave her
the kind of feeling you have when you get out of bed in the dark and you
don’t know where the door is, or the window, or how to get back into bed
again and put your head under the clothes. Everything in her mind began
to drift, until it carried her into a frightening dark place where
someone said, “Well, nobody’s going to miss her,” and somebody shone a
torch upon wet trodden ground. There was an old sack lying there, and a
hand that it didn’t quite cover. She couldn’t see the whole of the hand,
only the three middle fingers, and they were bone-white under the beam
of the torch. She took a gasping breath and cried out, “It’s a
dream—it’s a dream—it’s a dream!” If you say that, you always wake up.
No matter how strong the dream is, it’s bound to let go of you if you
know it is only a dream.

Jenny woke with her heart beating hard and her hands thrown out. It was
a dream—a dream—a dream! And dreams came out of nowhere. She put on
the bedside light and looked at her own little clock which Rosamond had
given her for Christmas. So she must have been asleep for quite a long
time. The curtains were drawn back from the half-open window. She went
over to it and looked out. If there wasn’t a light in the room, it
wouldn’t seem so dark outside. A feeling of adventure came up in her.
She wasn’t sleepy any more. She wanted to be out in the dark, running
down the drive, crossing the road, getting over the stile, right away
from everyone, where she could dance and nobody could see her.

She dressed quickly—a warm skirt, a thick pullover, and the shoes which
she had hardly walked in yet. Rosamond had been afraid that she would
find it difficult to get used to them at first, but she didn’t—not a
bit. Her feet tingled with liking them—they tingled, and wanted to
dance. She opened the door and slipped down the dark passage without a
sound. She had Rosamond’s torch, but she didn’t need to switch it on.
She let herself out of the side door and turned her face to the wind. It
moved softly, and it was full of the smell of growing things. There was
no moon, but it wasn’t dark. She could see the black shapes of the trees
against a luminous sky.

She walked slowly down the drive lest she should displace a stone or
break a dry branch under her feet and be heard by Rosamond or—a much
more dreadful thought—Aunt Lydia. She went slowly. There was no sound,
and no one waked.

Going over the road was like crossing a river. She waded into it and
swam, and climbed out over the stile on the other side and into Mr.
Johnson’s field. There was a footpath close along under the hedge, and
if everyone was asleep, there wouldn’t be anyone to see her if she made
patterns on the ground with the torch and danced to keep them company.

At the corner of the field the path turned away from the road, and two
fields farther on there was another stile coming out upon Vicarage Lane.
Jenny switched off her torch, crouched down by the hedge, and listened.
There wasn’t a sound of anything at all except that soft air moving
overhead. This was where she had had her dream last night. She had
crawled right up to the stile and looked through. And there had been
sounds in the dream—people moving—and the brightness of a torch upon
the sack. She hadn’t really seen what was under the sack. She hadn’t
seen the fingers of a hand. Not last night—oh, no, not last night. It
was only tonight when she was asleep in her bed that the hand had come
into the dream.

And now there wasn’t anything at all. That was what she had come here
for—to know for certain—to see for herself with her very own eyes that
there wasn’t anything here. There hadn’t ever been anything. It had all
been nothing but a dream. That was the worst of having a lot of
imagination. You had to have it, or you couldn’t make up stories that
anyone would want to read. But sometimes the stories made themselves up
and came banging into your mind whether you wanted them there or not.
This had been a horrid one and she hadn’t wanted it at all. She wanted
to push it out and lock the door so that it couldn’t come back.
Something lying on the grass at the edge of Vicarage Lane—something
that was covered with a sack, and a torch shining down on it. It wasn’t
her torch. Two people there in the lane, whispering together. One of
them had a torch, and the beam shone down on the sack—

She made herself get up and put on her torch and look over the stile.
There wasn’t anybody there. There hadn’t ever been anybody there. She
made herself get over the stile and walk along the grass edge. Mrs.
Maple’s cottage was behind her on the other side of the lane. It looked
like a dark hump breaking the line of the hedge. The Selbys’ bungalow
was before her at the end of the lane. After that there was only a
footpath. She sent the beam of the torch along the grass to make a
little light path for her feet. She walked on this path right up to the
Selbys’ gate, and then she turned and went back. There wasn’t anything
lying at the edge of the lane. There wasn’t anything to dream about any
more. She could go home and get into bed and sleep. She set the round
light at the end of the beam skipping and dancing. Everything inside her
felt light and happy.

She had almost reached the stile when the dancing light picked up a
golden spark. It was like a little gold point pricking up through the
pale moony beam. It was there, and it was gone again. She flicked the
light to and fro, but she couldn’t find it. She tried again, and she saw
part of a little round thing like the half of an orange, or an apple, or
the moon before it is full. Only much, much smaller. Just a little round
thing pushed down into the grass and the mud at the side of the lane—a
little thing no bigger than her thumbnail. She wanted to leave it lying
there and get over the stile and run all the way home, but something
wouldn’t let her.

She stooped down and picked it up. There was mud on it, but it wasn’t
broken. It was a round glass bead, the colour dim in the light of the
torch, but she knew very well that it was a bright sky blue and that
there were little flakes of gold and silver mixed with the glass. It was
one of the gold flakes which had been caught in the beam like a spark.
It was dull and dirty now in the palm of her hand, but she had seen it
too often not to know what it would look like if it was clean. She had
been seeing it for more than two years, day in, day out, with a lot more
like it on a string round Miss Holiday’s neck.




                               CHAPTER 20


Florrie was a quarter of an hour late with the early morning tea next
day. She brought it in with the air of one who serves a funeral feast
and said,

“If it’s Mrs. Maple’s well, she never done it herself.”

Mrs. Merridew was awake but not so much awake as not to find this both
startling and enigmatical. As the curtains went rattling back, she
blinked at the light and said,

“Mrs. Maple’s well? What do you mean, Florrie?”

It was at this point that Miss Silver came in through the door which
Florrie had left open behind her. She wore her blue dressing-gown and
the black slippers with the blue pompons, and, as always, she was
immaculately neat. Her slight murmur of apology was lost in Florrie’s
loud repetition.

“If it’s Mrs. Maple’s well, she never done it. That’s what I’ve said,
and that’s what I’ll hold to, Melbury police, or London police, or
anyone. She’d as soon have flown over the moon, and you can’t get me
from it.”

Miss Silver had the advantage of Mrs. Merridew. In the light of last
night’s conversation with Frank Abbott, she was able to clarify
Florrie’s remark.

“Mrs. Maple’s well is being investigated by the police?”

Florrie gave a jerky nod.

“That’s what I said. And she never done it.”

Mrs. Merridew was sitting up in bed. She reached under her pillow for
the old fleecy shawl which had served her for so many years and survived
so many washings that it was now the colour of old ivory. She said in a
horrified voice.

“Oh, surely no one could suspect Mrs. Maple!”

Florrie said angrily,

“There’s no knowing what the police will say! But it was Miss Holiday I
had in my mind. If she went down that well, it wouldn’t be because she
threw herself in—no one’s going to make me believe that! She may be
there, or she may not, poor thing, but she won’t be there without
someone put her there—and I’m not saying who that someone might be. And
I’d like to know what good the police are! They didn’t find poor Maggie,
did they? All they could say was she’d run off to London—and anyone
that knew her could tell them different to that! And as likely as not,
they’ll be saying the same about poor Miss Holiday. What would Maggie go
to London for? I say she never, nor Miss Holiday neither! And when they
find her murdered somewhere, maybe they’ll believe me!” She marched out
of the room and shut the door with something that was very nearly a
bang.

Mrs. Merridew was arranging the shawl about her shoulders. When she had
finished doing this she picked up her cup of tea and said in an agitated
manner,

“You don’t really think that poor thing—oh dear, I never did like
wells! Maud, you don’t suppose—”

Miss Silver said with composure,

“We have no grounds for supposition at present. If there is a well in
Mrs. Maple’s garden, the police would, I think, feel obliged to
investigate it.”

Mrs. Merridew sipped from her cup. There were tears in her eyes, and the
tea was certainly not hot enough to account for them. She said,

“Oh dear!”

The two ladies were both dressed and downstairs, when Frank Abbott
walked up the path to the front door and used the knocker. Miss Silver,
meeting him on the threshold, took it upon herself to conduct him into
the drawing-room, Mrs. Merridew being already in the dining-room and
about to make the tea. As he shut the door behind them Frank said,

“Well, she was there all right.”

Miss Silver made no comment. She looked gravely at him and waited for
more. He continued.

“There is an injury to the head, but it could have been done as she
fell. The post-mortem will show whether she went into the water alive.
On the face of it, I should say she did, because either it was suicide,
or it was murder, the only point in putting her there would be to make
it look as if it was suicide. I don’t know how it seems to you, and we
should not, of course, be too much prejudiced by the fact that we were
sent down here to look out for anything fishy that was going on, but I
do get the impression that there is a whole lot more in this than meets
the eye. Two women of no importance disappear—dull elderly people
without sentimental entanglements. Nobody could possibly be supposed to
want either of them out of the way. Yet Maggie Bell has never been
traced, and Miss Holiday turns up at the bottom of a well. I don’t know
about you, but I get the feeling that what we’re looking at is just a
few of the bits out of a jigsaw puzzle. They don’t make sense on their
own, but if we had the rest of the pieces they might add up to quite a
picture.”

Still with that grave look fixed upon her face, Miss Silver said,

“Not a very pretty one, I am afraid.”

He went away, and Miss Silver joined Mrs. Merridew at the breakfast
table.

Later on when the meal was over and Florrie had cleared it away Miss
Silver followed her to the kitchen. She had been waiting for just such
an opportunity, and it seemed to her that the time for it had now
arrived. Mrs. Merridew had settled down to write a letter, and Florrie
would be occupied in washing up the breakfast things.

It cannot be said that she was in an approachable mood. After her
outburst of the early morning she had retreated into rather more than
her customary reserve. To Miss Silver’s offer of drying whilst she
washed there was a very cold response. She could do her work, she was
glad to say, and no one had ever said she couldn’t. Whether it was the
sincerity of Miss Silver’s “But I should like to help you, Florrie,” or
the smile that went with it, there is no means of knowing, but she made
no further protest when a wet cup and saucer were lifted from the
draining-board, meticulously dried, and set aside for her to put away.
Both the smile and the desire to help were completely genuine, and had
won more confidences than can be counted.

It was not until Miss Silver was drying the last plate that she said,

“I wonder, Florrie, whether you would tell me a little more about your
cousin Maggie Bell.”

Florrie jerked a shoulder.

“There’s nothing more to tell.”

She met a grave, steady look and turned from it.

“I don’t know what you think there is to tell.”

Miss Silver said,

“I am not asking from curiosity—I think you know that. But I would be
glad to check over one or two points with you. Maggie went every day to
the Cunninghams?”

Florrie looked sideways. No harm in answering that. She said,

“Yes.”

“What time did she leave?”

“That would depend. Mostly she would get away by half past two.”

“Do you know what time she got away on the day she disappeared?”

There was rather a noticeable pause before the answer came.

“It would be the same as usual.”

“Did she go straight home?”

“Mrs. Bell said she was in before three.”

“What did she do after she came in?”

Florrie emptied the washing-up bowl with a swish.

“How do I know what she did? There was always plenty to do—her mother
saw to that. Maggie hadn’t any time to have idle hands. There’d be the
tea to get, and after she’d washed up she would get on with her
ironing.”

“You say that she would sometimes come down to you in the evening. Was
that one of the evenings you were expecting her?”

“What if it was?”

Miss Silver’s look was kind but searching.

“Was it?”

“It might have been.”

Rightly interpreting this as an affirmative, Miss Silver repeated it in
a more definite form.

“You were expecting her. But she did not come.”

Florrie’s face twitched painfully.

“No, she never.”

“What time did you expect her?”

She turned the washing-bowl over and spread the dishcloth on it to dry.

“Eight o’clock it would be, unless she was kept.”

“Do you know when she actually left her parents’ house?”

“Eight o’clock was what my aunt said.”

Miss Silver said in a meditative tone,

“She left at eight to come to you. It would be quite dark. Can you
remember at all what sort of a night it was—whether there was a moon?”

Florrie shook her head.

“It was a dark night and a drizzle of rain.”

Miss Silver said,

“Florrie, was there anyone who knew that Maggie would be coming in to
see you that evening?”

Florrie turned from the sink with an abrupt movement.

“She’d come when she could.”

“I asked you if anyone knew that Maggie would be coming to see you.”

“Most things get known in a village. Maggie’s father and mother would
know, but they wouldn’t talk about it. They didn’t like her to come and
see me—she’d have to pretend she was slipping out for a breath of air.
But they’d know all right.”

“Florrie, did anyone else know?”

She turned a haggard face.

“I’m not saying who knew, or who didn’t know. There’s been too much said
already, and I’m not putting anything to it. And that’s my last word.”

Miss Silver said, “Thank you, Florrie,” in a very thoughtful voice.




                               CHAPTER 21


Walking with Mrs. Merridew that afternoon, Miss Silver saw Miss
Cunningham turn out of the drive of Crewe House. She was swathed in her
usual quota of scarves, one of which she held closely muffled up about
her in a manner to suggest that she might be suffering from toothache.
To Mrs. Merridew’s solicitous enquiries, however, she replied that there
was nothing the matter, thank you—oh, no, nothing at all—it was just
that the wind was chilly, and that a warm scarf was always comfortable.
As she went on her way, Mrs. Merridew said in a mildly indignant tone,

“I suppose Lydia has been bullying her again. Poor Lucy, I can’t think
why she puts up with it.”

Lucy Cunningham sometimes wondered herself. But it isn’t easy to break
an old yoke. Lydia Crewe had dominated her for thirty years, and when
you have put up with something for thirty years it isn’t easy to rebel.
She went home and occupied herself with her usual tasks. There were the
hens to be fed, and since Mrs. Hubbard who had succeeded Maggie Bell was
gone by half past two, there was Henry’s tea to get and the things to be
washed up afterwards.

Henry was late. He was very often late, but of course, with his tastes,
that was to be expected. You can’t tramp about looking for things like
chrysalises and hibernating dormice and get home punctually for your
meals, and it was no good anyone expecting it. If she sometimes felt a
little ruffled, she had only to remind herself of the years when she
hadn’t known whether Henry was alive or dead to feel an instant remorse.
Of course, after such a long time you couldn’t expect things to be just
the same as they used to be. To be sure, Lydia wasn’t so young even
then, and she herself was rising thirty, but when you looked back on it
across all those years thirty did seem quite young. And Henry had been
only twenty-five. Rather sweet too, with that sudden smile he had when
things went right, and the way he turned to you for help when they went
wrong. He had changed a lot—people did in twenty-five years. Henry
Cunningham had come back but not the boy that he had been. He had lost
the quick bright smile and the habit of turning to her for help. He
wasn’t interested in people any more. A new kind of spider or a moth
with different markings on its wings, a butterfly that was common in
Belgium but which hadn’t been seen over here for fifteen years—these
were the things which brought some of the old light to his eyes, the old
zest to his manner. But as far as human beings were concerned, he lived
in the house with them, or he met them when he went out, but they didn’t
matter any more.

Even Nicholas didn’t matter. And in some ways Nicholas was so like what
Henry had been. He was lighter-hearted, and he had more to say for
himself, but there were ways of moving, speaking, looking, that brought
Henry back again as he used to be before that dreadful wicked rumour
drove him away.

She got the tea, and Henry was later than usual. He was in one of his
most abstracted moods too, and hardly spoke except to ask her to pass
the scones or to fill his cup again.

When the meal was over and cleared away she put on the wireless and sat
down to darn the socks which both he and Nicholas continually wore into
holes. There was quite a pile of them, and the old tweed jacket which
Nicholas would go on wearing though it was getting quite past it.
However, this time the hole was only in the lining of the pocket. She
would have to put in a good strong patch. As she moved the coat,
something rustled under her hand. No, that was too strong a word. There
really wasn’t any sound, but she could just feel something down by the
hem between the cloth and the lining. Well, with a hole like that in the
pocket—

She fished out a crumpled piece of paper. There was writing on one side
of it, but she didn’t look at it—she wouldn’t do a thing like that. She
folded it over so that the writing didn’t show and put it aside to give
to Nicholas when he came home.

He rushed in at something after six, very gay, very lively, and in his
usual hurry. He didn’t want anything to eat or drink, and he wouldn’t be
back until late because he had a date in Melbury and no more than just
enough time to change and make it. He threw her a kiss as he went out,
and the front door slammed on him. She wondered who he was going to
meet. Not Rosamond, or he wouldn’t have said he had got a date in
Melbury. Or would he? If it was Rosamond, they would be meeting at the
bus and going out together. She hoped very much that it was Rosamond,
but she didn’t think it could be. Rosamond wouldn’t like to leave Jenny
for so long. And that meant it might be simply anyone, because any girl
would be only too glad to go out with Nicholas. Her thoughts dwelt on
him fondly.

He hadn’t come in when she went up to bed at half past ten, but then she
didn’t expect him as early as that. He had a key, and she had reminded
Henry not to bolt the door. She was tired and quite ready for her bed.
It occurred to her in rather a vague, wandering manner that you wouldn’t
really be able to bear it if you had just to go on all the time. There
was a hymn they used to sing when she was a child about “those endless
Sabbaths the blessed ones see”. The idea of any day, let alone a Sunday,
going on for ever and ever appalled her. Even in early youth she had
found it very depressing, and now it simply didn’t bear thinking about.
She felt a sincere gratitude for the fact that she could still sleep.

But on this particular night she woke, coming up out of the pit of sleep
with a ringing sound in her ears and blinking at the dark. After a
moment she could see the window. The ringing was still going on, and
this time she knew that it was the telephone down in the hall. When Papa
had bought the Dower House and they had moved in all those years ago he
had had the telephone put in the hall, and there it had remained ever
since. It was, of course, the most inconvenient of all possible places.
You stood in an icy draught, and everyone could hear what you said.

Lucy Cunningham blinked the sleep from her eyes and switched on the
light beside her bed. The clock that ticked there informed her that it
was three o’clock in the morning. A sense of calamity swept over her. No
one would ring you up at such an hour unless something dreadful had
happened—no one. Without waiting to put anything on she ran out as she
was, barefoot and in her night-dress. The bell was ringing down in the
hall, unnaturally loud, unnaturally insistent. There was enough light
from her open door to mark the top of the stair. Without waiting for
anything more she began to run down the long steep flight.

If her hand had not been tense on the balustrade, she couldn’t have
saved herself. Everything about her was tense. Her hand closed
spasmodically. The cord which left a raw mark four inches above her
right ankle tripped her with so much violence that but for that
unnatural grip she must have pitched down onto the old flagstones of the
hall below. The cord cut her, her body took a sickening lurch forward,
but the right hand held and the left hand joined it. She found herself
standing about six steps down and shaking from head to foot. The
telephone bell was ringing.

The noise made it difficult to think. She groped, and got hold of a
word—light. As soon as she was able she turned herself, still holding
to the baluster. She went up step by step to the landing and put on the
light. Then she went back to the head of the stair and looked down. She
had been right about the number of the steps—she had gone down six of
them. From the balustrade by that sixth step on the one side to the
balustrade on the other a taut line of cord spanned the stair. As soon
as she saw it she knew what it was, a length of the garden twine she
used for tying her roses. It was the strong tarred kind. It hardly
showed at all against the dark carpet and the dark polished treads. If
it had been new, she would have smelt the tar, but it was all of two
years since she had bought any.

The telephone bell had stopped ringing. She went back into her room,
fetched a pair of scissors and descended the stair as far as the sixth
step. She was shaking all over, but she made herself do it. The twine
was very securely fastened. When she had cut it through she gathered up
the bits and took them into her own room to burn them. She cleaned the
scissors, carefully and put them away. Then, and not until then, she
went across the landing and opened Henry’s door. The room was dark and
the window wide. There was the smell of a man’s room—tobacco and
boot-polish. There was the sound of Henry Cunningham’s deep and regular
breathing. She stood and listened to it for a while. Then she stepped
back and shut the door again.

Nicholas had the room beyond, at the back of the house. She stood in
front of it, her mind full of dreadful irrational prayers—“Don’t let it
be Nicholas! Oh, God, don’t let it be Nicholas! He couldn’t! He
_couldn’t_! If he was in Melbury, it couldn’t be Nicholas! Let him be in
Melbury! Don’t let him be here!” She put her hand on the door knob and
turned it. The room was dark, the window stood wide. There was the sound
of deep, quiet breathing.

Lucy Cunningham shut the door and went back to her room. Her mind was
dreadfully clear. She had come up to bed at half past ten. The stairs
were safe then. At some later time Henry had come up. Nicholas had come
up. One of them had stopped at the sixth step and stretched the cord
above it. One of them? They might have come up separately, or they might
have come up together. Or the one who had come up first might have gone
down again to do what had to be done. Henry, or Nicholas—Nicholas or
Henry. There was no one else in the house. One of them had tied the cord
which was to trip her to her death. The stair was steep, and the hall
was paved with stone. She would be hurrying blindly, and she would fall
to her death.

But who wanted her dead? Henry or Nicholas—Nicholas or Henry?

The words went round and round in her head until the morning.




                               CHAPTER 22


Mrs. Hubbard would not arrive until eight o’clock, and since Nicholas
must be got down to his breakfast by then, Miss Cunningham could not
allow herself the indulgence of a cup of tea in bed. She had to wake
Nicholas, hurry into her clothes, open the back door, and cook whatever
they had been able to contrive for the meal—fish, or sausage, or the
occasional egg. On this Tuesday morning Lucy Cunningham had plenty of
time. It was a relief to leave the bed which had afforded her no rest.
The water was still hot from the night before. She washed her face in
it, and then sponged it repeatedly with cold water from her bedroom jug.
The nights went near to frost, and the water was icy. When she came to
do her hair, the image in the glass had a less ghastly look. She never
had much colour, and a round face does not go haggard in a night. She
put on the old grey tweed skirt and the grey jumper and cardigan and
went across the landing to bang on Nicholas’s door. He always took some
waking, but the sleepy voice that answered her in the end was no
different from what it had been for all the years she had come to his
door and knocked like this.

She went to the head of the stairs and looked down. The cord had marked
the balustrade, but no one else would notice a stray mark on the old
paint. It had been tied very tightly, and it had had to take her weight
when she stumbled. Oak would not have marked, but the balustrade was
made of a softer wood. It had dented where the cord had pulled on it.
She could see the dent every time she went up and down the stairs. She
went down now to unlock the back door and get Nicholas’s breakfast.

There was no need for her to go and wake Henry. He had views about
sleep, and considered it injurious to interfere with what should be a
natural process. If you had had enough sleep you woke up. If you had not
had enough, it was harmful to be roused. It was, of course, extremely
inconvenient never to know when he would want his breakfast, but when
you had a man in the house you had to put up with things like that. Papa
had had views about early rising, and as long as he lived they had
breakfasted at seven. Lucy Cunningham had been brought up on the famous
adage, “Early to bed and early to rise, Makes a man healthy, and
wealthy, and wise.” She had never been able to make up her mind which
part of it she disliked most, getting up at half past six or going to
bed at nine, at which hour the electric light had been turned off at the
meter and the family restricted to candles in their bedrooms. Henry, of
course, did not mind whether the lights were on all night or not—but
then he did not pay the bill.

There were a couple of sausages left from supper. She heated them on the
small oil stove, since the fire was out and would be left for Mrs.
Hubbard to see to. Meanwhile she took the milk and the butter out of the
larder and across the hall to the dining-room. Everything else was there
already, since she always laid the table before going up to bed. She
stood now and checked the things over just to make sure that nothing had
been forgotten. Two packets of cereal—Henry sometimes liked the kind
that always reminded her of little straw mattresses, but Nicholas
wouldn’t touch it. Brown sugar, marmalade, a fresh pot of mustard. Oh,
the bread—

As she was bringing it through the hall, Nicholas came running down the
stairs. Her heart jerked. He came running down without a glance at the
sixth or any other step. She felt such a rush of relief that the
bread-board tilted and the loaf began to slide. The knife fell
clattering.

Nicholas caught her about the shoulders.

“Hold up, Lu! What are you doing? Are you all right?”

“Oh, yes.”

He laughed and bent to pick up the knife.

“Well, don’t go throwing things about! Here, you’d better let me have
that bread. I really like it better when it hasn’t been on the floor.”

She turned back to fetch his sausage, whilst he went on. When she came
into the dining-room he gave her a laughing, affectionate glance.

“You know, you do look a bit wonky. You weren’t by any chance sitting up
to watch for the wanderer’s return, were you? I’m the one who ought to
be looking pale, not you.”

She had not meant to speak, but everything in her was shaking. The words
came of themselves.

“Were you very late?”

He was tipping wheatflakes into a soup-plate and pouring milk on them.

“Oh, fairly. I got a lift, so I didn’t have to depend on the bus. Did
you hear me come in?”

“No.”

“Well, I’ve got to hurry now—I was very nearly late yesterday. Old
Burlington has got a complex about punctuality. And he doesn’t care for
me much. There’s nothing he’d like better than to catch me out.”

“Why doesn’t he like you?”

“Odd, isn’t it? Darling, pour me out a cup of tea. He thinks I’m
frivolous. Not one of our blither spirits!”

When she had poured out his tea she went away and came back again. There
was a crumpled piece of paper in her hand. He looked at it across his
cup.

“Where did you get that?”

“There was a hole in the pocket of your brown tweed jacket. It had
slipped down between the stuff and the lining. I found it last night
when I was mending the pocket.”

He put out his hand for it and took it.

“Thanks, Lu.”

He was still smiling, but there was something—some change. It was as if
the temperature had suddenly dropped whilst the sun was shining, a thing
quite apt to happen in an English spring. Lucy Cunningham had a
bewildered sense of there being something wrong, but she had no idea
what it might be.

Nicholas put the paper into an inner pocket, gulped down the rest of his
tea, and was off in a hurry. But when she went out into the kitchen it
was not quite half past eight. He really had plenty of time.

Mrs. Hubbard was busy lighting the fire, which was being contrary.
Presently she would help Miss Cunningham with the beds, but at the
moment she wanted the kitchen to herself. Anyone would think something
had got into the range this morning. Three times she had lighted the
dratted thing and it had gone out. If Miss Cunningham would take and go
away, there was a mite of paraffin in the scullery that nobody was going
to miss.

There are ways of letting people know when they are not wanted. It came
home to Lucy Cunningham that Mrs. Hubbard would prefer her room to her
company. She went through into the drawing-room and began to straighten
the chairs and tidy up, a thing she could never do the night before
because of Henry sitting up late and not liking to be disturbed. She had
just finished, when she heard him come out of his room. She had left the
door open, and by moving a very little she could see as well as hear. He
had a slow, heavy tread. It was no slower or heavier than usual. He came
across the landing with an abstracted air and on down the stairs without
looking to right or left. When she came out to meet him in the hall he
took no other notice than to say, “I’m down,” after which he proceeded
into the dining-room, leaving the door ajar behind him.

All the time she was getting his hot plate and the sausage she had been
keeping warm the thoughts in her head went round and round—Henry or
Nicholas—Nicholas or Henry. She had watched them both come down the
stairs, and neither of them had so much as glanced at the step where she
had stumbled, or at the balustrade where the trip-cord had been
stretched. Nicholas had come down in his usual rush, and Henry in his
own deliberate way. Neither of them had done anything at all that was
different from what she had seen them do year in, year out all the time
that they had been together—Nicholas tearing down as a schoolboy,
Henry, young and in love with Lydia Crewe, moving as if he had come only
half way out of a dream. It might have been any day as long ago as that
or in the years between.

But if either of them had fastened that cord to trip her to her death,
he wouldn’t have left it there to be found in the morning. There must
have been some time in the night when one of them had come to the top of
the stair and looked over. But the cord would not have been there for
him to see, because she had taken it away and burned it in her bedroom
grate. So then whoever it was would have turned round and gone back to
his bed again.

She had not closed her bedroom door. She did not think that she had
slept. Could a man move so silently that she would not hear him? She
looked back over the hours of the night, and she wasn’t sure. There were
stretches of time which were like some dreadful dream. She couldn’t be
sure whether the dream had crossed the boundaries of sleep or only
trembled on the edge.

She took Henry his sausage, and found him reading the paper and dawdling
over a brown mess of cereal.




                               CHAPTER 23


Making the beds with Miss Cunningham, Mrs. Hubbard was perfectly well
aware that she was not in her usual. Under an appearance of great
neatness and restraint she herself was one of the most inquisitive women
in Hazel Green. She had a nose for a secret comparable only to that of a
ferret on the trail, but all very quietly, very decorously, and the
prize when attained to be shared only with the chosen few and under
pledge of secrecy. When Miss Cunningham took the side of the bed which
enabled her to keep her back to the windows, she was at once aware that
this had been done in order to conceal the fact that she had been crying
and that she had passed a wakeful night.

When brushing down the stairs she did not fail to observe a slight
flattening at the edges of two of the balusters. It was an old
staircase, but at some time it had been painted. Where the flattening
had occurred the paint on at least one edge had flaked away. It was
perfectly plain to Mrs. Hubbard that something tight had been tied round
the baluster. Now what would anyone want to do that for? And blessed if
there wasn’t just such another mark on the far side of the step. The
stairs ran down without a break, the balusters on either side. You
couldn’t get from it but that someone had stretched a cord across the
stairs—as nasty and spiteful a trick as she had ever heard of. Must
have been some boy. There were those she could name that wouldn’t think
twice of breaking anyone’s leg if they were up to a lark, but how in the
world would a boy get in to play off one of his jokes on Miss
Cunningham, or why would he want to? There wasn’t anyone with what you
could call a spite against her, not that she knew about—and there
wasn’t much that she didn’t know.

When she had finished the stairs she took her dustpan and brush round
the hall, and right underneath where that mark was on the baluster the
brush picked up a little curly piece of twine—some of that black garden
stuff that gets used for tying up creepers and such. She put it in the
pocket of her overall and went up to Miss Cunningham’s bedroom. There
had been no fire in the grate, but something had been burned there. When
she picked up the piece of tarred twine it came to her that there had
been ash in the bedroom grate, and she hadn’t to look at it twice before
she could see what it was before it come to that—twine, same as the
piece she’d got in her pocket. There was a bit with the very shape of it
in the grey ash, and when she raked the stuff over there was a knot that
hadn’t burned at all. Mrs. Hubbard put it in her pocket with the bit she
had picked up in the hall. It was altogether past her to think of any
reason why Miss Cunningham should have cut the twine from the baluster
and burned it, but that was what she had done. She had cut it—you could
see the mark of the scissors close up by the knot—and she had burned it
in her bedroom grate.

All the time that she was doing her work, Mrs. Hubbard kept on putting
two and two together. The trouble was she couldn’t get them to make
anything, and it was pain and grief to her. It wasn’t until she was
going away at half past two that she noticed something which excited her
curiosity to a really passionate degree. Miss Cunningham had come out
onto the back-door step to ask her whether they needed another packet of
Vim. It had been a grey morning, but the sun was out now. It slanted in
across the step and across Miss Cunningham’s ankles. There hadn’t been
anything to notice in the house, which was dark enough like a lot of
these old houses were, but out here with the sun right on it, you just
couldn’t help noticing the weal. Just about six inches up from the right
ankle it was, and so red the stocking didn’t hide it, not out here in
the light. With the sideways look which took in a great deal more than
it seemed to, Mrs. Hubbard decided that there was quite a piece of
swelling too. She didn’t risk more than the one glance, and it was in
her usual rather mousy little voice that she replied to the question
about the Vim that they didn’t really want it till next week, but no
harm if Miss Cunningham was putting her order in.

Mr. Hubbard worked in Melbury. He took a wrapped lunch with him which he
supplemented at the canteen. It was therefore nothing to anyone if Mrs.
Hubbard liked to drop in on Florrie Hunt at the White Cottage. There was
a faint faraway connection between them, and Florrie would be pleased
enough to give her a cup of tea, and perhaps the latest about the
finding of poor Miss Holiday’s body. The White Cottage being right at
the corner of Vicarage Lane, there couldn’t be anything either coming or
going but what Florrie would be bound to notice it.

She got her cup of tea, but she didn’t get such a very warm welcome.
Florrie was in one of her moods—she could see that at a glance. Put her
in mind of a house with all the blinds down and the people away. Nothing
but a yes or no out of her, and not at all easy to get either. She
handed up her cup to be filled a second time and began to tell Florrie
about the marks on the balusters at the Dower House and the weal on Miss
Cunningham’s leg. By the time she had come to the end of her story
Florrie was looking at her for the first time.

“Sounds like nonsense to me,” she said.

Mrs. Hubbard sipped her tea.

“Well then, it wasn’t,” she said. “Plain as plain the marks were. And
the bit of string in the hall—what would anyone be doing with that
nasty tarred-stuff indoors? And more of it burned in the bedroom grate.
Just look here if you don’t believe me!”

She had to put the cup down and slip a hand under her coat to bring out
the little curl of twine and the knot which had survived the fire.

Florrie stared at them and said bluntly,

“Seems to me you’re hinting at something, Annie.”

Mrs. Hubbard lowered her eyes.

“I wouldn’t be one to do that.”

“Well, I don’t know what else you’d call it. And if you’re hinting that
there was a string tied across those stairs to trip Miss Cunningham when
she came down, well, who is supposed to have put it there?”

Mrs. Hubbard sipped her tea.

“It’s not for me to say. I’m not one to gossip, and that you know.”

The conversation wasn’t turning out at all as she had hoped. When
Florrie was in that sort of mood she could be right down disagreeable,
and no good trying to get anything out of her. She finished her cup and
said she must be getting along.

It wasn’t until she was half way home that she remembered she had left
the knot and the bit of twine behind her. Not worth going back for of
course. She wouldn’t have shown them to anyone except Florrie. The job
at Miss Cunningham’s suited her, and she wouldn’t want it to get about
that she’d been talking. Which she wouldn’t do, only to Florrie. And
Florrie was safe enough. Why, she could hardly get a word out of her
herself.

Miss Silver came out to the kitchen with the coffee-tray. Mrs. Merridew
had just dropped off behind the morning paper, an after-lunch practice
in which Miss Silver had never allowed herself to indulge. A sad waste
of time, and a habit which was apt to grow. She carried the tray down
the passage, and as she approached the door she became aware of voices
on the other side of it. She had no intention of listening, but they
forced themselves upon her ear. It all happened quite naturally. She had
paused when she realized that Florrie was not alone, and the door in
front of her was ajar. She heard Florrie say in her deep, harsh voice,
“If you’re hinting there was a string tied across those stairs to trip
Miss Cunningham when she came down, well, who is supposed to have put it
there?”

Miss Silver stood where she was. As a private gentlewoman she would not
have dreamed of listening to a conversation not intended for her ears.
As a private detective she had not infrequently considered it her duty
to do so. She stood quite still, holding the tray, and heard Mrs.
Hubbard turn the question aside and say that she must be getting along.
When the back door had closed upon her, Miss Silver retired down the
passage, and then returned, her footsteps rather more evident than
usual. Arrived at the kitchen door, she said, “May I come in Florrie?”
and pushed it with the tray.

It was not until then that Florrie started and turned round. She had
been standing at the kitchen table and staring down at it, too much
immersed in her thoughts until the tray knocked against the door.

Miss Silver came into the room and set it down upon the table. As she
did so she saw that what Florrie had been staring at was a little curl
of tarred twine and a knot. The knot had been tightly tied and
afterwards cut away. Across the coffee-tray with its two empty cups Miss
Silver looked at Florrie Hunt, and Florrie looked back. It was an angry,
puzzled look, but behind the puzzle and the anger there was fear. When
Miss Silver said, “What is it?” Florrie answered in a lost voice,

“I don’t know—”

“It would be better if you would tell me.”

There was a slow shake of the head. Miss Silver leaned across and
touched the curl of twine. She said,

“When I came down the passage the door was ajar, and I heard what you
said. It was something about a string tied across the stairs to trip
Miss Cunningham. You had a visitor, and you asked her who was supposed
to have put it there.”

Florrie spoke angrily.

“She hadn’t got nothing to say!”

Miss Silver gave a slight corrective cough.

“I noticed that she did not say anything. May I ask who there was in the
house who could have done such a thing?”

Florrie tossed her head.

“No one that I can see! There would be her, and Mr. Henry, and Mr.
Nicholas. Well, it stands to reason she wouldn’t do it herself, and that
leaves Mr. Nicholas and Mr. Henry. Well, I ask you! Annie Hubbard’s got
little enough to think of, coming round here with a story like that!”

She got a brightly interrogative glance.

“She works at the Dower House?”

“Took on the job after Maggie went.”

“And what, do you suppose, put this story into her head?”

Mrs. Hubbard’s story about the marks on the balusters and finding the
pieces of twine just underneath in the hall and the knot upstairs in
Miss Cunningham’s grate along with what looked like the burnt remains of
a longer piece, was retailed in what began by being a scornful voice.
But somehow by the time Florrie had come to the weal on Miss
Cunningham’s leg the scorn had gone out of it and something like fear
had taken its place. The last words dragged and were followed in a rush
by a scared,

“Who’d do a thing like that? I put it to Annie Hubbard, and you could
hear for yourself she hadn’t got nothing to say.”

Miss Silver said in a meditative tone,

“There was no one else in the house except the two Mr. Cunninghams?”

“Not without someone come round visiting, and then one of the family
would have had to let them in.”

Miss Silver said,

“Yes—I suppose so—”

She went through to the drawing-room and sat down with her knitting.
Little Josephine’s cherry-coloured hood was now finished, and she had
embarked upon leggings to match. She was not anxious to pursue the
subject of the accident which Miss Cunningham had so narrowly escaped.
She wished to be able to give it some quiet reflection. If anyone had
intended to injure Lucy Cunningham by fastening a trip-cord across the
stairs, what would be the most likely time to carry it out? It would
surely only be attempted when the normal comings and goings had ceased
and everyone had gone upstairs for the night. Lucy Cunningham—her
brother Henry—her nephew Nicholas—

When the trip-cord had been fixed, there would have to be some device to
bring the intended victim from her room, and in so much of a hurry that
she would not notice the cord until too late. A black cord on a dark
stair, and a woman hurrying down. Why? The thought of the telephone-bell
presented itself in a very convincing manner. There is no sound more
startling in the middle of the night. Yet how ensure that the
telephone-bell would ring? To employ an accomplice would be extremely
dangerous. There came to her memory a sound very familiar in her own
flat, the ringing of the bell on the alarm clock. Heard from any other
room except her bedroom it was indistinguishable from the sound of the
telephone-bell. If anyone had wished to startle Miss Cunningham into
running downstairs in the middle of the night, how easy to set the alarm
at any of the hours past midnight and leave the clock in the hall,
whence it could be retrieved before anyone observed it. It occurred to
Miss Silver, and not for the first time, that all the things that had
happened and were happening in Hazel Green had some association with
Crewe House and the neighbouring Dower House, and that the occupants of
these two houses were intimately connected. Furthermore, if two crimes
had indeed been carried out and a third was being attempted, there was
certain economy of method calculated to arouse no suspicion and leave no
trace. This would imply a criminal of no ordinary capacity, quick to
decide upon a plan and ruthless in carrying it out.

When Mrs. Merridew awoke from her nap Miss Silver was ready to suggest
that it would be pleasant to take the air. A remark as to her interest
in old houses, coupled with the mention of Miss Cunningham’s name,
produced some information with regard to the Dower House, followed by
the remark that,

“Of course Lucy knows far more about it than I do. I am sure she would
be only too pleased to show you the house. The Cunninghams are quite
recent comers, but you know the saying about being more royalist than
the king—well, it’s like that with Lucy. She has all the stories, by
heart, and there’s nothing she likes better than repeating them. We can
call on her this afternoon if you would care to do so.”




                               CHAPTER 24


When Frank Abbott dropped in after supper that evening he was struck
with the gravity of Miss Silver’s expression. He had come to tell her
the result of the post-mortem on Miss Holiday. They sat in the
dining-room, and she gave him her usual strict attention whilst her busy
needles clicked and little Josephine’s legging lengthened.

“Well,” he began, “she was alive when she got that bump on the head, and
she was alive when she went into the water, but no one is going to swear
that she didn’t hit her head on the side of the well as she went down.
It could have been that way, you know, though I’ll give you this—the
police surgeon doesn’t think it was. He is inclined to believe that
there may have been an earlier bruise.”

“Were there any signs of a struggle?”

He paused for a moment before answering this.

“Not as far as any damage to her clothes went. But you will remember
that Mrs. Selby said she was wearing a string of blue beads—”

“Yes, Frank.”

“Well, when we got her up out of the well it looked as if the string was
missing, but afterwards at the mortuary it was discovered that two or
three of the beads had run down inside her clothes and been caught
there, which looks as if the string had broken when she was attacked.”

“That could well have happened. And quite compatible with a theory that
she may have been stunned by an initial blow but not put down the well
until later. You seemed to suggest this as a possibility.”

“Something like that.”

She pulled on her ball of wool.

“It is what I would expect. She must have been attacked in the short
distance between the Selbys’ bungalow and the cottage. But it would be
unlikely that the person or persons who attacked her would have taken
the risk of carrying the body to the bottom of Mrs. Maple’s garden at an
hour when she might still be supposed to be about. Florrie informs me
that her bedroom looks to the back of the house, and though she is too
deaf to have heard footsteps in the garden, she would certainly be able
to perceive the transport of an inanimate body if she had happened to be
looking out of her window at the time.”

Frank nodded.

“People do look out of the window the last thing.”

“It is an extremely common practice. I do not think that a murderer’s
guilty conscience would have allowed him to take the risk. He would, I
am sure, decide to wait until there was no chance that anyone would be
abroad. The question would then arise as to what was to be done with the
body. We know now that she was not dead. For his purpose it was
important that she should go into the water alive. He could not,
therefore, just finish her off and conceal the body in a ditch, and he
must have been faced with a considerable problem. It is, of course, of
the very highest importance to discover what his solution was. I need
not ask you whether you have given particular attention to all this. The
Selbys’ premises constitute the nearest shelter. They comprise the
bungalow, a garage, two sheds, and a number of hen-houses. Mrs. Selby
was alone in the bungalow between seven o’clock and ten. Mr. Selby is
supposed to have been at the Holly Tree.”

“He was there till closing time.”

Miss Silver laid down her knitting for a moment, an occurrence so
unusual as to direct particular attention to what she was about to say.

“I do not doubt that he was there at closing-time. Is there, however,
any evidence that he was there continuously between the hours of seven
and ten, and particularly during the quarter of an hour just before and
after nine o’clock? The distance from the Holly Tree to the bungalow is
a very short one. If a game of darts was going on and Mr. Selby did not
happen to be playing at the time, would anyone have noticed if he had
been absent for, say, fifteen minutes?”

“I don’t know, but I’ll do my best to find out. Fifteen minutes doesn’t
give him very long to come and go, hit Miss Holiday over the head, and
get her out of the way.”

“It would have had to be very carefully planned—but then careful
planning is evident at every stage of this affair.”

Frank said in a thoughtful tone,

“Yes. But why Selby?”

“He is a stranger.”

“My dear ma’am, the countryside is littered with strangers.”

“There have been many changes since the war, but not so many in Hazel
Green.”

“There are a great many in and around Melbury, which is not so far
away.”

“But Mr. Selby is here. And he was here a year ago when Maggie Bell
disappeared. I am puzzled to account for it.”

He sketched a shrug.

“Business men do retire. Quite a lot of them have an urge to settle down
in the country and keep hens. A foul employment—” He gave a sudden
laugh. “No, no, withhold your lightnings! I swear I didn’t intend the
pun—didn’t even know it was there until I heard myself say it.”

Rightly dismissing this as trivial, she said,

“It is obvious that Mrs. Selby has no leanings towards a country life.
Mr. Selby, whilst professing his enjoyment, is not infrequently away for
several days at a time. He makes a joke of it and says the pavements
call him. During his absence the care of the hens devolves upon Mrs.
Selby.”

“All this from Florrie, who I suppose had it from Miss Holiday?”

“Yes, Frank. I gather that Mrs. Selby not only dislikes the care of the
hens, but that she is extremely nervous at being alone in the bungalow,
especially as Mr. Selby would not hear of their having a dog.”

“Which might mean anything, or nothing at all—except that Mr. Selby
doesn’t like dogs. You know, there really are people that don’t.”

Miss Silver herself had a preference for cats, but she did not consider
this the moment to say so. She allowed him to proceed, which he did, and
in a graver voice.

“You may care to know that Selby’s antecedents are all on record. The
Security lads thought of that over the question of leakages at Dalling
Grange. As a newcomer, he was naturally suspect, but nothing emerged. He
and his brother used to run a garage business in the Streatham Road.
Perfectly decorous and respectable. Regular subscriber to the local
Conservative Association. Life and soul of the party at local whist
drives. In fact a perfectly blameless past.”

Miss Silver inclined her head. It was in her mind that a perfectly
blameless past would be essential if a man was to be either a catspaw or
an active agent in some nefarious business. Not judging that this was
the moment to say so, she observed that a careful examination of the
garage and outhouses attached to the bungalow would, she supposed, be a
part of the routine enquiries which the police would undertake. She was
assured that this would be the case.

“They shall be gone over with a toothcomb. I suppose you don’t include
Mrs. Selby in your suspicions?”

Miss Silver gave a slight hortatory cough.

“I do not suspect either Mr. or Mrs. Selby. There are not, as yet, any
grounds for doing so. I merely suggest that their premises may have been
used, and that in view of the fact that Miss Holiday’s body must have
been concealed somewhere, and that Mr. Selby’s garage or one of his
outhouses stand out as the most likely if not the only possible places
of concealment, there is an urgent necessity for a very careful and
thorough investigation. As Lord Tennyson puts it—‘And in its season
bring the law ... Set in all lights by many minds, To close the
interests of all’.”

He took the impact of this with fortitude. After a slightly stunned
silence he remarked,

“As you say. Everything shall be gone through with the toothcomb. Well,
I suppose I had better be getting along.”




                               CHAPTER 25


Miss Silver detained him with the slightest of gestures.

“If you can spare me a few moments—”

“Of course. What is it?”

“There are some enquiries which it would not be possible for me to
attend to, but which I must be very glad if you could make.”

He was able to recognize this mild and tentative approach and allow
himself some irreverent amusement. There were chestnuts to be picked out
of the fire, and he was for it. Recalling some other occasions, the
amusement subsided and an alert attention took its place.

“Well, ma’am, what are they?”

“You will, perhaps, remember that I mentioned a Mrs. Maberly to you.”

“Did you? I believe you did—Henry Cunningham and the fatal diamond
ring. She left it about, it vanished, and everyone made up their minds
that Henry had taken it. After which he fled the country and didn’t come
back for twenty years. It’s rather an old story, isn’t it? Who am I
supposed to interrogate—Mrs. Maberly, or the submerged Henry?”

She looked some slight reproof and said,

“Neither. Mrs. Maberly left the neighbourhood and, I believe, the
country not very long after the loss of the ring. I understand that she
and her husband went to America. I merely wished to remind you of the
occurrence.”

There was a faint sardonic gleam in his eye.

“Synopsis of the story up to date. Now read on! What is the next
instalment?”

She said soberly,

“I have been struck by the fact that there seemed to have been quite a
number of other incidents connected with the theft, or perhaps I should
say the abstraction, of jewels. Mrs. Merridew introduced the subject on
Sunday when Miss Crewe was here at tea. A Lady Muriel Street was
mentioned. She and her husband live at Hoys, a large place just beyond
the village. I gather that she is one of those people who run round
telling everyone their family affairs down to the last detail. It seems
she has just discovered that a large and handsome diamond brooch left to
her by her godmother is merely an imitation. The centre stone is of
considerable size, and she had always supposed the ornament to be worth
a very large sum, but on attempting to sell it she was informed that the
stones were paste.”

Frank said,

“Well, well. I think she would have done better to hold her tongue.”

Miss Silver turned the cherry-coloured leggings.

“That was Miss Crewe’s remark. She then capped Mrs. Merridew’s story
with one about Lady Melbury, who appears to have suddenly discovered
that a necklace supposed to be extremely valuable and worn by her
great-grandmother at Queen Victoria’s coronation was in reality a mere
imitation. Miss Crewe commented very unfavourably upon Lord Melbury’s
folly in talking about the matter. Lady Melbury would, I gather, have
remained silent, but her husband, who is one of those easygoing sociable
men, went about telling everyone and rather openly wondering which of
his ancestors had effected the substitution.”

Frank said quickly,

“The necklace would have had to be valued for probate. I’m afraid he
can’t put it on the ancestors.”

Miss Silver coughed.

“That does not seem to have occurred to him. Lady Melbury is an
extravagant woman, and has been a beauty. He is probably the only person
in the county who does not believe that she disposed of the necklace
herself. These grand jewels appear so seldom, and then only in
circumstances where they are unlikely to be exposed to the eye of an
expert, that a substitution could be made with very little risk of
discovery.”

He laughed.

“And by the time it came to valuation for probate Lady Melbury wouldn’t
have to worry! Just between you and me, I wonder how often it has been
done. Most of the great families are broke, and why keep capital locked
up in jewels which only the expert can tell from a copy? Well, all this
is very interesting, but where does it get us?”

Miss Silver extracted a new ball from her knitting-bag. The joining of
the strands of wool took up her attention for a moment. Her reply when
it came was in her most persuasive voice.

“If you could see your way to making some enquiries of Lady Melbury and
Lady Muriel Street—”

“My dear ma’am—on what grounds!”

She said,

“I supposed you would raise that point.”

“What have you got at the back of your mind—a hunch?”

“My dear Frank!”

“It will do just as well by any other name. Shall we say a suspicion?”

“It is hardly that.”

“What is it then?”

She stopped knitting and looked at him with a kind of earnest
diffidence.

“I do not know quite how to put it. I have a feeling that when a number
of curious things have been happening they may be connected with one
another. I cannot at the moment bring any evidence to support this
feeling, but I have wondered whether an interview with Lady Melbury and
Lady Muriel might not produce some. The substitution of a copy for the
original must have been made by someone able to obtain a drawing or
photograph of sufficient accuracy to enable that copy to be made. There
must also have been an opportunity of effecting the change. This opens
up three possibilities. A member of the family. A confidential servant.
A friend or a relative with the requisite access. All these
possibilities should be tested. The one which occurs to me is the last
of them. I may be wrong—I don’t know. There is a name that comes to my
mind. I would like some enquiries to be made.”

He said in a doubtful voice,

“What name?”

“I would rather not say. The person of whom I am thinking is related to
many people in the county. As a young woman she amused herself with
sketching. She worships her house and her ancestry, and has been put to
it to maintain the family tradition. One of the missing women was in her
employment.”

Frank Abbott said,

“Miss Cunningham? Miss Crewe? The official eye has been rather fixed
upon the Dower House. Henry was off the map for more than twenty years,
Nicholas works at Dalling Grange, and Miss Cunningham was the employer
of Maggie Bell—whom I suppose we may now regard as the late Maggie
Bell.”

Miss Silver was knitting again, and quite briskly. She said in a decided
tone,

“Something of a very disturbing nature occurred here last night. I think
I had better tell you about it.”

“I think you had. When you say here—”

“I do not mean in this house.”

He felt some relief, and showed it.

“Thank goodness for that! Who was disturbed, and in what way?”

She said, “Miss Cunningham,” and proceeded to give him a very clear and
succinct account of what Mrs. Hubbard had observed and deduced. It
raised a frown, and some scepticism.

“What it amounts to is that Miss Cunningham burned some string—probably
after tripping over it somewhere—and that Mrs. Hubbard found the bit
that got away.”

He was instantly aware of being a pupil who had not given the right
answer. Her glance rested on him in mild rebuke.

“Not string, Frank—garden twine.” She stopped knitting for long enough
to produce a gummed-down envelope from her chintz bag and hand it over
to him. “Here are the fragments found by Mrs. Hubbard. You will observe
that the twine has been treated with tar, doubtless as a preservative,
and that this would make it unsuitable for normal use inside the house.
If, however, it was to be used as a trip-cord on the stairs, the dark
colour would render it extremely inconspicuous. In the second case, Mrs.
Hubbard reported that the balusters about six steps down from the
landing were marked as if something had been tied tightly between them,
and that some of the paint had flaked off.”

He said more soberly,

“This is third-hand evidence.”

She was knitting with a certain briskness to which he was no stranger.

“Not quite, Frank. Mrs. Merridew took me to call at the Dower House this
afternoon, and Miss Cunningham was kind enough to take us over it. There
are many points of historical interest, in addition to which I had the
opportunity of checking Mrs. Hubbard’s story. The stair runs up to the
bedroom floor, and there is a balustrade on either side. The woodwork
has been painted a dark chocolate brown. Miss Cunningham said what a
pity it was, but it was like that when they came, and the stair being
not oak but some much softer wood, they had never liked to risk injuring
it by having it stripped. Whilst this conversation was going on I was
able to observe the balusters, and to verify Mrs. Hubbard’s story. There
had been a recent flaking of paint from the two balusters she had
mentioned and the square corners distinctly showed the marks of the
twine. Furthermore, I could see for myself that there was some swelling
above Miss Cunningham’s right ankle, and a weal which could be plainly
discerned through her rayon stocking. It was also quite obvious that she
had had a shock of some kind. She had tea with Mrs. Merridew yesterday,
and there was no sign of it then. This afternoon she looked as if she
had not slept all night, and it was plain that there was something on
her mind. She was most kind in showing us over the house. I think she
may even have been glad of something that would distract her thoughts,
but she had difficulty in keeping them to the point, and on more than
one occasion corrected herself in what she was saying.”

“You think an attempt was made to injure her?”

“I believe it may have been more serious than that. The stair is a steep
one, and the hall is paved with stone. If she had lost her balance on
the sixth step she would have had another fourteen steps to fall, and
she would have pitched down them headfirst on to stone flags.”

“Who was in the house?”

“Her brother, Henry Cunningham, and her nephew Nicholas.”

“No one else?”

“No one else.”

After a pause he said,

“What makes you think it was Miss Cunningham who was aimed at? What
about Henry wanting to get rid of Nicholas, or Nicholas wanting to get
rid of Henry? That sort of thing has been known to happen.”

“Because I am convinced that Miss Cunningham herself believes it was she
who was intended to fall, and her distress is occasioned by the
conviction that either her brother or her nephew is attempting her life.
There is the question of how she was to be induced to run down those
stairs in such a hurry as to trip over the cord without noticing it. I
do not think that a summons from below would have been risked. The next
possibility which presents itself is a telephone call. The fixture is in
the hall. Henry Cunningham will not speak on the telephone, so Mrs.
Merridew informs me, and Nicholas only when the call is for him. It is,
therefore, always Miss Cunningham who hastens to it in the first place.
But to suppose a prearranged telephone call would be to assume an
outside accomplice, a thing which would greatly increase the risks. How
much easier and safer to place an ordinary alarm clock in the hall. It
could be set to any hour of the night, and the bell would be
indistinguishable from that of the telephone.”

He said with a faintly sardonic inflection,

“You think of everything, don’t you?” And then, “Perhaps you can tell me
why anyone should want to disable or kill Miss Cunningham.”

She said very gravely indeed,

“What was the motive for the removal of Maggie Bell and of Miss Holiday?
Miss Cunningham knows too much. I believe that to be the explanation in
all these cases. Each of them had, or stumbled upon, a piece of
knowledge which was dangerous to someone else. It is possible, perhaps
even probable in the cases of Maggie Bell and Miss Holiday, that they
were not aware, or at any rate not fully aware, of the implications of
what they knew. In each case swift and ruthless action was taken to
ensure silence. In the case of Miss Cunningham, she was one of the last
people to see Miss Holiday alive. She met her coming away from Crewe
House on Sunday evening, and she had a few words with her. She did not
respond when I asked her what Miss Holiday had said, but passed the
question off with a vague repetitive phrase. I did not say more at the
time—she was having tea with Mrs. Merridew—but I feel that she should
be pressed upon the subject.”

“But, my dear ma’am, she has been pressed. Didn’t I tell you?”

“I think not, Frank.”

He said in an apologetic tone,

“I’ve been run off my feet. But here it is. Denning has been combing the
place for anyone who might have met or seen Miss Holiday after she left
Crewe House. Well, he turned up a girl called Mary Tufton who was
bicycling back to Melbury after a visit to some people on a farm the
other side of Hazel Green. She says that somewhere about half past five
she saw Miss Cunningham near the drive of Crewe House. She knows her
quite well by sight, because Mrs. Tufton used to do a little odd
dressmaking for her. Anyhow, she says a woman in a raincoat came out of
the gate at Crewe House and Miss Cunningham stopped and spoke to her.
One of them dropped what looked like a letter and Miss Cunningham picked
it up. The other woman had her handkerchief out and was blowing her
nose. She saw all this as she came up to them—there’s a long straight
piece of road there, as you know—and as she went by, Miss Cunningham
turned in at the drive and the other woman went on in the direction of
the village. Mary says it all passed in no time at all. They met, Miss
Cunningham picked up the letter, and went on. Denning asked Miss
Cunningham about it, and she said yes, that was just what happened. Miss
Holiday dropped a letter when she used her handkerchief, and she picked
it up again. She had just stopped to have a word with her. And as the
letter was open and had been addressed to Miss Crewe, she offered to
take it up to Crewe House.”

“She did not say what the word was about?”

He laughed.

“I don’t suppose it was about anything. Denning did his job all right,
you know. He asked her if Miss Holiday seemed to be upset about
anything, and she said oh no, she was just as usual. By the way, he went
on and saw the cook at Crewe House—what’s her name, Mrs. Bolder—and
she said the same. I gather he came away rather the worse for wear. She
wanted to know what he thought she would be doing upsetting anyone.
Umbrage was taken, and he wasn’t sorry to get away from her. A lady with
a tongue!”

Miss Silver was not knitting at quite her usual speed. After a moment
she said,

“Thank you, Frank. I cannot say that I am satisfied. If Miss Holiday was
murdered, there must have been a motive for her murder. Someone who was
in contact with her must have decided that she had become, or was
becoming, dangerous and must be got rid of. It seems as if the danger
may have arisen suddenly. In which case every contact with her during
those last few hours of her life must be regarded as important and very
carefully considered. Miss Cunningham may be aware of something which
she has not seen fit to pass on to the police.”

“You are suggesting that Miss Holiday had acquired some dangerous
knowledge, and that she may have indicated as much to Miss Cunningham,
or that she may have been thought to have done so. Well, then, what
about Mrs. Maple and Mrs. Selby? Don’t forget they saw her too, and that
in the case of Mrs. Selby there was every opportunity for confidences.”

Miss Silver inclined her head.

“Quite so. But I think Mrs. Maple is negligible. The contact between her
and Miss Holiday was brief, and any confidence very unlikely when it
would have to be shouted into the ear of so deaf a person.”

“What about Mrs. Selby—a very likely candidate? Nobody seems to have
tried to get her out of the way.”

Miss Silver put her head a little on one side in the manner which always
reminded him of a bird and said,

“I find the immunity of Mrs. Selby very interesting, my dear Frank.”




                               CHAPTER 26


Rosamond and Jenny had finished their tea. Jenny had already plunged
back into her Gloria Gilmore, which was now at the very peak of
sentiment and romance. Rosamond, for the moment unoccupied, lay back in
her chair and considered with surprise her own reluctance to pick up the
tray and get on with the business of taking it through to the pantry and
washing up. After meaning to stay awake the night before, she had slept
so deeply and heavily that it did not seem as if she was really awake
even now. Her thoughts moved slowly and with an effort, and her body
would not have moved at all if she had not pushed it.

The sound of Lydia Crewe’s bell brought her to her feet with an effort.
Jenny frowned, jerked impatiently, and said, “Blast!”

“Jenny!”

Jenny made an impish face.

“Wouldn’t it be wonderful if it just happened when you said it?
Ping!—and no more bell! I think I’d blast Aunt Lydia too whilst I was
about it.”

“Jenny—_please_!”

Jenny giggled.

“Oh, go along! I’ll say something much worse than that if it goes on
ringing.”

Rosamond went into the crowded room with an intensification of the
feeling it always gave her. There were so many things—the air was so
hot and heavy that it was like moving against a sluggish tide. Her limbs
were heavy too, and for a moment her head swam.

Lydia Crewe sat in her upright chair. Her grey features were composed.
An old purple wrap flowed round her to her feet. The stones in her rings
glittered under the chandelier. Every light was on.

“What is it, Aunt Lydia?”

Lydia Crewe said in her harsh voice,

“Come in and sit down. I want to talk to you.”

Rosamond felt a stirring of alarm. You didn’t talk to Aunt Lydia. She
interrogated you, and she laid down the law. There was a cold
remembrance of an interview when everyone thought that Jenny was going
to die, and of another when the pattern of their life here was laid down
and she had to receive it with what gratitude she could muster. She
heard Lydia Crewe say, “I want to talk to you about Jenny,” and the room
was suddenly full of fear.

“Yes, Aunt Lydia?”

“She is a great deal better. In fact, to all intents and purposes I
think we may say that she is well. We have now to consider what the next
step should be.”

“Yes—” The word came heavy and halting. She had not meant to let it
stand alone, but Lydia Crewe did not wait for her to add anything to the
one lame word. She went on in her decided way.

“It has been unavoidable, but no one can pretend that Jenny has been
leading a normal life. A neglected education must have serious
consequences in after years. She needs discipline, companionship, and a
regular course of study. I do not think there can be any possible
disagreement on these points. In fact, what she now needs is to go to
school.”

It was what Craig had said—it was what she herself believed. But coming
from Lydia Crewe it struck like a blow. Before she could find the right
words the dominant voice was saying,

“I have therefore been instituting some enquiries. Miss Simmington’s
school at Brinton appears to me to be just what is required. It is
neither too small nor too large, the air is bracing, and the pupils are
equipped to earn their own living. Lady Westerham gives me a very good
account of the school and of Miss Simmington. She was left with a
cousin’s children on her hands and has very kindly made herself
responsible for their education, as I am prepared to do for Jenny’s.”

The deep-set eyes were fixed on Rosamond’s face. They demanded
gratitude. They compelled it. Rosamond did the best she could.

“It’s very good of you, Aunt Lydia—”

The “but” which should have followed was never spoken. Miss Crewe had
the word again.

“I am glad you should admit it. Young people are only too inclined to
take everything for granted. I am prepared to pay Jenny’s fees, and to
supply the outfit which the school requires. In return I shall expect
you to continue your present duties here, and since you will no longer
have Jenny to care for, I shall expect those duties to be carried out
rather more efficiently than they have been. I am sure you will agree
that the sooner Jenny takes advantage of this arrangement the better. In
the circumstances, Miss Simmington has agreed to receive her
immediately. She tells me that the outfit can be supplied locally.”

Rosamond was on her feet.

“Aunt Lydia, you don’t mean—you can’t mean that you have made all these
arrangements without telling us!”

She met a formidable glance.

“You are taking a very strange tone, Rosamond. I have been put to
considerable trouble, and I am prepared to undertake very considerable
expense. I do not wish to remind you that you and Jenny are quite
without resources of your own, but I feel obliged to do so. I have made
these perfectly proper and suitable arrangements, and I expect you to
fall in with them.”

Rosamond’s hands gripped one another.

“I know—Jenny will have—to go to school. I have been thinking about
it—myself. I thought perhaps—next term—I thought perhaps I could get
a post—near her—”

Miss Crewe said harshly,

“You have no qualifications for a post in a school. Your place is here
where you can make some return, however inadequate, for what I am
prepared to do for you.” She lifted some papers and held them out. “Here
is a prospectus of the school, and the last letter which I have received
from Miss Simmington. You will see that she suggests your bringing Jenny
down on Friday.”

Rosamond made no attempt to take the papers.

“Oh, no—no!”

Miss Crewe said sharply,

“Please control yourself! I am prepared to make some allowance for the
fact that this seems to have come as a surprise to you, though after the
specialist’s last report you should have been prepared. You have, in
fact, admitted as much.”

Rosamond spoke with an effort.

“I know—she ought to go to school. But it’s too soon. I must have
time—to get her used to the idea. No one—no one would say it would be
right to rush her like this. It would upset her—dreadfully.”

Lydia Crewe gave an impatient sigh.

“Really, Rosamond, you will have to watch your tendency to hysteria. If
you take this attitude with Jenny, she will naturally be upset. I expect
you to dwell on the advantages I shall be giving her and the
companionship she will have. This agitation is entirely out of place.
Please sit down and control yourself. If you go near Jenny in your
present frame of mind, she will certainly set herself against the plan.
Now I want to ask you quite seriously whether you think that Jenny’s
present way of life should be prolonged.”

Rosamond sat down again. She mustn’t let Lydia Crewe shake her. The
thing was unreasonable, and she must oppose it in a reasonable manner.
She said,

“No, of course not. She must go to school, but not at a moment’s notice
like this. And before she goes anywhere I should want to go down and see
the head mistress, and the school, and the other girls. Jenny would feel
quite differently about the whole thing if I could come back and tell
her all about it.”

Miss Crewe had been looking down at her rings. The colours moved under
the light of the chandelier. There was a large square ruby jostled by a
great half-hoop of diamonds. There was a sapphire which had been given
to her great-grandmother by the Regent, and the emerald which had been
brought back from the Indies by a Crewe who had sailed with Drake. She
looked up now, her eyes colder than the jewels, and said in a new
voice—quieter—slower—bleak,

“So you are to call the tune? And take your time about it? Do you really
know of no reason why time is just the one thing that neither you nor
Jenny can be allowed to have?”

Rosamond felt cold at her heart.

“What do you mean?”

“You either know what I mean, or you are even stupider than I have
thought you. Are you really ignorant of the fact that Jenny has been
getting out of the house at night?”

The colour rushed into Rosamond’s face, only to drain away again and
leave her blanched.

Miss Crewe gave a short hard laugh.

“I see you do know. May I ask how long it has been going on?”

“Aunt Lydia, I didn’t know. Someone told me—yesterday—that she had
been seen—”

“Who told you?”

“Craig Lester.”

“And who told him?”

“He saw her—himself.”

“In the middle of the night?”

“He had gone for a walk—he couldn’t sleep—”

“Where did he see her?”

Question and answer had come so fast that there had been no time to
think. It wasn’t thought that checked her now, it was the instinct to
protect, to cover up, to make as little of Jenny’s escapade as she
could. She said,

“She was coming into the drive.”

“And what was Mr. Lester doing there?”

“He was passing by, but when he saw Jenny he followed her until he saw
her go into the house again.”

Lydia Crewe said grimly,

“By the side door. I believe that is how she comes and goes. She was
lucky not to find it locked against her. If I find it open again, that
is what I shall do. Well, now that you have admitted this propensity,
will you maintain that it can be allowed to continue? Do you think it is
safe or suitable to have Jenny wandering heaven knows where in the
middle of the night? You are not very sensible or very experienced, but
I suppose you read the papers. You must have some idea of what might
happen to a girl wandering about alone. She wasn’t walking in her sleep,
I suppose?”

Rosamond shook her head.

“Craig said not.”

“Where had she been?”

“I don’t know.”

“What did she have to say for herself?”

“I haven’t asked her anything—yet. It—it was a shock. I wanted time.”

Miss Crewe looked at her with something like a smile.

“Oh, yes, of course—you must have plenty of time. And now that you have
had it, are you still going to tell me that there is any to lose? This
is Wednesday. If I could have had my way, I would have packed Jenny off
today. As it is, you will lock her into her room the next two nights,
and you will travel down to Brinton with her by the nine-thirty from
Melbury on Friday morning.”

Rosamond got up. She felt the pressure of a formidable will and she had
nothing to set against it. It was Jenny herself who had plucked the
weapon of reason out of her hand. Lydia Crewe had only to tell her story
and everyone who heard it would say that she was doing the right thing.
As she took a step towards the door, the harsh voice pursued her.

“You understand me, Rosamond—Jenny leaves this house on Friday
morning.”

She said, “Yes,” and went out of the room. There was nothing else for
her to say. It was an ultimatum, and they both knew it. Jenny was being
turned out. If they had had any money or anywhere to go, it would have
been an order of release. The plain fact was that they had nothing. When
Jenny left Crewe House on Friday morning Rosamond would have no choice
but to take her to the school which Lydia Crewe had chosen. She would
have no choice at all.




                               CHAPTER 27


She turned away from Jenny’s room and ran down the passage into the
hall. She had the feeling that she couldn’t run fast enough. Lydia Crewe
and her harsh dominant will reaching out to her, ruthless, compelling!
It was like knowing that there was a fierce animal shut up in that
oppressive room, and that it might at any moment be loosed and follow
her. She snatched her old coat from the cupboard under the stairs and
ran out by the side door and down the garden into the wood. To be alone
in the dusk had no terrors. It was the house that frightened her—and
Lydia Crewe. Out here in the wood she would not hear, however stridently
the summoning bell might ring, however persistently Jenny might call to
her. She wasn’t ready to face her yet. She must have time to put herself
out of the way, and to get her to see the whole thing as an adventure.
She must keep Jenny from getting hurt, and that was the way that would
hurt her least.

It was very dark in the wood. There was still some light outside, but
here the trees moved with their shadows and shut her in. They gave her a
feeling of safety. They were the walls of her house of defence. It was
her own place, where she could be quiet and steady her thoughts. She
walked to and fro in the little clearing at the heart of the wood.
Presently she would have to think, but for the moment all she wanted was
to stop thinking, to be quiet, and above all to be away from Crewe
House.

She did not know how long it was before she heard the footstep. It was a
man’s step, quick and vigorous. She heard Craig calling her.

“Rosamond! Are you there?”

For a moment she was any wild wood creature. She had an instinct to stay
quite still where she was and let the silence cover her, but when he
said her name again, she was Rosamond and he was Craig. She moved and
went to meet him.

“Jenny said you might be here.”

There was a roughness in his voice. He had had the unreasoned thought
that she might have just walked out of his world and been lost. His arm
came round her.

“Why on earth do you go off by yourself like this? I don’t like it.”

She said, “I must—have somewhere—”

“That barrack of a house has rooms enough!”

She shook her head. He could see the movement, but not how she looked.

“I have to get—right away—sometimes—”

“And this was one of the times?”

“Yes.”

“Rosamond, what has been happening?”

He was too close to her not to know when she was in trouble. He felt the
trouble now, but he didn’t know what it was. He had to know. He spoke
her name again insistently,

“_Rosamond_—”

She said on a quick uneven breath,

“She’s sending Jenny away—”

“Where?”

“A school at Brinton. She’s got it all fixed up.”

“Without telling you?”

“She never said a word. Craig, I knew she would have to go sometime. But
not like this. Even if she hadn’t been ill, I ought to see the place
first. No one has seen it. A woman she knows sent some orphan cousins
there—that’s how she heard of it. It’s just any place to send Jenny
away to, and she has done it all behind my back.”

He said in a controlled voice,

“You must certainly see any place she suggests before Jenny goes there.”

He felt the tremor that went over her.

“There isn’t time—she’s planned it so that there shouldn’t be time. She
says I’m to take her there on Friday—day after tomorrow! We’re to take
the nine-thirty from Melbury—it’s all fixed up. And there’s nothing I
can do. She’s got the whip hand and she knows it. She’s always had the
whip hand. We haven’t got any money. There is no one who would take us
in, and she won’t keep Jenny any longer. She is to go to school, and I
am to stay here and do what I can to make up for the fees Aunt Lydia
will have to pay.”

He said in his strong voice,

“Well, it’s not going to work out that way, so don’t worry. Even Miss
Crewe can be made to see that she can’t just bundle Jenny off like this
at a moment’s notice. Why don’t you stand up to her?”

He felt her stiffen.

“You think I’m afraid. Well, I am, but I wouldn’t let that stop me. If I
were on my own I’d just walk out. I’d have done it long ago. In fact I
wouldn’t ever have come. It’s like being in prison. But what can I do
with Jenny? The specialist said she would need care for some time. I
don’t know what I could earn—not very much, because I’m not trained for
anything. It would have to be housework, or a shop—and how could I
leave Jenny alone all day? I did think if I could find a really nice
school they might take Jenny for less and let me work there. I’ve heard
of that sort of thing. But this doesn’t give us any time. And, Craig,
you say she can’t do it all in a hurry like this—but she can, and
everyone would back her up. You see, she knows about Jenny getting out
of the house at night.”

“How does she know?”

“She didn’t tell me, but she does. And you see, it justifies her. She
said how dangerous it was, and it couldn’t possibly be allowed to go on.
Everything she said was reasonable and just what anyone would say. But
that wasn’t why she said it. It was just something she’d got to make me
come to heel and do what she wanted. Do you see now why I had to get out
of the house? I couldn’t see Jenny until I got hold of myself. I
couldn’t tell her she was going to be sent away—I don’t know how to
tell her now.”

He had had his arm round her all this time, and she had let it stay. It
crossed his mind to wonder if she so much as knew that it was there. He
put both hands on her shoulders now and let her feel their weight.

“Rosamond, stop talking! If you go on saying there isn’t anything to be
done, there won’t be. It’s quite futile. If you’ll stop panicking and
listen to me, there’s a perfectly simple way out of all this. I should
just like to feel that you are going to listen before I tell you about
it.”

“I’m listening.”

“Well, to start with, I don’t know whether you happen to remember that
I’ve asked you to marry me. You didn’t say yes, and you didn’t say no,
and I didn’t want to rush you. I still don’t want to—I’d like you to
believe that. But events seem to be taking charge, and that would be one
way of getting the better of them. If we were married there wouldn’t be
any problem to settle—we could just take Jenny and go. I’ve got a
house, and I’ve got a job. It’s all as simple as the ABC. But it depends
on what you feel about it. I don’t know whether I’ve mentioned that I
love you, but I don’t think you can have helped noticing it. I fell in
love with your picture, and I fall farther and faster every time I see
you. I know myself pretty well, and as far as I am concerned it will
just go on like that. I’m not putting in any sobstuff, because we’ve got
to use our heads. Now what about your side of it? I think I gave you a
brief catalogue of my faults. Anyhow you will have noticed them for
yourself by now. All I can say is what I think I’ve said before, I’ll
look after you, and I’ll look after Jenny. And I’ll eat my hat if I’m
not easier to live with than Lydia Crewe. What about it?”

Rosamond found it hard to believe that she could be shaking on the edge
of laughter, but right from the beginning, even when he was saying the
most outrageous things, even when he was making her angry, there had
been a hidden spring of laughter bubbling up and threatening her
self-control. If she let it have its way it would drown all the feelings
of pride and self-respect to which she had been brought up. You can’t
laugh at someone and be proud at the same time. The two things just
don’t mix. When he said, “What about it?” it came over her how easy it
would be just to say yes and let go of all her troubles.

He bent suddenly and laid his cheek against hers, not kissing her but
just staying like that for a moment. When he said her name on a quick
shaken breath, she pushed him away.

“You can’t, you can’t! It wouldn’t be fair!”

“To me, or to you?”

“To you of course!”

“Thank you, I can look after myself. We’re not driving a bargain, you
know. We’re talking about getting married—to have and to hold from this
day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness
and in health, till death us do part. And that’s quite a different sort
of thing. It means there are two of you to take whatever comes along,
and if they are bad times there are two of you to take them on, and if
they are good times, there are two of you to share them. It’s not a
matter of being fair or unfair. I’m in it up to my neck, and all you can
do about it is to stay high and dry on the bank yourself. Only I warn
you I shall never stop trying to pull you in.”

She said with something between a sob and a laugh, “Oh, I’m in all
right,” and felt his arms close about her. There were no more words. She
put up her face and they kissed, and it was the happiest, most natural
thing in the world. It was like coming home after you have been out in
the wind and the rain. It was like a fire-lit room when you have been
cold for a long, long time. It was like food when you are hungry, and
water to quench your thirst.

He became aware that his face was wet with her tears. He said,

“Rosamond, why are you crying? It’s all over—there’s nothing to cry
about now.”

“That’s why—”

“My darling idiot!”

“Yes—I am rather. There hasn’t been anyone—for such a long time—” She
was groping for a handkerchief and not being very successful.

“Here—have mine.”

It was large and dry and clean. Tears were all very well in one of
Gloria Gilmore’s books, but in real life they made a sight of you and
you had to blow your nose.

“Better now?”

She stuffed the handkerchief down into the pocket of the old tweed coat.
He could just see the movement of her head which meant “Yes.”

“Well, my sweet, that being that, suppose we get down to brass tacks.
You’re not the sort that faints when you have a shock, are you?”

“No, I’m not.”

“Because it would be damned inconvenient, and the ground is sure to be
wet.”

“Craig—what is it?”

“Well, nothing much—nothing to get the jitters about anyway. It’s just
that I want you to marry me tomorrow.”

It wasn’t a shock at all—it just fitted in. But she heard herself say,

“We couldn’t!”

“Darling, that’s where you make a mistake. I went to see my uncle’s
solicitor in Melbury yesterday morning and got all the low-down. I am of
age, you are of age, and the registrar has to have one clear day’s
notice. I went on to see him, and we can get married tomorrow morning at
half past ten. We can have a church wedding afterwards if you want to.
It takes a bit longer, which is why I plumped for the registrar.”

“Craig—”

“Darling, you had better let me do the talking. I’ve been getting
steadily more enraged every day since I first came down here. You are
not only being overworked and bullied, but there are all sorts of things
going on in the background. Two people have disappeared in this village.
One of them has certainly been murdered, and the other probably. Jenny
gets out and wanders about in the middle of the night. And now Miss
Crewe wants to pack her off to a school no one knows anything about. As
things are, she would have public opinion on her side, and you can’t
fight her alone. I’ve got no standing and I couldn’t do a thing, but
once we were married it would be a very different pair of shoes. Miss
Crewe isn’t Jenny’s guardian or anything like that, I take it?”

“Oh, no.”

“Then we can just take her and go, and nobody can say a word about it.
But we can’t do anything until I’ve got the legal right to take you
away. I won’t rush you afterwards, and I don’t want to rush you now, but
you must give me the right to look after you both. Once I’ve got that,
it’s all plain sailing. Rosamond, I’ve got to get you away!”

She had walked in the wood so many times and been solaced there. Now all
at once it was a cold and desolate place. She wanted to be where there
were lights and people. She wanted to be anywhere in the world away from
Crewe House, and from Lydia Crewe. She couldn’t look after Jenny by
herself, but Craig would look after them both.




                               CHAPTER 28


At about half past two on that same afternoon Nicholas looked up from
the plan he was drawing. Howard, who was Mr. Burlington’s secretary and
whom he didn’t much like, had come noiselessly between him and the
light. As the scale to which he was working was a very small one and
demanded absolute accuracy, he was annoyed, and showed it. Super
secretaries who oiled around and suddenly sprang themselves upon you
could hardly expect to be popular. Howard was not only not popular, he
was detested. He looked down his long sallow nose and said, “Mr.
Burlington would like to see you, Cunningham,” and stood waiting with
rather the air of a warder for Nicholas to get to his feet. He did not,
however, accompany him any farther than the door of Mr. Burlington’s
private room, where he withdrew in a disapproving manner, leaving him to
go in alone.

The room was a small and pleasant one. Successive mistresses of Dalling
Grange had made music or sat to their embroidery where the light came
slanting in through three tall windows. They had been hung with brocaded
curtains then, now they were bare. The pale green panelling had a dusty
look. Two serviceable rugs took the place of the delicate carpet which,
with most of the furniture, had gone to the sale room, giving place to
an office desk, book-cases, filing cabinets, and some rather utilitarian
chairs.

Mr. Burlington sat at the desk—a thin man with a quick frown and a
sharp tongue. He had brains, or he wouldn’t be sitting in that chair.
That was about as far as Nicholas had ever felt inclined to go in his
favour. He said abruptly,

“Come in and shut the door!”

As Nicholas complied he was aware that there was a second person
present. He had been looking out of the window. He turned round now and
came forward. It had really been quite easy not to notice him. He was of
medium height and medium build. He wore pale rimmed glasses, and his
general colouring might have been described as protective—thin, fine
hair of a mousy shade; the most ordinary of features; the least
noticeable of clothes. Mr. Burlington turned to him and said,

“This is Nicholas Cunningham. I am going to ask him to give you his own
account of the interview I had with him this morning.”

Nicholas found this on the chilling side. He concluded that the
indeterminate gentleman must be an Important Person. Even a Very
Important Person. He felt that he had been named to him rather more as
the accused is named in court than in the way of a social introduction.

Still shrouded in anonymity, the Important Person sat down. Nicholas was
invited to sit down. He took a chair which had obviously been placed for
him and faced the light from those long unshaded windows. Mr. Burlington
said,

“Now, Cunningham—”

“I don’t quite know where you want me to begin, sir.”

Mr. Burlington frowned.

“I want you to repeat what passed between us this morning from the
moment that you came into this room and shut the door behind you. What
did you say, and what did you do?”

This was an odd game. He supposed it to be some kind of test of his
accuracy. He said,

“You were sitting at your table writing, and I came up to it and said,
‘It’s happened again, sir’.”

“And what did you mean by that?”

“Do you want me to go back over what had happened before?”

“Certainly.”

“About a month ago I found an odd piece of paper in one of my pockets.
It looked as if it had been there some time, but I don’t see how it
could have been. It was crumpled and rubbed. It had been written on in
pencil, but the writing was very faint, and neither the words nor the
lettering were English.”

The Important Person with the extraordinarily unimportant air now spoke
for the first time.

“What did you take them to be?”

“I thought they might be Russian, or one of the other Eastern European
languages.”

“What made you think so?”

“The letters were different.”

“Do you know any Russian?”

“No, sir.”

“What languages do you know?”

“French—a little German—the usual amount of school Latin—”

“You couldn’t read the paper?”

“No, sir.”

“What did you do with it?”

“I thought I had better show it to Mr. Burlington.”

“What made you think that?”

“I thought it might be Russian. I didn’t like it being in my pocket. I
thought he had better see it.”

With the slightest of gestures he was handed back. Mr. Burlington told
him to go on.

“When it happened again, I liked it a whole lot less. I came down to
breakfast this morning, and my aunt came in with another of those
crumpled papers in her hand. She had been mending my jacket pocket the
evening before. She said the paper must have worked down through the
hole. She said it was caught between the lining and the stuff. She
thought I might want it.”

The quiet voice took up its questioning again.

“Had she read it?”

“She wouldn’t read anything she thought was private.”

“She might not have thought it was private. Did she read it?”

“I don’t know.”

“You didn’t ask her?”

Some colour came up into Nicholas’s face.

“No.”

“Why not?”

“I didn’t want her to think it was important.”

“That might be quite a good reason if it wasn’t a personal one. Was it?”

The last few words were not loud, but they gave him the feeling that he
had been flicked in the face. Quite unexpectedly. He said, “No, sir.” He
hoped he hadn’t waited too long before saying it.

“Perhaps you will expand that a little.”

“I didn’t know what was on the paper. I remembered about the other one.
I thought it was another of the same kind. Mr. Burlington wouldn’t want
it to be talked about.”

“You didn’t read it immediately?”

“Not until I was alone. I just pushed it into my pocket and hoped my
aunt would think it was of no importance.”

“You had already made up your mind it was important?”

“I thought Mr. Burlington ought to see it.”

“When did you make up your mind to show it to him?”

“As soon as I read it.”

Without any change the quiet voice said,

“I am going to read it now.”

The paper came out of the pocket-book. The glasses focussed themselves
upon it. The voice read:

“—you must see this for yourself. If you cannot get us any better
material you are useless, and when anything is of no more use, it is
better to scrap it.”

“When you read these words, what was your reaction?”

“I thought someone was trying to frame me.”

“And you decided to go to Mr. Burlington. A very proper course, but one
you might quite easily have taken if you had wished to safeguard
yourself against some outside employer who had become dissatisfied, and
who was prepared to scrap you.”

Nicholas pushed back his chair and came to his feet with a jerk.

“Sir—I protest!”

The eyes behind the pale glasses rested upon him steadily.

“Yes. But then you would—wouldn’t you? And all the more if it was
true.”

Nicholas Cunningham took hold of himself. Easy enough to go off the deep
end. And satisfying while it lasted. But there were always the bits to
be picked up afterwards, and he didn’t fancy the job. He looked across
the table and said,

“I can’t prove anything. I can only tell you what’s happened. I took
both those papers to Mr. Burlington as soon as I found them. I think
someone is trying to frame me. If I knew who it was I shouldn’t be here.
I should be dealing with him.”

Burlington looked at the other man, and back at Nicholas. He said,

“Sit down, Cunningham.”




                               CHAPTER 29


It was getting on for ten o’clock that night when Craig Lester came out
of the Holly Tree and strolled across the road. As he came to the White
Cottage he could see that the lights were on in both front rooms. With
only the two ladies in the house, it occurred to him to wonder why two
sitting-rooms should be in use. But before he could reflect that he
hadn’t lost much time in acquiring the true village spirit the front
door opened and Frank Abbott came out. During the moment in which he
stood outlined against the glow from the dining-room door Craig made up
his mind. He was aware of the figure of Miss Maud Silver in the
background, and as Frank turned to bid her good-night, he stepped
between the over-arching yews and walked quickly up the flagged path.
Miss Silver, drawing back in order to shut the door, checked, looking
into the darkness. Frank Abbott turned at the sound of his footsteps and
almost bumped into him. Then, as recognition followed, he said,

“Hullo, it’s you! Which of us do you want? I was just off.”

“I wonder if I could have a few words with Miss Silver? If it isn’t too
late.”

“Well, if you don’t want me I’ll be going.”

He went down the path. Craig said in an apologetic voice,

“Is it too late, Miss Silver?”

The light was behind her, but he thought she smiled.

“By no means, Mr. Lester. Pray come in.”

She took him into the dinning-room and indicated the chair which Frank
Abbott had occupied. When they were seated and she had resumed her
knitting, he received an encouraging look.

“What can I do for you, Mr. Lester?”

“A very great favour, if you will.”

“Will you tell me what it is?”

“Well, before I do that, perhaps you ought to know that I have a pretty
good idea of why you are here.”

She said with a shade of rebuke,

“I am paying a visit to my old school friend, Mrs. Merridew.”

“And Frank Abbott is paying a visit to one of his innumerable cousins! I
suppose he has told you that we have known each other on and off for
quite a time?”

“Yes, Mr. Lester.”

“Well, what I’m trying to get across is that I know a good deal about
your particular activities. Frank gave me a hint not to do any
broadcasting—I suppose he told you that too.”

She smiled.

“These things make so much talk in a village.”

He nodded.

“As far as I am concerned, you are Mrs. Merridew’s friend and nothing
more.”

Her needles clicked above the bright wool.

“It matters less than it would have done at first. Pray, what is it that
you wish me to do for you?”

His face lit up with a smile that transformed it.

“You wouldn’t feel inclined to come to my wedding, would you? Because
that’s what I came here to ask. And before you say no, will you be very
kind indeed and let me tell you a little more about it all?”

“Certainly, Mr. Lester.”

He said in a quick boyish way which took ten years from his age,

“You _are_ kind! And that is what Rosamond wants. She has never had it,
and just now she needs it badly.”

Miss Silver looked at him in a most sympathetic manner.

“A most charming girl.”

He said with complete simplicity,

“I fell in love with her picture before I ever saw her—just an odd
photograph slipped in with some manuscripts which Jenny sent my firm.
Then when I saw her—well, it was all up. But of course I didn’t expect
it to be the same for her. I didn’t want to rush her. I thought perhaps
it would take a long time. And then I began to see that time was just
the thing we hadn’t got. Miss Crewe was working her to death, Jenny was
all set to kick over the traces, and there was something pretty nasty
going on in the background. This is all in confidence of course.”

“Certainly, Mr. Lester.”

He could be sensitive to the finer shades.

“I needn’t have said that—I _know_. You’ll forgive me, won’t you? Well,
on Sunday, I discovered that Jenny was getting out of the house at
night. I couldn’t sleep—I’d got a lot on my mind—and I went out for a
walk. When I was near the entrance to Crewe House a car came down the
road. The headlights picked Jenny up. You know there’s a stile there
leading to a footpath over the fields—she had just come across from
there. As soon as the car had gone she ran past me and went up the
drive. I saw her let herself in by a side door. I told Rosamond, and she
was very much upset. Now it seems that Miss Crewe either saw or heard
her come in. She has been making arrangements behind Rosamond’s back to
send Jenny to school, and this afternoon she told her it was all fixed
up and she was to take her down there on Friday morning. That just about
put the lid on. I’d been taking precautions, you know. Those girls
haven’t a penny, or a soul in the world to take their part except me,
and as things were I’d got just no standing at all. What I did was to
give notice at the Registrar’s in Melbury—you can get married after one
clear day. We can get married tomorrow. I’ve fixed it for half past ten.
Well, I want Rosamond to have someone with her. These things make
talk—I want to stop as much of it as I can. I’ve come here to ask you
whether you’ll drive into Melbury with us and see us married. We can’t
ask anyone who lives here, because Miss Crewe would have their blood,
and besides—I can’t think of anyone I’d rather have.”

He received a smile of great kindness and charm.

“You feel that this is really necessary, Mr. Lester?”

“Yes, I do. If I’m Rosamond’s husband and Jenny’s brother-in-law, I can
get them out of here. There are things going on—I don’t like it.
They’re not safe.”

She inclined her head.

“I will come to your wedding, Mr. Lester.”




                               CHAPTER 30


Lucy Cunningham had gone through the day, she hardly knew how. As long
as Mrs. Hubbard was there and she was doing things in and about the
house she managed pretty well. Whilst she was making beds, dusting,
emptying hot-water bottles—Henry liked one, and she wouldn’t have done
without hers for anything—mixing balancer meal with scraps, boiling up
a mash and feeding it to the hens, the comfortable everydayness of these
occupations stood like a wall between her and the events of the night.
From the safe shelter of that wall it was possible to regard them as
partaking of the unreal quality of any other dream. Looking back as far
as her childhood, she could remember to have dreamed that she was being
pursued by wolves or Red Indians, that she was trying to pack everything
she possessed in one small handbag and catch a train for Australia, the
missing of which would plunge her in unknown but quite irremediable
disaster. She had also dreamed about falling over cliffs, a long, long
swooping drop, and waking just in time to avoid being dashed to pieces
at the bottom. All these were things which had happened in the night and
had frightened her very much at the time, but in the comfortable
daylight they thinned away and were gone.

She went busily from one task to another, and found that the weight upon
her tended to lift. There were even times when she ceased to be aware of
it for perhaps as long as several minutes on end. Mrs. Parsons’s cat was
back on the wall again and she had to chase it away—a patchy
tortoiseshell with a lot of white about it, and really quite a malignant
expression in its eyes. She would have to speak to Lydia about having
down the tree between the hen-run and the wall, an old walnut that never
bore, because the minute there were any young chickens, that horrible
cat would find it only too easy to climb down it and snatch them. Lydia
wouldn’t like the tree to be cut. She didn’t like anything changed or
altered. Of course she didn’t _have_ to ask her, because Papa had bought
the Dower House and she had a legal right to cut down anything she
wanted to. Only she couldn’t stand on her legal rights—not with Lydia
Crewe.

Henry was out for most of the morning, and they turned out his room.
There was a dead frog in his collar-drawer, and some rather
slimy-looking plants in the bedroom basin. She was considering whether
they could be thrown away, when she discovered that there were tadpoles
hatching out amongst them. She desisted therefore, and laid the frog on
the front of the washstand where he could hardly help seeing it. Mrs.
Hubbard, in the background, made small clicking sounds of disapproval
punctuated by an occasional sniff. How Miss Cunningham could put up with
it, she _didn’t_ know. Nobody could say he wasn’t a quiet gentleman, but
just as well he never got married, for there weren’t many wives would
put up with what his sister did.

By the time Henry’s room had been left as clean and tidy as was
compatible with not throwing anything away Lucy really felt a great deal
better. All the years during which he had brought in eggs, and moths,
and caterpillars, and practically every other mess you could think of,
stood solidly between her and the horrid thought which had come to her
in the night. Not Henry who mourned when so much as a beetle died—oh,
no, not Henry!

She went into Nicholas’s room to dust and tidy it, whilst Mrs. Hubbard
went downstairs. It was the room he had had since he was a little boy
and George and Ethel had sent him home from India. They had both died
out there, and she had been left to bring him up. There was still one
bookcase full of books about submarines, and aeroplanes, and boy
detectives. She picked up one or two and looked at them. There was a
page all scribbled over with drawings of hens, very clever and funny.
Nicholas could always draw. There was a caricature of Lydia, tall and
black and severe, and one of herself, all round-about. She set the book
back on the shelf and remembered Nicholas putting his arm round her and
saying in his laughing voice, “But, Lu darling, what’s the good of
pretending—you _are_ a rolypoly, and there’s no getting away from it.”
Her heart softened. He had laughed at her, he had teased her, he had
loved her.

It was after Mrs. Hubbard had gone that the weight began to come down
again. Henry had been in one of his most abstracted moods at lunch. He
propped a book before him and only spoke to ask for a second helping of
pudding, and when he had finished it he went away into the study and
shut the door. There was nothing new about this, but Lucy Cunningham
felt that it would have been pleasant to have had coffee together in the
drawing-room, and that it wouldn’t have hurt him to tell her what he had
been doing all the morning. She was, therefore, rather more than pleased
to have a visit from Marian Merridew and the friend who was staying with
her. She took them over the house, apologizing by the way for the
tadpoles and the dead frog.

“My brother is writing a book, you know, and it upsets him very much if
anything is thrown out or tidied away.”

Miss Silver was all that was interested and sympathetic. She admired the
needlework picture worked by Georgiana Crewe in the year 1755. She
admired the graceful portrait of her in the drawing-room.

“Of course all the valuable portraits are at Crewe House, but this one,
as you see, has been painted upon one of the panels, so Mr. Crewe let it
go with the house. My father bought most of the furniture as it stood.
He and Mr. Crewe thought it would be a pity to disturb it, and they had
more than they wanted at Crewe House—but it upset Miss Crewe very much
at the time.”

She did not know what had made her say that about Lydia. She was just
feeling that she wanted to talk, and it slipped out. It didn’t really
matter of course, because Marian Merridew knew, and this Miss Silver was
just a passing guest. She went on telling her about the house.

But whether they went up or down, she found that her eyes went to the
sixth baluster from the top of the stairs, where a tripcord of garden
twine had been tied so tightly that the edges had dented and some of the
paint flaked off.

She kept the two ladies as long as she could, but in the end they went
away and she was left alone. Then, as the house darkened and silence
filled it, her wall of defence came tumbling down and she was left face
to face, not with a dream, but with stubborn inveterate fact. Someone
had tried to kill her in this house last night. There were only the
three of them there—all Cunninghams, all of one blood—Henry, and
Nicholas, and herself—

One of them had tried to kill her. Would he leave it at that, or would
he try again?

The evening closed down slowly. There was low cloud and a dampness in
the air. Nicholas rang up to say that he would be late.

“Don’t bother about a meal—I shan’t want it.”

She could not keep the old solicitude from her voice. She heard it
there, and in some curious way it reassured her.

“Do you mean that you are dining out? You must have your food.”

He said easily, “That’s all right—I’ll be having something here,” and
rang off.

Her heart sank. Another of those dreadful meals with Henry not speaking.
There had been so many of them, and she had not noticed or minded. Now
she saw them stretching out in front of her in an endless unendurable
vista. And then, quite suddenly like the jab of a knife, there was the
thought that there might be no future for her to dread. If she had
fallen at the tripcord on the stairs last night she would not be here
now, thinking about having supper alone with Henry and being frightened.
Suppose there was something else that was planned to happen. Perhaps
now. Perhaps later. It might be that she and Henry would sit down to one
last meal. Perhaps nothing would happen until after that. Henry would
want his supper—and there would be the washing up—

How foolish, how dreadfully foolish to let such thoughts come into her
mind. She mustn’t let them come. She must think about getting supper and
washing up afterwards. There were herrings to fry, and she must remember
that Henry liked his crisp. And the toast too. That was the sort of
thing she must keep her mind on. And then Nicholas would be coming home,
and—and—“I can always lock my door.”




                               CHAPTER 31


Up at Crewe House Rosamond moved as if she were in a dream. The night
lay before her like the river of Jordan, dark, and narrow, and fleeting.
She had only to cross it, and she and Jenny would be free of their house
of bondage. Only those twelve dark hours to cross, and the promised land
would be theirs. Sometimes her thoughts were so light and joyful that
she felt as if they had the power to lift her over a longer, darker
passage than this. Sometimes she looked towards the morning and found it
very far away. She had not as yet said anything to Jenny, either about
her going to school or about Craig. Since Jenny would not now be going
to the school which Lydia Crewe had chosen for her, there was no need to
trouble her about it. If she were not afraid, she would be angry, and in
any case violently disturbed. Rosamond wanted her to sleep and be ready
for what she would have to be told next day. It wouldn’t disturb her,
but she would be very much excited, and she must have a good night’s
rest.

Her efforts to get Jenny to bed early were extremely unsuccessful. Jenny
wanted to listen to the wireless, she wanted to finish her book, she
wanted to talk, she rejected with vehemence the idea of being sleepy.
Her eyes sparkled and her tongue ran nineteen to the dozen.

“There’s the kind of night you want to rush into bed and snuggle down
and get into a nice comfortable dream, and there’s the kind when you
want to go out and dance in the wind. There’s a lovely swoopy sort of
wind tonight. I can hear it whooshing round the house like a lot of mad
galloping horses. I expect it’s what used to make witches get their
broomsticks and fly up the chimney. Mustn’t it have been fun! I’d have
loved to be a witch and go rushing over the housetops!”

“Jenny, it’s getting late.”

Jenny put out her tongue. Her eyes danced and her hair glittered.

“Oh, no, it isn’t. You know, Rosamond, what’s the matter with you is
that you’re a born fuss. Come and have breakfast—come and have
supper—come and have lunch—come along to bed—all day and every day!
And if you think I don’t get bored with it, you can think again! I get
as bored as being stuck in the middle of a mud swamp and nothing to do
except wonder how soon an alligator will come and eat me. Darling,
wouldn’t Aunt Lydia make a lovely crocodile!”

Rosamond was just going to say “Jenny!” again, when Lydia Crewe’s bell
rang. Jenny said, “Blast!” and was reproved with a shake of the head as
Rosamond ran out of the room.

Lydia Crewe didn’t like being kept waiting. Even now she was not in the
best of tempers. She was in her chair, sitting very bolt upright and
tapping on the arm of it with bony fingers.

“I wished to ask you if you had spoken to Jenny.”

“Not yet, Aunt Lydia.”

“And why not?”

Rosamond came a little farther into the room.

“I didn’t want to upset her.”

“Why would she be upset? It’s high time all this spoiling and cockering
came to an end! Do you imagine that Jenny can go through the world in
cotton wool?”

“I thought it would be better for her to have a good night’s rest.”

Miss Crewe said sharply,

“If she would give herself the chance! You will remember to lock her in.
Fortunately, there is no way in which she can get out of the windows.
You were both very much annoyed when I had the bars put in. As I told
you at the time, I do not approve of young girls sleeping on the ground
floor without proper protection. I suppose you will now admit that I was
right.”

“Aunt Lydia—”

“Well?”

“It—it would upset her dreadfully to be locked in.”

“Why should she know anything about it? She won’t unless she tries to go
out, and if she does that she will deserve to be upset. You don’t really
imagine that she can be allowed to run about the fields by night?”

“No, of course not.”

“Then you will do as I say! You can lock the door after she is asleep
and open it before she wakes in the morning. It is all perfectly simple,
and you will see that it is done. You can go and get my hot milk now,
and then I don’t suppose I shall be wanting you again.”

By the time she had heated the milk and brought it up Miss Crewe was in
her bedroom. She put a hand round the communicating door to take the cup
and shut it again at once. There was to be no more talk. And this was
the last time that Rosamond would do this errand and get no more than
that harsh goodnight for thanks. The thought startled her. It didn’t
seem as if the endless service could be ending here. She picked up the
tray with its other two cups of milk and went along the passage to
Jenny’s room.

When she came in, there was no Jenny—just a hump in the bed and a
stifled giggle from under the eiderdown. Then, as she turned to set down
the tray, back went the bedclothes and Jenny was up like a
jack-in-the-box, her bright hair tossing.

“Say I’ve been quick! I have, haven’t I? And my things all neatly
folded! ‘Virtue Rewarded, or the Piece of Chocolate’ is what I should
call it if it was a story I was writing! Like those heavenly books that
belonged to Aunt Lydia’s mother when she was a Sweet Young Girl!
_Darling_—can you imagine Aunt Lydia as a sweet young girl, or a nasty
little one, or all wrapped up in long clothes like they used to with
babies! And woollen veils over their faces because of the fresh air
being so deadly! There was one in the photograph album Aunt Lucy brought
to show me, and I don’t see how the baby could breathe at all! No wonder
such a lot of them died!”

Jenny drank her hot milk, and then suddenly in the middle of her chatter
she began to yawn and was pleased to allow herself to be tucked up and
kissed good-night.

Rosamond went back to her own room and thought about locking the door.
She hadn’t said she wouldn’t, and she hadn’t said she would. She had
never done such a thing before, and she didn’t want to do it now. If
Jenny woke in the dark and found that she couldn’t get out, it might do
something dreadful to her. There was something about being locked in
that could bring up all the prisons in the world and loose their dreams
upon you. She made up her mind to leave the door alone. Now that Jenny
was in bed, she could put some of their things together—not really pack
them, but sort them out and get them ready to pack. She moved to and fro
in the room. When there was no more to do, she undressed and lay down in
her bed. She had no thought that she would sleep, but no sooner was her
head upon the pillow than she had no more thought at all. All that had
come and gone with her was lost in a formless mist.




                               CHAPTER 32


Jenny had absolutely no intention of going to sleep. Her mind was in an
extremely quick and lively state. Ever since Rosamond had come in from
the wood she had been quite sure that something was going on. It was
very stupid not to tell her what it was. She could, of course, have got
it out of Rosamond by being cut to the heart and allowing a few
effective tears to trickle down the cheek, but on the whole she
considered that she would get more amusement out of playing a guessing
game and trying to catch Rosamond out. She might have had her back to
the chest of drawers, but she was perfectly well aware that certain
things had been carried away. Her thoughts, conditioned by the romantic
novels of Gloria Gilmore, leapt to something very near the truth. They
were going to elope with Craig Lester, and that would mean they wouldn’t
have to live with Aunt Lydia any more. The prospect was far too dazzling
for her to waste a single minute in going to sleep. Rosamond could have
half an hour after she had stopped moving about next door, and then
Jenny meant to see to her own treasures. She wasn’t going to leave her
manuscripts to anyone else, or her books. The very things which you
would die rather than leave behind, and she just wasn’t going to have
them left.

She heard eleven strike, and then the quarter, and the half hour.
Sometimes the church clock sounded quite loud, sometimes you couldn’t
hear at it at all. It just depended on which way the wind was blowing.
When there hadn’t been sounds from Rosamond’s room for quite a long
time, she got up and put on her warm blue dressing gown. She had grown
so much that it was nearly up to her knees, but it still met across the
chest. She tied the cord round her waist and began to put all her
manuscripts together in the top long drawer. There oughtn’t to have been
room for them there, but there was, because Rosamond had taken such a
lot of things out.

When she had got all the papers together she started on the right-hand
drawer at the top. It had her pencils in it, and some peppermint creams
which gave the whole drawer a lovely smell, a pair of gloves with a hole
which she had forgotten to mend, a compass, a ruler, a fountain pen, a
bottle of ink, a brown hair ribbon, a warm scarf, a Chinese box, and a
lot of odds and ends of the kind which other people have a most unfair
way of describing as rubbish. Jenny didn’t care what anyone said,
everything in this drawer was precious and she was going to take it with
her. The Chinese box was the most precious of all. There was a secret
way of opening it. If you didn’t know the trick, it just stayed shut.
She opened it now. There was the pearl brooch which her godmother had
bestowed on her at her baptism, after which she departed to Australia
and never took any more notice. There was a pin with a blue glass bird
on it, and a string of beads made out of bright red seeds with a black
spot at one end. There was a silver thimble that had belonged to her
grandmother, and a coin with a peacock on it. There was a blue Venetian
bead.

She didn’t want to look at it, but her eyes became fixed. She hadn’t
forgotten about it, but she had locked it away. Now it was there in
front of her with the gold and silver flakes catching the light. She put
out a finger and touched it. There it was, quite solid and real. Why
hadn’t she left it lying on the grass verge in Vicarage Lane? Why hadn’t
she thrown it away in the fields, or on the road? Why had she brought it
home? She had a dreadful feeling that none of these things could be
escaped from. There was something about the bead that fascinated her.
Slowly, reluctantly she picked it up and set it on the palm of her hand.
As she turned to get the light upon it she saw that the door was open,
and that Lydia Crewe stood on the threshold looking in.

There hadn’t been any sound at all. The door had been shut, and now it
was open. There hadn’t been anyone there. Now there was Lydia Crewe, all
tall and black, with a black scarf over her head and a cloak that came
down to her feet. It was a quite dreadful moment, like something out of
the worst kind of dream. Jenny stiffened herself against it. There are
people who collapse when they are frightened, and there are people who
get angry. Jenny was of the people who get angry. Under Miss Crewe’s
cold stare her colour flamed and her eyes blazed. Words were jerked out
of her.

“What do you want?”

Lydia Crewe came into the room and shut the door.

“What are you doing out of bed like this?”

“I got up.”

“So I see.” Lydia’s tone was cold and measured. The look was dark.
“Where did you get that bead?”

“I found it.”

“Where?”

Jenny went back a step. She closed her hand upon the bead and put it
behind her.

“I just found it.”

“And I asked you where.”

“Why do you want to know?”

“Why do you not want to tell me? Shall I tell you? Because you have been
getting out of the house at night and running about, you don’t care to
say where.”

Jenny’s eyes met hers and wouldn’t give way. She was made of harder
stuff than Rosamond. When people tried to bully her it got her back up
and she didn’t care. There was defiance between them, and for a faint
faraway moment there was something in Lydia Crewe which felt a spark of
pride. Jenny had the Crewe blood, if she hadn’t the name. Something
stirred and was gone again. She went on harshly.

“You must be quite aware that this sort of thing can’t continue. I don’t
intend it to continue. I have made all the arrangements, and you will
have to go to school. Rosamond will take you there immediately.”

“I don’t believe it!”

Miss Crewe said coldly,

“Rosamond should have told you. But of course she thinks she knows best.
I advise you to be sensible and to make the most of the advantages I
shall be giving you. Since you will have your living to earn, it is very
important to make up for all the time you have lost. And now give me
that bead!”

As the dark figure advanced, Jenny could go back no farther. The chest
of drawers was behind her, and the wall upon her right. What she could
do she did. With her hand clenched on the bead she dodged an
outstretched arm and ran towards the window. When she was a yard away
from it her hand came up and the bead went flying. It was all over in a
moment. The blinding anger that was in Lydia Crewe was like lightning in
the room.

But there was no thunder. That formidable will could hold it back, and
did. There was a terrible silence. Jenny leaned on the window-sill, the
cold night air about her. Her heart knocked at her side. Lydia Crewe
went to the door and took the key. Then she went out, and the door was
shut without sound or haste. The sound came afterwards—the little sound
of the key turning in the lock and shutting Jenny in.




                               CHAPTER 33


Lucy Cunningham sat behind her locked door. She had gone up early, but
she had not undressed. She was waiting for something to happen, she did
not know what. The feeling that she must wait was heavy and cold inside
her. It wasn’t a thing about which she could think or reason, it was
something felt and to be endured. Like fear, or grief. It was fear
itself. With what remained of her conscious thought she tried to cover
it up. Nicholas would be coming home—she wouldn’t be alone with Henry
any more. When she had heard Nicholas come in and lock the door she
would go to bed, and perhaps she would sleep. And in the morning
everything would be different.

There are always some to whom the morning does not come. She could
almost have thought that someone had said that aloud—here in the room
with her. There wasn’t anyone of course. It was only her own frightened
mind playing tricks. She got up and began to move about. It was a
mistake to sit and listen to the silence. The church clock struck eleven
... and then the quarter ... and the half hour—

Nicholas was late. She wondered what was keeping him. He had never been
as late as this before, not at Dalling Grange. Why, everyone must have
gone home hours ago. She felt as if she could not stay here waiting any
longer. If anything was going to happen, it was better to let it happen
and get it over. The sensible everyday Lucy Cunningham spoke in a
sensible everyday voice and asked her what she was afraid of. Or of
whom. Since there was only one other person in the house, there was the
answer—

Henry.

Put like that, it shocked her into courage. She couldn’t be afraid of
Henry—not really. She had let her nerves take charge and frighten her
into a nightmare. And the way to come broad awake was to go down and do
what she ought to have done hours ago—have it out with Henry—tell him
that someone had tried to trip her, and see what he made of it.

She went to the washstand, sponged her face, and felt the better for it.
The dreadful helpless feeling was gone. But she put on the landing light
and stood looking down the long flight of the stairs before she set a
foot upon it. And she put on a second light in the hall. Then she went
along to the study and opened the door. Nothing could have been more
ordinary than the littered table, the strong overhead light, and Henry
with his back to her leaning forward above the specimens laid out before
him. The table was so large that it took up nearly half the room, but
every inch of it was occupied. There was a tray of fine instruments with
a row of little bottles, there were cardboard sheets upon which were
displayed the corpses of moths, butterflies, caterpillars, and spiders.
There appeared to be rather more of the spiders than of any of the other
creatures. Most of them were large, and some of them were hairy. Even at
this moment Lucy found herself capable of a shudder. Things with more
than four legs had that effect on her—she didn’t like them, and she
never would. But as far as Henry himself went there was nothing that was
in the least out of the way. With one of those fine instruments in his
hand he was bending over the table and doing something to the corpse of
the largest and most repulsive of the spiders. It might have been any
evening of any day, and the specimen might have been a butterfly, a
moth, or even a lizard or a frog, but the general effect would have been
the same, and the prevailing smell of antiseptic.

At the sound of the opening door Henry Cunningham made his accustomed
protest.

“If you don’t mind—I’m busy.”

Lucy had often minded before, but this time she was making no bones
about it.

“I’m sorry, Henry, but I’ve really got to speak to you.”

He said in a mild worried voice,

“Some other time, don’t you think?”

“No, Henry—now.”

He sighed, laid down the fine instrument, and sat back in his chair,
where he pushed his glasses up and ran a hand across his eyes.

“I thought you were in bed.”

She went round to the other side of the table and pulled up a chair.

“Well, I’m not.”

He sighed again.

“So I see. But it is very late, and I am really very busy. I have these
specimens to get off to a Belgian correspondent. He is giving a lecture
on spiders, and I am able to supply him with the specimens he needs for
it. Slides will be prepared and thrown upon the screen greatly
magnified. The series illustrates Lelong’s theory—but that won’t
interest you.”

Lucy Cunningham said, “No.”

Since he appeared to be about to relapse into concentration upon the
spider, she repeated her previous remark, only in a louder and firmer
tone,

“Henry, I must speak to you.”

He sat back again and said,

“I am really very busy. What is it?”

“Henry, someone tried to kill me last night.”

His spectacles were half way up his forehead. He peered at her and
blinked.

“Someone tried to kill you! What do you mean?”

As she leaned towards him, one of her hands was on the table. They could
both see that it was shaking. She snatched it back into her lap and said
in a voice that he would hardly have known,

“Someone tied a string across the stairs. Then a bell rang in the hall.
I thought it was the telephone, but it could have been an alarm clock or
any electric bell. I was running to answer it, and the cord caught me
just above the ankle. The mark is still there. I had my hand on the
balustrade, or I couldn’t have saved myself. If I had gone down head
first upon those flagstones I should probably have been killed. Don’t
you think so?”

Henry looked bewildered.

“My dear Lucy!”

“Don’t you think so, Henry?”

He had taken up the fine steel instrument. He laid it down again and
flexed his fingers. Perhaps they had closed upon it with a cramping
pressure. He said,

“Someone must have left a piece of string lying about and you caught
your foot—Nicholas—or Mrs. Hubbard. Very careless—very dangerous. I
remember in Constantinople—”

She said abruptly,

“This is Hazel Green. The string was garden twine. It wasn’t left lying
about. It was stretched across the stairs and fastened to the balusters.
It wasn’t there when I went to bed. After that there were only two other
people in the house—you and Nicholas. I want to know which of you tied
that string across the stairs.”

“Lucy—”

“One of you put it there. If it wasn’t you, it was Nicholas. If it
wasn’t Nicholas, it was you. I want to know why.”

“You don’t know what you are saying.”

“I ought to—I’ve had all day to think about it. Someone tried to kill
me.”

“Lucy, you can’t be well! Don’t you think if you were to go to
bed—perhaps a cup of tea and an aspirin—”

All at once the fear touched her again. He was just Henry messing about
with his specimens. But some of the things in those little bottles were
poison—A cup of tea and an aspirin—She heard him say,

“You’d much better get to bed. I’ll make you some tea and bring it up.”

There was concern in his voice. Concern about what? She didn’t know. He
had never made a cup of tea for anyone else in his life. He forgot his
own meals unless he was called to them. She remembered picking up a book
at a railway bookstall, and it was called _Death in the Cup_. The row of
little bottles swam before her eyes. She took hold of the edge of the
table and stood up.

“Yes, I’ll go to bed. I can’t sleep. I won’t have any tea—it might keep
me awake—I’ll just get to bed.”

But on her way to the door she turned.

“Why is Nicholas so late?”

Henry Cunningham was already adjusting his glasses, picking up the long
sliver of steel. He said vaguely,

“Nicholas—he’s often later than this—”

“But he telephoned from Dalling Grange and said he had been kept.”

“Oh, well, he will have gone on somewhere.”

He bent forward over the table, and she went out of the room.

As she stood in the hall, it came to her that she had only to lift the
telephone receiver and she could speak to anyone she liked—to Mrs.
Stubbs at the Holly Tree—to Marian Merridew and her friend, that little
Miss Silver—to Lydia Crewe. She could say what she chose to say—that
she was ill, that she was nervous—that she had had a fall, a fainting
fit. None of them lived more than a few hundred yards away—any one of
them would come ... Would Lydia? She turned her back on that, and in the
next moment on all of it. To make herself the talk of the place—to
rouse a friend from her sleep because she couldn’t sleep herself? It was
too late, much too late for that. The church clock struck midnight as
she went slowly up to her room.




                               CHAPTER 34


Miss Silver, conscious of having neglected a kind hostess, did her best
to make amends. A good deal to her relief, she found on returning to the
drawing-room that Mrs. Merridew had fallen into a comfortable doze from
which she did not immediately awake. When at last she opened her eyes
and sat up she really had no idea of the time, and it was not until
quite half an hour later that she looked at the clock and exclaimed.
Even after that there was some lingering conversation. By the time the
round of the house had been made and doors and windows tested it was
well on the way towards midnight.

Refreshed by her sleep, Mrs. Merridew was pleasurably shocked. She
really didn’t know when she had been up so late. From an irresponsible
past she recalled an illicit feast in the dormitory at school, and how
Cecilia had so narrowly escaped being caught.

“Do you remember, Maud?”

Miss Silver remembered—disapproval tempered by indulgence.

“It is all a very long time ago.”

Mrs. Merridew sighed.

“Yes—I suppose so. But sometimes it doesn’t seem as if it were. We
haven’t really changed very much, have we—any of us? Not in ourselves.
Of course we don’t look the same—but then you change so gradually that
you don’t notice it. But I really should have known you anywhere—and
Cecilia too, though we used to call her Cissie and she has grown rather
stout.”

The good-nights finally said, Miss Silver closed her bedroom door and
prepared to embark upon the settled routine of undressing. Advancing to
the bedside table, she took off the watch which she wore pinned to the
left-hand side of her dress, wound it, and laid it down. The next step
should have been the removal of the hair-net which she wore in the day
and its replacement by the much stronger sort which she assumed at
night. No matter at what hour alarums and excursions might occur—and
Miss Silver’s experience had included some of a quite violent
nature—she had never yet been seen with a single hair out of place. The
arrangement at night would be different, the plaits a little tighter,
but order and neatness would prevail. Tonight she had got as far as
putting up a hand to remove the hairpins which controlled the net, but
at that point something stopped her. The hand came down again, the
hairpins remained where they were.

She stood where she was for several minutes and became immersed in
thought. It might be Marian Merridew’s talk about the old days when a
rule could still be a challenge, or it might be something a good deal
more important than that. There was a sense of uneasiness, of urgency.
She looked at the comfortable bed which was waiting for her, and knew
that it could offer her no rest until this disturbance in her thought
was quieted. It came to her that there was a not too difficult course
which might afford relief. Marian Merridew was not at all deaf, but she
did not possess the acute hearing that Miss Silver herself enjoyed. Her
bedroom looked to the back of the house. It had a delightful view of the
garden. There would be no difficulty about a careful descent of the
stairs or the opening of the front door. It would, in fact, be perfectly
possible to leave the house without having to embark upon an explanation
of her movements.

At this point in her meditations Miss Silver picked up her watch and
pinned it on. After which she assumed her coat, her second best hat, and
a pair of outdoor shoes. Fastening the aged fur tippet, cherished
companion of many winters, firmly about her neck, she extinguished the
light in her bedroom and found her way down the stairs and out of the
house without making any sound at all. The air was cold, but there was
no sign of rain. Miss Silver felt gratitude for her tippet and for the
fact that the night was fine, but even if it had been raining heavens
hard, she knew now that her errand would have taken her out in it.
Before she could sleep she must at any rate walk past the Dower House
and look up at the windows. She did not know what she was to do when she
got there. By now the house should all be dark. Darkness did not mean
safety. A phrase from the Scriptures slipped into her mind—“They that
are drunken are drunken in the night.” There was more than one sort of
drunkenness. Men could be drunk with pride, with passion, or with power.
They could be drunken with hatred, or with the lust of gain.

She walked down the dark and silent street and made no plan. If there
was something for her to do, when the time came she would know what it
was. The entrance to the Dower House was not more than a few yards away
when she heard a step behind her. There was no moon, but the night was
clear. Someone large loomed up. The height and breadth induced her to
take a chance with his name.

“Mr. Lester—”

Even in his astonishment he could not mistake her voice.

“Miss Silver! What are you doing here?”

She said composedly,

“I might ask you that, might I not?”

He laughed.

“I didn’t feel like sleeping. I thought I would come out and walk.”

He wondered if she would guess him fool enough to go up to Crewe House
and gaze at the dark square of Rosamond’s window, appropriately barred
since Miss Crewe would not have considered it safe to sleep on the
ground-floor without taking every precaution. He did not really mind
whether Miss Silver thought him a fool or not. A bridegroom is entitled
to wear motley if he will. He was in the mood to shout Rosamond’s name
abroad, or to carve it on the trees. This was his hour—and hers. He
heard Miss Silver say,

“I have been feeling extremely uneasy about Miss Cunningham.”

He was taken completely by surprise. Rosamond and himself—Jenny and
Miss Crewe—to any of these his response would have been instant. But
Lucy Cunningham—He stared through the dark and said,

“Why?”

“I believe that an attempt was made on her life last night. I did not
feel that I could sleep without coming as far as the house.”

He said bluntly, “What can you do?”

“I do not know. I shall at least feel that I have done what I can.”

They were standing still in the shadow at the side of the road, their
voices muted, the last cottage behind them and all the village asleep.
He said quickly,

“What do you mean? There’s been an attempt on her life!”

She told him plainly and precisely.

“But that would be someone in the house.”

“Yes, Mr. Lester.”

He gave a faint half laugh.

“That damp dreep Henry! I can imagine his being crooked. He’s the sort
to slide down the drain, but I shouldn’t have thought he would hurt a
fly. That leaves Nicholas. She brought him up. It’s not pretty.”

“Crime very seldom is, Mr. Lester.”

“What do you propose to do?”

“Miss Cunningham was kind enough to take me over the house this
afternoon. Her room is at the back. There are two windows. She informed
me that she always slept with them open. If her light is out and they
are open now it will be some indication that things are normal. In the
ordinary way I should not anticipate that a second attempt would be made
so soon, but there might be some special reason for silencing her
without delay, and I could not disregard my own uneasiness.”

Some of it seemed to have communicated itself to Craig. He had found
himself startled, sceptical, and now a good deal disturbed. He said,

“I’ll come with you if I may.”

There was a slight but significant pause. He was being weighed. A laugh
just touched his voice as he said,

“I shan’t make any noise. I can walk like a cat if I want to.”

“Then I shall be very glad of your company.”

The Dower House had no drive leading up to it. It stood fronting onto
the road with a stone wall screening it and the Victorian edition of a
glazed passage covering the bare dozen feet from the gate to the front
door. As Craig lifted the latch and stood aside for Miss Silver to pass,
the church clock struck the quarter after midnight.




                               CHAPTER 35


The house appeared to be in complete darkness. On either side of the
passage running up to the front door the windows on both floors showed
nothing. A narrow glass door on the left led from the passage into the
garden. It was locked on the inside. Miss Silver producing a very
serviceable torch from her coat pocket, the key was located and turned.
Feeling a good deal like a burglar, Craig preceded her, and found
himself on a gravel path between two banks of shrubs. Closing the door
behind her, Miss Silver followed him. She extinguished the torch, put it
back in her pocket, and began to walk along the path with as much
composure as if she had been an invited guest.

At the corner of the house the path turned, the shrubbery widened out. A
blackness of trees appeared behind it. There was still no light
anywhere. The mass of the house towered over them like a cliff. Craig
bent to say, “Do we go all the way round?” and could discern that she
inclined her head.

It was at this moment that they heard the sound. It came from in front
of them and to the left—the small crisp sound of a snapping twig. He
felt Miss Silver’s hand on his arm, drawing him away from the path and
towards the house. A couple of steps, and they stood amongst bushes,
listening. Someone was coming through the shrubbery on the other side of
the path. If it had not been for the snapped twig, they would all have
come together a little farther on. Miss Silver stood motionless
remembering the lie of the land. This wall of the house did not run
straight back from front to rear. It broke, to form a small paved
courtyard, rather damp and gloomy at this time of the year, and with
what she considered an excessive number of creepers. She remembered an
old magnolia, a good deal of Virginia creeper, and one or two dark
cypresses growing far too close to the house.

Someone came out of the shrubbery on the left and entered the courtyard.
Miss Silver’s hand came down with a warning pressure upon Craig’s wrist.
Then, quite soundlessly, she was gone. He could be in no doubt but that
he had been told to remain where he was—the clumsy man whose big feet
would naturally betray him if he moved. Since he had served as a
paratrooper and time and again risked more than his own life upon his
silence, he could afford a private grin over that. Nevertheless he stood
where he was, since it wasn’t his show, and in any event two people made
more noise than one.

Time goes slowly in the dark. It goes slowly anywhere when you wait and
wonder what is going on. When something stirred in the gloom ahead of
him he stepped to meet it. Miss Silver’s hand came out and touched him.
As he bent to her, she said in an almost soundless voice,

“Someone has just come from Crewe House and entered the Dower House by a
concealed door. I believe that we should follow.”

“How do we get in?”

If it was breaking and entering, he was definitely prepared to put the
male foot down and keep it there. In a good cause any woman would break
any law with an unruffled conscience, but he was not prepared to
celebrate his wedding by being arrested.

Miss Silver’s reply was lucid and succinct,

“She unlocked the door, but I did not hear her lock it again.”

He found a Gilbertian echo in his mind—“Who the deuce may _she_ be?”

Lucy Cunningham? But why the melodramatic secret door?

Jenny? He wouldn’t put it past her. But how would she come by an illicit
key?

It wouldn’t be either of these—oh, no. It would be Lydia Crewe. And
that set such a danger signal ringing that he hadn’t a word to say.

Miss Silver kept her hand on his arm. The stones of the courtyard were
damp and soft with moss. Where the added blackness of a tall cypress
pressed against the dark wall of the house she stepped before him. Her
hand groped, found what it felt for, and reaching back, invited him to
follow. There was no more than room to pass. He scraped the wall and was
buffeted by twigs and branches. There was a cold aromatic smell. And
then they were in a narrow, a very narrow passage. He was to learn
afterwards that it ran between two of the rooms. His shoulders touched
it on either side. He wondered how many cobwebs he would collect before
they were through. The place reeked of dust.

Ahead of them there was a line of light. It cut the darkness like an
incandescent wire—as narrow and sharp as that. As they came up to it,
he saw that there was a door—no, not a door, a sliding panel. Someone
had gone through that way and pushed it to carelessly, leaving the
shining crack. Where light can pass sound passes. Lydia Crewe’s deep,
harsh voice spoke from beyond the panel.

“Really Henry—what a story! Lucy must be going off her head!”

It was Henry Cunningham who answered her. He sounded nervous and
fretful.

“She says there was a string across the stairs. She said it nearly
tripped her up. She thinks there was only Nicholas in the house—and
me.”

Her voice came leaping at him, strong with anger.

“And I suppose you told her I was here!”

She must have made a move towards him. The chair grated as he pushed it
back. The picture of a man who cowers from a blow flashed into Craig’s
mind, but he didn’t think that the blow would have been a physical one.
As the chair scraped, the nervous voice tripped over itself with hurry.

“No, no—of course I didn’t. I didn’t say a word. She doesn’t know you
come. I’ve never told her that. Or anything.”

Lydia Crewe said,

“You’d better not. It would be the end if you did.”

“I don’t see why.”

“She knows too much already.”

“She doesn’t know anything from me.”

She said with impatience,

“What does it matter how she knows it! If she knows anything at all,
it’s too dangerous!”

“I don’t know what you mean. What did you do last night? You went
through into the house. What did you do? This story of Lucy’s—why
should you try to trip her up?”

“Perhaps I thought she would be better out of circulation—for a time.
Perhaps I thought it would be good for her to have a nice long rest.”

He must have stared at her, for she said with a scornful laugh,

“Don’t look at me like that! My dear Henry, you had really better leave
all this to me. Keep your head in the sand and don’t ask questions. You
are very good at your own job, and you had much better stick to it. Pack
the Melbury rubies inside those disgusting spiders of yours, and we’ll
get them out of the country under everyone’s very nose. Your Belgian
correspondent is a godsend. He can give another lecture after a
reasonable interval, and we can get the diamonds off too. It was those
big rubies which were the bother. I give you marks for thinking of the
spiders.”

He said, “Yes, yes,” in a peevish way. Then, with a sudden energy, “Why
should you want to get Lucy out of the way?”

There was the sound of a chair being moved. It seemed Miss Crewe was
tired of standing. She said in a conversational tone,

“I thought I told you not to ask questions.”

“I’ve got to ask this one.”

“Well then, here is your answer! And don’t blame me if you don’t like
it. Lucy knows too much. She may know enough to ruin us.”

“What does she know?”

“Mrs. Bolder found that Holiday woman in my room on Sunday afternoon.
She must have picked up an envelope there—a very important envelope. It
came into Lucy’s hands afterwards, and she brought it back to me. Anyone
who saw what was inside that envelope could ruin us all. Well, you know
what Lucy is.”

Henry Cunningham’s voice said, “She is my sister.”

“She’s a babbling fool. She has only to open her mouth once and it’s the
end for all of us.”

“Why should she open her mouth? She is your friend, isn’t she—she
always has been?”

She made some quick movement.

“Henry, you _are_ a fool! She wouldn’t do it purposely—I’m not saying
that she would. I don’t suppose the Holiday woman took that envelope
purposely. It must have slipped down the side of my chair. Mrs. Bolder
found her poking about there, and I expect she had it in her hand and
just stuffed it into a pocket.” She went on in a measured way. “Yes,
that is what must have happened, because when Lucy met her at the bottom
of the drive she was tugging to get her handkerchief out from under her
coat, and the envelope came out too and fell down between them. Lucy
picked it up, saw that it had my name on it, and said that she would
take it up to the house and give it to me. Which she did. It was—” She
paused and drew a long breath. “It was something of a shock.”

“Why?”

“If you must know, there was my first sketch of the Melbury necklace
inside that envelope. I work to scale, but I make a rough sketch first.
And that envelope was open. It was a used one, and I had pushed the
sketch inside. Someone had come into the room—I think it was Rosamond.
Just one silly accidental happening after another!”

“I don’t see what all that has got to do with Lucy.”

She said with an odd quietness,

“You never do see very much, do you? Now listen! The envelope was open.
If Lucy took one look, just one look inside it—”

“She wouldn’t!”

“Are you prepared to gamble on that? I’m not! Have you ever thought
about going to prison, Henry? You like wandering about—when you like,
where you like—picking up your moths, your butterflies, your cocoons.
That spider everybody thought was extinct—you got a lot of pleasure out
of finding a couple of specimens and breeding from them, didn’t you? You
like your easy life—no one to harry you, and nothing to do for it
except a little of the one thing you really are good at. That is all
that is asked of you, and it is all you need to know anything about.”

He said on a shuddering breath,

“Miss Holiday—”

“Well, Henry?”

“She’s dead—” Then, after a frightening pause, “Like Maggie—”

“Really, Henry—what a thing to say! Maggie got bored with Hazel Green
and those exigeant parents, and went off, as no doubt she would have
said, to better herself. As to Miss Holiday, she was always touched in
the head, and I’m afraid she got the rough side of Mrs. Bolder’s tongue
on Sunday. A very faithful creature, Mrs. Bolder, and properly
scandalized at anyone poking about in my room. It was, of course,
unfortunate that Miss Holiday should be upset to the point of committing
suicide. Or was it? I wonder!”

“Lydia—”

“My dear Henry, don’t you think you have asked enough questions? There
is an excellent proverb about the shoemaker sticking to his last. You
stick to your specimens! Miss Holiday committed suicide, and that is all
there is to it.”




                               CHAPTER 36


Nicholas came in through the gate and up to the front door. It was very
late and he had walked from Dalling Grange, but it was only now, on his
own doorstep as he slipped his key into the lock, that he was aware of
fatigue. It was a purely physical sensation separate from himself, from
the Nicholas who had emerged from a nightmare. Until the whole thing was
over he had never let himself relax from taking just the one inescapable
step which lay before him, looking neither to the right hand nor to the
left. It was not until now, when the strain was over, that he could let
himself think of Henry and feel ashamed because he had not dared to
think of him before. If Brown hadn’t cracked, sticking to his superior
pinnacle until it looked as if he had an unshakable footing there and
then suddenly, horribly plunging from it, he supposed that the nightmare
might have been going on still. It came to him there and then how heavy
in cross-examination are the odds against the guilty man, and how with
one single slip he may be precipitated into disaster. It is only the
bedrock truth that cannot be shaken.

He knew now how much afraid he had been. About Henry. With every
stammering word of Brown’s, he had waited for Henry Cunningham’s name.
And it hadn’t come. It hadn’t come. Nicholas was to have been framed to
account for the leakage, but Henry didn’t come into it at all. Things
had been getting too hot, and a scapegoat had had to be found. Nicholas
had been cast for the part. The incriminating notes had been planted. If
he had done anything else than what he did do, disaster would have been
sure enough. But he had gone straight to Burlington. And poor old
ramshackle Henry didn’t come into it at all. He wondered now why he
should ever have thought that he might. Something about the way he
drifted through life—something that would make him an easy tool—the
lost twenty years—

All these thoughts were in his mind as he turned his key in the lock.
The door swung in, swung back. He let it go, and it made more noise than
he had meant it to. There was a light still on in the hall. He turned to
shoot the bolt.

Back in the study Lydia looked up.

“What was that?”

Henry Cunningham gazed in his vague way.

“It will be Nicholas—Lucy said—he wasn’t in—”

“Is that door locked?”

“Oh, no—I never lock it.”

She might have been young again, she moved so quickly. The key turned
before he had finished speaking. Her breath came sharply. It was a
moment before she could control it. She came back to the table. Then,
almost soundlessly,

“I didn’t think even you would be such a fool.”

He looked mildly through his glasses.

“He won’t come here—he never does.”

“Suppose he did?”

“He would think it very odd that I should have locked the door.”

“Keep your voice down!”

She went back to the door, unlocked it, set it ajar, and looked down the
hall. There was a light in the dining-room. The door stood open. She
said over her shoulder,

“Does Lucy leave a tray for him?”

“If he is late.”

Lydia Crewe shut and locked the door again. Henry said,

“You needn’t do that. He won’t come here.”

“I’m not taking chances. And you shouldn’t. Where are the rubies?”

“Oh, in one of the drawers.”

“Just lying about loose, I suppose!”

“No, I don’t think so. I believe—in fact I’m sure—I put them.... Now
where did I put them? No, not this drawer—it must have been one of the
others—”

He was pulling drawers in and out as he spoke, jerking them out and
jerking them in again. Her voice was a mere bitter thread.

“An unlocked drawer! Do you know what they are worth?”

He said peevishly,

“I never lock anything up. It’s much safer not to. And I should be sure
to lose my keys. Yes, here they are. I remember now—I put them in the
middle of the cotton wool for packing the spiders. They are perfectly
safe there. Neither Lucy nor Mrs. Hubbard would touch one of my drawers
if you paid them. There was a live grass snake once, and Mrs. Hubbard
wouldn’t do the room for weeks. So the stones are perfectly safe.”

She stood there looking down at him, frowning. His vagueness had always
irritated her. It was a danger, but there were moments when she could
see that it was an asset too. Who was going to suspect a man so
genuinely absorbed in scientific pursuits, so careless with his
belongings—everything just left lying—not even a locked-up drawer? Too
much had been left lying a year ago, and Maggie Bell had had to go. She
wasn’t squeamish, but these things were a risk, and it was Henry’s
carelessness that had made it necessary to take the risk.

She maintained her frowning silence. She was not at the moment in a
position to rebuke him. She had been careless herself, and the risk had
had to be taken all over again with Miss Holiday. And this time with
much more annoying consequences, since it left her short of a daily
maid. And no one anxious to fill the gap. She had had to fall back on
that half-witted Winnie Taylor who went about looking like something out
of an asylum, though she wasn’t too bad at her work.

She pushed in the drawer which held the Melbury rubies in an untidy mess
of cotton wool and said,

“Well, I must go. Give me time to get to the end of the passage before
you unlock the door. And you had better get off to bed yourself. You
look tired.”

He passed a hand across his forehead.

“Yes—perhaps I will. Lydia, you’re quite sure about Maggie?”

“Of course I’m sure! She had just got to the point where she had to have
a change. She told me so, and I gave her the money to go away. But you
had better keep that to yourself. There—does that make you feel
better?”

He took off his glasses and wiped them. She found ridiculous that his
eyes should be full of tears.

“Yes—yes—I think it does. And, Lydia, you said this was to be the last
job.”

“Of course. Only don’t worry. It’s not good for you.”

He said, “No, it isn’t. Sometimes—I do—feel ill—”

Her hand came down on his shoulder and pressed it.

“Just go off to bed and leave everything to me. All you’ve got to think
about is your spiders.”

On the other side of the panel Miss Silver had been moving inch by inch.
The passage went on past the opening to the study. It would be
interesting to know where it came out, but this was neither the time nor
the place for anything which did not bear directly upon the present
emergency. Craig followed her, she moved to leave the way clear for Miss
Crewe’s retreat. They had indeed no more than a bare margin of safety
when the panel slid and a rectangle of light lay on the passage floor.
If Lydia Crewe had looked to her right she might have seen them. She
held an electric torch. If she had turned it in their direction she must
have done so. She looked neither to right nor left. As Henry shut the
panel behind her, she followed the beam of the torch along the passage
by the way that she had come.

When all sound of her going had died away Craig bent to Miss Silver’s
ear.

“Well, what do we do next?”

She answered him, not in words but by a light pressure upon his arm, in
obedience to which he began to move before her down the passage. But
when they came to the door by which they had entered they found it
locked against them. Craig allowed himself an almost noiseless laugh.

“Well—what now? I suppose we go back and see where the other end comes
out. Have you any idea of where that may be? You know the geography of
the house, and I don’t.”

She said in her usual composed manner,

“It would be in the hall or in the drawing-room, I should think. Both
have panelling of a character very similar to that of the study.”

They retraced their steps. As they approached the panel which had been
ajar, it was momentarily startling to see that light still came from it.
Henry Cunningham had closed it—they had heard the click of the spring
from where they stood, a yard or two away on the other side. But almost
as Craig touched Miss Silver in a warning gesture they could both see
that the light now came, not from the edge of the panel, but from a
round knothole some five foot up from the floor. There was no doubt
about its purpose. Anyone who approached through the passage could make
sure that the coast was clear before stepping into the room.

Miss Silver had to raise herself a little in order to make this peephole
available. She had a good view of the writing-table, and of Henry
Cunningham leaning over it. In front of him on a sheet of white paper
lay the spider which he had been dissecting, a sight which she found
repulsive in the extreme. In his right hand he held a pair of tweezers
with which with meticulous care he was inserting a large red stone into
the cavity which had been made in the spider’s body. She could not doubt
for a moment that she was looking at one of Lady Melbury’s lost
rubies—probably, from its size, the central stone of her diamond and
ruby necklace. It disappeared into the body of the spider and the
tweezers were laid down. Another small instrument was then dipped into a
saucer in which there was something black and glutinous, and drop by
drop the stone was covered and the body rounded out again. Henry
Cunningham’s hand was steady, his absorption complete.

After a minute Miss Silver yielded her place to Craig. Both received the
same impression. For this time at least, Henry Cunningham was in a world
of his own. It was a world in which he was hampered by neither doubt nor
efficiency, a world in which there was no moral law and therefore no
crime. There was only his own skill and the means of exercising it. The
moment in which the thought of Maggie Bell had troubled him, the moment
in which he had said of Lucy Cunningham, “She is my sister,” belonged to
a different world altogether, and it was one from which he shrank, and
from which he must at any cost escape.

Miss Silver began to move forward along the passage. It came out, as she
supposed it might, in one of the darker corners of the hall, and the
panel slid as silently as the other had done. Lydia Crewe would have
seen to that. There was still a light burning. It striped the darkness
as the panel slid back, seeming much brighter than it really was. The
pressure of Craig’s hand upon the wood stopped suddenly. The dining-room
light clicked out and Nicholas Cunningham came into view. The gap in the
panel showed his easy, confident air. He crossed the hall and went
soft-foot up the stairs. A door opened and shut on the landing above.




                               CHAPTER 37


Miss Silver suggested that they should leave by way of the back door. In
Miss Cunningham’s probable state of mind she would not be able to recall
with any certainty whether she had ever locked it. Besides, by the time
she came to consider the matter at all too many other things would have
happened for it to be of any importance.

They came out on to the paved yard and by way of a gravelled path to a
garden gate. As Craig closed it behind him, the church clock gave four
warning strokes to announce the hour, and then struck one. The night air
was cool and soft. After the dusty passage and the airless shut-in
feeling of the kitchen and scullery it had a living quality. Craig
filled his lungs with it. To creep by stealth through another man’s
house in the middle of the night was not an experience that he had
enjoyed, or one that he would wish to repeat. And where was it going to
land them? That was what he wanted to know. As far as he could make out
they were very comfortably situated between the devil and the deep sea.
If Miss Silver made tracks for a telephone and informed Frank Abbott or
the county police that she had located the Melbury rubies, the balloon
was bound to go up. That wouldn’t have mattered if Lydia Crewe wasn’t
bound to go up with it, in which case he could see that he was going to
have trouble with Rosamond, who was practically certain to say that she
couldn’t marry him tomorrow. No, not tomorrow—tomorrow had already
become today. It had become his wedding day, and he saw Rosamond
slipping away from him into some damned nonsensical Cloud-cuckoo-land
where she wouldn’t marry him at all. If he could only get Miss Silver to
hold her hand until after half past ten, as far as he was concerned she
could go ahead and have the whole lot of them arrested.

They walked, and the light moving air went with them. He said,

“What are you going to do?”

She stopped and turned to face him.

“I do not know. I think we must go back.”

“Into the house?”

“No—that should not be necessary. But I am not easy about Miss
Cunningham. I believe that her life is in danger.”

“Her life!”

“Mr. Lester, you heard the conversation between Miss Crewe and Mr.
Cunningham. Did it leave you in any doubt as to her intentions with
regard to his sister?”

“I suppose not. It seems incredible all the same.”

She said soberly,

“Murder must always seem incredible to the normal mind. The murderer has
lost his balance. His own desires, his own plans, his own safety have
come to outweigh normal control and the moral law. With each further
step he becomes more justified in his own eyes, more inflated with his
own importance, and more certain that he can carry out his plans with
success. This would not be Miss Crewe’s first step into crime. Whether
or not she took a personal part in the removal of Maggie Bell and the
death of Miss Holiday, I have not the slightest doubt that she was
cognizant of both those murders. We may never know just what happened to
Maggie, but working as she did at the Dower House, it seems probable
that she saw something which might have been dangerous if she were given
time to put two and two together and think about the result. It is quite
certain that this is what happened in the case of Miss Holiday. In Miss
Crewe’s absence, she went prying into her room. Surprised by Mrs.
Bolder, she pushed a chance-come envelope into her overall pocket. As
Miss Crewe herself suggested, it had probably slipped down between the
seat and the side of a chair. The whole thing was due to no more than
idle curiosity and to the instinctive movements of a maid who is tidying
a room. She would shake up the cushions and run her hand round the side
of any chair which had been occupied. But you know what that envelope
contained—a sketch of Lady Melbury’s diamond and ruby necklace. The
first sketch in fact from which a copy was to be prepared.”

“Yes, I heard that. I don’t know anything about the necklace. Has it
been stolen?”

“Yes, Mr. Lester. A few weeks ago Lady Melbury discovered that the
necklace in her possession was a copy. Neither she nor anyone else had
the least idea as to when the substitution had been made. I gather that
she would not have made the matter public, but Lord Melbury has been
less discreet, and it is now an open secret. With the result that half
the county believes Lady Melbury to have sold the necklace herself.”

Craig whistled softly.

“I see. A very pretty kettle of fish! And the unfortunate Miss Holiday
threatened to upset it.”

“Just so. The envelope she picked up was open. It had Miss Crewe’s name
on it, and it contained a sketch of the Melbury necklace—the first
sketch for a detailed plan which would be drawn to scale for a jeweller
to work from. Any chance that Miss Holiday had seen it and would talk of
what she had seen was too dangerous to be risked. The poor woman dropped
the envelope when she pulled out her handkerchief, and Miss Cunningham
picked it up and returned it to her friend. In doing so she also came
under suspicion as a possible danger. She might not suspect her brother
or her friend. She would not intentionally give them away, but she has
an artless, affectionate mind and a tripping tongue. There was no
knowing what she might say—so there was a tripcord across the stairs.”

“And now?”

“I am afraid that Miss Crewe may return—not immediately, but at some
time during the night. She will give Mr. Henry and Mr. Nicholas enough
time to make sure that they are asleep, and then I think that there will
be another attempt on Miss Cunningham’s life. It is, at any rate, a
possibility which must not be neglected. Believe me, I feel very much
for your position in the matter. You would naturally wish to take Miss
Maxwell away before any arrest is made, but, in the circumstances, I
think you must see that there can be no delay in informing the police.”

He said, “No.”

Miss Silver resumed.

“The entrance to the passage should not be left unguarded. Miss Crewe
must not be allowed to reach Miss Cunningham. If you will remain on
guard there, I will go back to the White Cottage and ring up Inspector
Abbott.”




                               CHAPTER 38


Lydia Crewe made her way back by the winding path which threaded the two
shrubberies. She had no need of a torch. Her feet had taken this way so
often—by sunlight, twilight, moonlight, and in the dead of the night as
now. She knew every turn, every bush that brushed her shoulder, every
bough to which her head must stoop, every jutting root. She had walked
it when hope was high and the illusion of youth still lingered. She had
trodden it when hope was gone and her formidable will drove her along
another path from which there was no turning back.

She passed through the gap which separated the two gardens, and beyond
it under overarching trees to the gravel sweep before the house. The
door by which she would gain admittance was here, but Rosamond’s and
Jenny’s rooms and her own were on the farther side. She crossed the
front of the house, walking quickly and with no special precaution. All
these front rooms were empty, where they had once been filled with sons
and daughters, guests, and up in the attics the maids and men who served
them. No need to walk softly for the ghosts of a bygone splendour.

She turned the corner and came to the barred windows on the ground
floor—her own, Jenny’s, Rosamond’s. Her own were shut, Jenny’s and
Rosamond’s open. She stood by Jenny’s window and listened. There was no
sound at all. There had been time enough for her to cry away her temper
and fall asleep. It was from this window that Jenny had thrown the blue
Venetian bead. She switched on her torch and sent the beam travelling.

Immediately under the window a border set with wallflower and tulips
against the spring. The bead wouldn’t be there—Jenny had thrown it with
all her might. Nor would it be on the gravel path which continued round
the house. But beyond the path where the rock garden opened out, that
was the place to search. The beam went to and fro over moss which
carpeted the stones amongst neglected lavender, overgrown rosemary,
tangled rock rose, campanula and thyme. It crossed the pool in the
centre of the garden, the water too clouded, too muddy to see whether
the bead lay there or not. She thought it would hardly have come so far,
but these things were incalculable. If it was in the pool it would be
safe enough.

She came back from the garden slowly, letting the light go to and fro.
Tomorrow by daylight there would be a better chance, and at least if she
couldn’t find it, no one else would be likely to—there was always that.
She switched off the torch and heard a long sigh come out of the dark.
She said sharply, “Who’s there?” and it was a dead woman’s voice that
answered her.

“You won’t find it. It’s mine—you won’t find it.”

It was so faint that she could tell herself afterwards that she hadn’t
heard it. But whether she heard it or not, she knew the voice and she
knew what it said. She found herself pressed up against Jenny’s window,
holding to the bars, her heart shaking her. There was a rushing noise in
her ears. If the voice had spoken again she would not have heard it. But
it did not speak again.

Inside the room Jenny lay with her back to the window and a corner of
the pillow stuffed into her mouth to stifle the laughter which bubbled
up in her. She had done it really well. She had very nearly frightened
Aunt Lydia into a fit. Poor old Holiday was easy enough to do, with her
genteel accent and her whiny piny voice. Jenny thought she would very
nearly have had a fit herself if she had heard it like that in the dark
when she was looking for something which had belonged to a poor dead
thing.

All at once she _was_ frightened. The beam of the torch came into the
room. It struck the wall beyond her and caught the glass of a picture,
and then the shiny round disc at the end of it came dancing to and fro
about the bed. It was really horrid, but the worst part of it was that
she had begun to be frightened before the beam came in. It might have
been her own trick, or it might have been Aunt Lydia hating her out
there beyond the bars. But she was frightened before there was even the
faintest shimmer from the torch. She had been laughing, but the laughter
was gone. There was a choking sob in her throat, and tears were running
down into the pillow and soaking it.

The torch went away. Aunt Lydia’s footsteps went away. Everything was
nice and dark and quiet again. And then all of a sudden the darkness and
the quietness stopped being nice and began to terrify her. She slipped
out of bed and ran to the door, quickly in case there was something that
might be going to pounce—a black bat with ragged wings like Aunt Lydia
hating her, or Miss Holiday all white and wet come back to find her blue
Venetian bead.

And the door was locked. It was the most dreadful moment in Jenny’s
life. Worse than the one just before the accident, when she knew it was
going to happen. Worse than coming round in the hospital and feeling all
smashed up. Because with Jenny the things that happened in her mind
would always be worse than anything that could happen to her body. She
stood flat against the door and made herself stiff, so as not to beat
upon it with her hands and scream for Rosamond. If she did that, Aunt
Lydia would come, and she would know that it was Jenny who had tricked
her.

It took every bit of her strength, but she did it. And then all of a
sudden the key turned, and the handle, and the door began to move. She
had been pressed against it, but at the very first sound she went back
inch by inch on her bare feet, her hands at her throat to stop the
scream which was there. The door went on moving, and suddenly,
blessedly, there was Rosamond in her white nightgown with the passage
light behind her. She saw Jenny, her hair standing up in a rumpled halo
and her eyes staring. When she held out her arms Jenny ran into them,
gasping for breath and all at once a dead weight to be carried to the
bed and laid down there.

When Rosamond had shut the door she came back to kneel down and listen
first to a wordless sobbing, and then to half-stifled words. Some of
them were to come back to her afterwards. At the time she could only
think of Jenny’s clinging hands and the trembling of her body. They were
there together in the dark. A movement to put on the light had brought a
more agonized shuddering than before, and a gasp of “No—she’ll come!”

When the sobbing died away Rosamond’s almost inarticulate words of
comfort began to take form.

“Jenny, listen!... Yes, you can if you try. Something lovely is going to
happen, and I’m going to tell you about it. There isn’t anything to be
frightened of. We are going away.” Jenny gave a rending sniff. “Wait
till I get a handkerchief and I’ll tell you all about it.”

She made her way to the chest of drawers, came back again, and sat on
the bed.

“Here you are. And don’t cry any more, or you won’t be able to listen.”

“I’m not crying—I’m blowing my nose.” Then after an interval, with no
more than a catch in her breath, “Where are we going?”

“We are going away with Craig. I’m going to marry him.”

“When?”

“Tomorrow—no, I expect by this time it’s today.”

“I’m coming too?”

“Of course! Oh, Jenny, I wouldn’t leave you!”

Jenny said, “I should think not!” And then, “Aunt Lydia locked me in.”

“I know, darling. Nobody shall again. Only you mustn’t go out at
night—you’ll promise, won’t you?”

“Who said I went out at night?”

“Aunt Lydia saw you. And Craig did too. You mustn’t, darling—it isn’t
safe.”

Jenny’s voice went stiff.

“I don’t want to any more.” Then, with sudden energy, “Rosamond—”

“What is it?”

“Suppose she comes back!”

“Aunt Lydia?”

Jenny was gripping her wrist.

“Yes—_yes_! She was out there! She came and looked in and shone a
torch!”

“Was that what frightened you! I thought I heard someone in the
garden—someone talking. Was that Aunt Lydia?”

“The talking part wasn’t. Rosamond, she shone her torch to see if I was
awake. Suppose she comes along the passage and tries the door!”

“Why should she?”

“She might. Let’s go into your room. We can lock this room again and
she’ll think I’m here, and we can lock ourselves into yours. And then
we’ll run away tomorrow and marry Craig and live happy ever after.”




                               CHAPTER 39


Lydia Crewe went back to her room and put on all the lights—not only
the big chandelier with its many-faceted lustres, but the gilt and
crystal sconces on either side of the chimney-breast and between the
windows, until every inch of the crowded room sprang into view. The
curtains hung across the windows in the dark straight folds, but this
was the only darkness which remained. There was no place for shadows
under the blaze of those unsparing lights. She sat down in her chair,
stiffly upright, rigidly controlled. Her heart still beat more heavily
than it should have done. She set her will to steady it. The dark garden
was shut away from her by a barrier of walls, a barrier of lights. If it
was nerves which had played her a trick, they should learn that she was
their mistress. If it was Jenny—

She held her anger in a leash and would not let it go. Jenny could wait.
This was no time to take an extra risk. It was Lucy who was the danger,
not Jenny, playing with a blue Venetian bead which no one would ever see
again. It was gone, and tomorrow Jenny would be gone to the school which
Millicent Westerham had described as “a bit rough and ready, but the
discipline is excellent and the fees really low.” Jenny wasn’t going to
like the excellent discipline of Miss Simmington’s school. It might
perhaps be left to deal with her, at any rate for the present.

She came back to Lucy Cunningham, who was the real danger. After that
interview with Henry it would be safer to wait, but she couldn’t risk
it. And in a way it would be all to the good, because he would be able
to say in the most truthful and convincing manner that poor Lucy had
been in an extremely nervous state and had complained about not being
able to sleep. Only of course he must stick to that and not go beyond
it. He had neither the nerve nor the clarity of mind to lie
convincingly.

Well it must be done tonight. More people than Henry would have noticed
that Lucy hadn’t been herself all day. When she was found in the
morning, it would be just one more case of an elderly woman who couldn’t
sleep and had gone beyond the safety line in the matter of a drug. Her
mind began to busy itself with the details. Henry and Nicholas must be
asleep. Lucy had often complained that nothing woke either of them once
they were off. They must have time to be so profoundly asleep that no
one would ever know that she had returned to the Dower House. No one
except Lucy, and Lucy would not be in a position to tell what she had
known. It would have passed with her into the silence from which there
is no coming back.

The voice which she had heard in the garden whispered at the edge of
consciousness and was refused. The dead could not return. They had no
power to harm. You were safe from them. When Lucy was dead she would be
safe from her.... Time went by.

When at last she rose to her feet she was steady and resolved. Her
bedroom lay beyond with a connecting door. She went through to the
bathroom on the other side, a converted room with some of the furniture
which had belonged to it still taking up what should have been clean,
clear space. She went to the small bureau in the corner and lifted the
flap. There were a number of pigeonholes behind it, all stuffed with
papers—old bills, old correspondence, things she had never troubled
herself to deal with. When she had cleared the second hole from the left
she felt for the spring which disclosed a small inner compartment. It
was empty except for just one thing—a glass bottle very nearly full of
white tablets.

She put everything else back, tipped a number of the tablets into the
palm of her hand, and contemplated them. They were more than twenty
years old—nearer thirty. Old Dr. Lester had prescribed them for her
father in his last illness. One, or at the outside two if the pain
became severe. On no account more. She wondered if the drug would have
kept its strength. She had never heard anything to the contrary, and she
would just have to chance it. Better make the dose a stiff one—say ten
tablets. She counted them out and put them into a tumbler to dissolve
with a little hot water. She would need a small bottle for the liquid.
After some deliberation she selected from a cupboard a three-parts empty
bottle of ipecacuanha wine, washed it out carefully, and when the
tablets were fully dissolved corked them up in it.

She stepped out into the passage, resolved and confident, and enough at
her ease to walk back as far as Jenny’s room and try the door. If it had
been open, she would have locked it again and taken the key. She had not
been at all satisfied with Rosamond’s response when the matter was
discussed, and she did not intend to be flouted. But the key was turned
and the door fast. She passed down the passage and across the hall. And
so by the side door and the dark familiar path to the Dower House.




                               CHAPTER 40


Craig Lester kept his watch. After some reconnoitring he decided on a
vantage point where an old apple tree rose among the shrubs which lay
between the side of the house and the gap by which the garden could be
entered from next door. In the darkness and still bare of leaf he could
not know what kind of a tree it was, but Lucy Cunningham could have told
him that it would have a wealth of rosy blossom in May and be weighed
down with rosy apples in September.

Lydia Crewe could have told him more than that. For two hundred years
there had been an orchard tree here between the houses. Then the taste
in gardening changed, became more formal. Shrubs took the place of pear
and cherry, apple and mulberry and quince, to suit the whim of Sophia
Crewe who had brought a fortune into the family’s already depleted
coffers. She was beautiful, stubborn, and extremely well dowered, and
Jonathan Crewe had let her have her way. But he would not part with the
tree which provided his breakfast apple for ten months in the year. He
had boasted about it for too long, and his middle-aged foot came down
and stayed that way. He had been gone for a long time now—and Sophia
and her dowry—but the apple tree remained. It had low spreading boughs.
When Craig was tired of standing he could sit comfortably enough, and
when he was tired of sitting he could stand again. What he could not do
was to walk about. He found it remarkably like old times.

He began to think about Rosamond. He could not believe, he would not let
himself believe, that anything could go wrong now. Whatever happened or
didn’t happen tonight, they must be married as he had planned. He hoped
with all his heart that nothing would happen. He supposed Miss Silver
was bound to ring up the police, but somehow he didn’t see the country
people rushing over in the middle of the night to arrest Henry
Cunningham on the word of an elderly spinster. There would have to be a
search warrant, and a search warrant meant recourse to a higher
authority. Higher authority didn’t take kindly to being knocked up in
the small hours. He considered there would be some weight behind the
argument that if the Melbury rubies were in Henry Cunningham’s drawer
they could very well stay there for a few hours longer. As to Miss
Cunningham being in any danger, he felt that a good deal of scepticism
could be expected.

He began to feel a good deal of scepticism himself. If he had not stood
behind the panel and heard Lydia Crewe say, “Lucy knows too much,” the
scepticism might have been complete. As it was, the words stuck in his
throat—“Lucy knows too much.” And how did it go on—“She knows enough
to ruin us.” He could tell himself that she was putting a case to Henry
Cunningham, and that anyhow people said a lot of things they didn’t
really mean. But the words stuck, and the voice that carried them. It
occurred to him quite suddenly that he had never disliked any one as
much as he disliked Lydia Crewe.

If his ears had not been trained to listen, he might not have heard her
when she came. The path ran close beside his tree. If he had taken one
step and stretched out a hand he could have touched her, but she went
past with what was hardly a sound. The air moved, something went by.
Since he knew where she must be going, he did not hurry to follow her.
He had unlaced his shoes, now he slipped them off and left them hanging
on the tree. He came in his stocking feet to the edge of the little
courtyard as she slipped behind the bush which screened the secret door.
The key turned, the door swung in, and she was gone. He could neither
see nor hear these things, but he knew that they were happening.

And then Miss Silver was saying, “She has just gone in, has she not?”

“Yes.”

“She must be followed, and at once.”

The tall figure of Frank Abbott loomed up. He said in the almost
soundless voice which the others were using,

“There’s a delay about the search warrant. It may be some time before it
gets here.”

Miss Silver was already on her way towards the house. Frank followed
her.

“My dear ma’am, we can’t just go in!”

He considers that her reply exhibits the Victorian tradition at the
point where the sublime transcends the ridiculous. It is not so easy to
achieve dignity without emphasis, but she achieved it.

“My dear Frank, I am on visiting terms with Miss Cunningham, and I feel
no difficulty about entering her house. You and Mr. Lester will, of
course, do what you feel to be right.” With which pronouncement she too
stepped behind the bush and entered the passage.

Standing for a moment to listen, she could hear nothing. There was need
for haste, but there was also a need for caution.

Lydia Crewe passed through the study, leaving the panel open. A small
light burned in the hall. After some consideration she left it as it was
and went up to the bedroom floor. If she had to make a sudden retreat it
would be useful to be able to see her way. Lucy Cunningham’s door was
the first on the right at the top of the stairs—Henry opposite on the
left, and Nicholas at the back of the landing. She had no fear that they
would wake, but if either of them did, Henry had alarmed her about Lucy
and she had slipped over to see that all was well.

She tried the handle of the door and found it fast. Her brows met in a
frown. She lifted her hand and knocked. After a moment a voice said,

“Who’s there?”

She would hardly have known it for Lucy’s voice, it was so hoarse and
strained. She made her own voice smooth.

“It’s Lydia, my dear. Henry was concerned about you. He said you were
not well. He was concerned enough to ring me up.”

Lucy Cunningham was startled right out of her fear.

“Henry rang you up!”

“Yes. You can tell how worried he must have been. Let me in—we can’t
talk like this.”

She heard Lucy come up to the door and turn the key. A triumphant sense
of power took hold of her as she stepped into the room and pushed the
door to behind her. She did not stop to latch it. She would not be here
for long. What she had to do could be done without delay. She looked at
Lucy, still in her afternoon dress, and said in a shocked tone,

“But, my dear, you are not undressed. Do you know how late it is?”

Lucy shook her head.

“It doesn’t matter—I can’t sleep. Did you say Henry rang you up?”

Lydia Crewe nodded.

“He’s terribly worried. I told him I would come over and bring you a
sleeping-draught.”

“_Henry_ rang you up?” Incredulity struggled through the flat fatigue of
her voice.

“That is what I said.”

“_Henry?_”

“Would you be glad to know that we have made it up again?”

“_Glad?_ Oh, Lydia!”

The tears began to run down her face. She put out her hands gropingly.
Lydia Crewe took them, guided her to the bed, and sat there beside her,
speaking to her soothingly.

The sound of this soothing voice reached Miss Silver as she came to the
top of the stairs—that and the sound of Lucy Cunningham’s sobs. They
made it quite safe to approach the door, which was ajar. Standing there,
she heard Miss Crewe say,

“Now, Lucy, there’s nothing to cry about. Henry and I are just where we
were, and you ought to be pleased about that. But he is terribly worried
about you, so I want you to take this sleeping-draught. What you need is
a good night’s rest. Henry can ask Mrs. Hubbard to let you sleep on in
the morning, and when you wake up you can tell us how glad you are that
we can all be friends again. Of course you and I always were. We never
did let anything come between us, did we, and we never will.”

All the time that she was speaking Lucy wept, not loudly, but in an
exhausted fashion as if she had come to the end of her strength and
could do no more. Lydia and Henry had made it up—Lydia was being
kind—there was nothing to worry about any more. But she was too tired
to be glad. All she wanted was to lie down and sleep. She was conscious
of the removal of Lydia’s arm and of her getting up and going over to
the washstand. There was the chink of glass against glass.

And then Lydia was back again, standing in front of her and holding out
a tumbler.

“Now, Lucy, drink this. And then we’ll get your clothes off and you can
go to sleep.”

Miss Silver pushed the door an inch or two wider. Lucy Cunningham was
sitting on the side of the bed, her face wet with tears, her eyes
blurred. Standing over her with her back to the door was Lydia Crewe.
There was a tumbler in her hand half full. She held it out to Lucy and
said in a tone of authority,

“Come now—drink it up!”

Lucy gave a last tired sob and said,

“I don’t—want it, Lydia. Now you’ve come—I shall sleep.”

The tone of authority became harsher.

“You will drink it at once and no nonsense about it! What you need is a
good long rest!”

Lucy Cunningham put out her hand half way and took the glass. And saw
Miss Maud Silver come into the room with her black cloth coat, her fur
tippet, her second-best hat, and her warm woolen gloves. It was such a
surprising sight that it shocked her broad awake. The impact of Lydia’s
will was blunted. Her face changed, she drew back her hand.

Miss Silver gave a slight arresting cough and said,

“I think it is extremely wise of you to resist a sedative, Miss
Cunningham. Natural sleep is always to be preferred.”

Lydia Crewe turned stiffly round. She had had one shock already. She had
surmounted it. Now there was this. In a moment she would be able to
think, to plan, to know what she must do. Just now, in this instant of
time, she could only stand there and stare.

With a purely instinctive movement Lucy Cunningham leaned sideways
behind Miss Crewe’s back and set the tumbler down upon the bedside
table. There was no design in what she did. There was a tumbler in her
hand, she set it down. Something had brought Miss Silver into her room
in the middle of the night. She got to her feet, passing Lydia, standing
away from her, because all at once the room was full of fierce currents.
She didn’t understand them, but they were there. Lydia who had been kind
was not kind any longer. Her voice shook with a sound which Lucy knew
and feared beyond anything else.

“What—do—you—want?”

Miss Silver did not appear to be impressed. She said in her usual
composed manner,

“I want you to go home, Miss Crewe. I believe that you had better do so.
Miss Cunningham should rest.”

Lydia Crewe made a great effort. She controlled the rage that shook her.
She controlled her voice to say,

“I found she had dissolved some tablets for a sleeping-draught—they are
some she had by her. I was just waiting to see her take them and help
her to bed.”

And what must Lucy say, the babbling fool, but “Lydia, I’ve never had
any sleeping-tablets. I don’t like them—I don’t need them. It was
you—”

There was a silence. Lydia Crewe gathered her remaining forces. She
said,

“Very well, I’ll go. Since you don’t need that draught, we can throw it
away.” Then suddenly, sharply, “What have you done with it?... Ah!”

She had not turned in time. Miss Silver had moved between her and the
bedside table, and at that her control broke. She made a dreadful sound
and reached for Miss Silver’s throat.

Lucy Cunningham screamed at the top of her voice, and in a moment the
room was full of people—Frank Abbott, Craig Lester, Nicholas. And at
long last Henry Cunningham, his shaking hands to his ears, because now
it was Lydia Crewe who was screaming—dreadfully.




                               CHAPTER 41


Rosamond lay dreaming. She walked in a spring garden with Craig. The
dark wood was a thing of the past, she didn’t seem to remember it any
more. This was a spring garden. There were apple trees rosy with bloom,
there was cherry blossom. The path where they walked was set on either
side with daffodils and coloured primroses. There was a blue sky over
head, and the sun shone. She woke to darkness and a voice that called
her name.

“Rosamond! Wake up!”

It was Craig’s voice. The sweetness of the dream was still round her.
She sat up beside Jenny in the wide old-fashioned bed and called softly,

“What is it?”

“It’s Craig. Come over here to the window. I want to speak to you.”

They kissed with the bars between them. He held her.

“Darling, I hate to wake you like this, but we’ve got to push the time
on a bit.”

“What is it?”

“I’ll tell you afterwards. Look here, it’s nearly six o’clock. I want
you to wake Jenny and get dressed—both of you. If you’ll let me in by
the side door, I’ll be getting you some tea. I don’t want to start our
married life by starving you. I suppose there’ll be eggs?”

“There ought to be. But, Craig—”

“My sweet, there’s no time for any buts—you’ve just got to do what I
say! Put on your dressing-gown and let me in, and I’ll wrestle up some
food while you get packed.”

She did what she was told. It might have been part of the dream—darker
than the one from which she had come and full of questioning thoughts.
They did not pass her lips. There was a sense of urgency, of fear. If
Lydia Crewe should wake—she shrank appalled at the threat of what scene
would follow and of what the bitter tongue might say. The thoughts came
and went. There was no time to dwell on them. The sense of urgency
persisted. It was in Craig’s clasp and kiss when the garden door swung
open to let him in. It was in the quiet haste with which he sent her
back to dress as soon as she had shown him the way to the kitchen.

Jenny was awake when she got back, and the light was on. There sprang up
in her a picture of Lydia Crewe standing at her window to look out and
seeing that bright rectangle printed on the path. It was her custom to
sleep with windows closed and curtains drawn, but in the picture Lydia
stood at the window to watch the light from Rosamond’s room. She might
have stood there to listen when Craig spoke from the other side of the
bars. Rosamond did not know that Lydia Crewe would never stand at those
windows to listen and watch again. She made haste to draw the curtains
across her own.

Jenny was stretching and yawning.

“Darling, it’s the middle of the night. Where have you been?”

Rosamond said soberly,

“It’s after six. Craig wants us to come with him now. Hurry up and get
dressed! He’s making tea in the kitchen.”

Jenny stopped yawning to blow her a kiss. Her eyes sparkled, the sleep
all gone from them.

“Ooh! Lovely! We mustn’t make any noise, must we? Suppose _she_ heard us
and came along snorting out fire and forbidding the bans!”

Rosamond was stepping into her clothes. She said briefly,

“We should go all the same—she couldn’t stop us. But hurry!”

As they turned from the side passage which served their room and Lydia
Crewe’s, Jenny looked back. Words came tumbling out of her mouth in a
whisper.

“What do you say when you are going away from a place you hate with all
your might? It can’t be ‘Good-bye,’ because that means ‘Good be with
you,’ and it can’t be ‘Farewell.’ It had better be ‘Horrid, horrible
place, I hope I shall never, _never_, NEVER see you again!’ ” She caught
at Rosamond’s arm. “Run, before it comes after us and pulls us back!”

Rosamond could feel that the hand was shaking. She steadied her own
voice to say,

“I can’t run with two suit-cases. And there’s no need—no one will come
after us.”

It was whilst she was saying it that she could feel for the first time
that it was true. They crossed the hall. She had left one light burning
there. It did very little with the darkness except to show how the
shadows clung about the stairway, and how black was the upper landing
and the mouth of every passage. Somewhere in the gloom above their heads
the ancestral portraits watched them go. It was a relief to pass the
baize door at the back of the hall and find bright lights beyond. Craig
seemed to have switched on everything as he came to it.

He was fishing eggs out of a boiling saucepan as they came into the
kitchen. There was a cloth spread on the table. Cups and saucers, butter
and a loaf, stood ready. He called over his shoulder,

“Get out the salt and pepper, and the knives! Oh, and the milk—the
kettle is just going to boil!”

It wasn’t romantic, but it was extremely reassuring. When the baize door
fell to they had left the haunted shadows behind them. Kitchens don’t
have ghosts. Or at least no more alarming ones than the lingering aroma
of bygone meals. They ate and washed up what they had used. Mrs. Bolder
would miss the eggs and know that the bread and the butter had been cut,
but she wouldn’t be able to say that they had left their cups and plates
for her to deal with.

It was striking seven when they let themselves out of the side door and
walked down the drive to where Craig had left his car. It was a still,
cold morning, and the darkness had begun to thin away.




                               CHAPTER 42


Mrs. Selby woke up. She had heard the clock strike quarter after quarter
all through the night, and then quite suddenly she was asleep. Or was
she? She didn’t know. The clock had stopped striking. Everything was
very still and very cold. She was quite alone—there wasn’t anyone or
anything. It was more frightening than the most frightening dream.

Then into the emptiness and silence there came something that must have
been a sound. She didn’t know where it came from, but it woke her. She
sat up in bed and heard a car come down the lane. It was quite dark in
the room. She didn’t care about having windows open and the night air
coming in, and she kept her curtains drawn. Horrid and damp the night
air was in the country, and she didn’t hold with letting it in. Besides
there were bats, and if a bat got into the room she would go crazy.
Fred, now, he liked his windows open—said the room got stuffy if they
were shut, and he couldn’t sleep. Well, she couldn’t sleep with them
open, so he had his own room, and she had hers. It wasn’t what she had
thought they would ever come to. Married people ought to sleep together,
and that was a fact. But have those windows open on the ground floor,
and cats and bats and goodness knows what coming in, she couldn’t and
she wouldn’t. There hadn’t been any unpleasantness over it—she would
have liked it better if there had been. What she didn’t like was the
feeling that Fred was just as well pleased to have it this way. He ought
to have been put about and have made a fuss, instead of just smiling to
himself and saying, “Have it your own way, my dear.”

She sat up in bed and heard four men get out of the car. She knew that
there were four, because she heard them talking, and not troubling to
keep their voices down neither. They came up to the door and she heard
the buzz of the electric bell. Well, she wasn’t opening doors in her
nightgown—Fred would have to go. But she got out of bed and went to the
window. With the curtains pulled a little to one side to make a peephole
she could see that it wasn’t dark any more, just the grey of the early
morning, and the clouds so low that they would be bound to have rain
before you could turn round. Funny how you got to notice the weather
down here in the country. When they lived in town she never noticed it
unless it was snow, or hail, or a thunderstorm, or one of those hot
spells when it didn’t seem as if there was enough air to go round.

The electric bell went again. This time the man kept his thumb on it.
She could see him now, and the others, standing round the door waiting
for someone to come. Policemen! She let the curtain fall and stepped
back, cold and shaking. What did the police want, coming here like this
before anyone was dressed? Fred would have to go to the door. They would
have to wait. She reached for her dressing-gown, clutched it about her
shoulders, and went in barefoot to the room at the back where he slept.
The draught from the open window met her. He lay facing it with his back
to her and the bedclothes huddled up around his ears. She had to pull
them away and shake him before he roused, flinging out an arm and
grumbling, “What’s the matter?”

“The police, Fred!”

He said, “Nonsense!” And then, sharply, “What do they want?”

“I don’t know. I can’t go to the door like this.”

He gave the bedclothes such a shove that they fell over onto the floor
and hung trailing. Someone was banging on the door now. He threw her an
angry look and went padding down the passage to open it.

Mrs. Selby stood where she was. She got her arms into her dressing-gown
and did up the buttons. There was talk going on, but she couldn’t hear
what was said. It would be something about Miss Holiday. She didn’t want
to hear what it was. Every time she thought of that poor thing going
down the well it made her feel giddy and sick.

There were footsteps in the passage, and Fred came back into the room.
He looked as if he might be getting a chill. A raw morning like this he
ought to have his clothes on. There was one of the policemen with him.
He cleared his throat and said,

“You’d better go back to your room, ma’am. Mr. Selby is going to get
dressed.”

And Fred said,

“Yes, my dear. Better get your clothes on, and then you can make us some
tea. The police just want to go over the premises again, and as I tell
them, I’m sure we’ve no objection. We’ve got nothing to hide.”

The constable coughed behind his hand. Like a stabbing knife the thought
came into her mind, “What has Fred been up to?” He had a smile on his
face, and to anyone who didn’t know him like she did his voice was just
the jolly, friendly voice he’d use for company. But it couldn’t take her
in. There was something wrong, and he was trying to put a face on it.

She went into her own room and put on the first clothes that came to
hand, a royal blue skirt and jumper and a purple cardigan. She dragged a
comb through her hair and tidied it. The bright colours gave her a
ghastly look, but she didn’t think about that. She put on her stockings
and a pair of quilted slippers with a fleecy lining that were warm to
her feet. She took a little pleasure from the warmth.

Fred came out of his room, and there was a trampling of feet through the
house and out by the back door. Mrs. Selby went into the kitchen and put
a kettle on the oil stove, but it had boiled, and come off the boil, and
cooled, and gone back on a low flame, before anyone came into the house.
The rain was falling in a steady drizzle when she went to the back door
and looked out. Sometimes there was nothing to see except the rain
falling on the hen-houses, and the hens, rather draggled, pecking and
scratching in their runs. Sometimes the men came into view, crossing
from one shed to another. There were two good sheds on the place. She
couldn’t think what they wanted with them.

In the end the trampling feet were back in the house again. Only one of
the men came through into the kitchen, the Inspector from Melbury. He
came right up to her with his hand shut down over something and stood
there, the kitchen table between them. Then he laid down his hand on the
bright checked cloth and opened it, and there in the middle of his palm
was one of Miss Holiday’s beads. There was no mistaking it—bright
sky-blue, with those gold and silver flakes mixed in under the glass.
Her mouth opened, and before she could stop herself she said,

“But that’s one of Miss Holiday’s beads!”

The Inspector said,

“Sure about that, Mrs. Selby?”

“Oh, yes—of course I’m sure. Why, she—”

There was a chair beside her. She sat down on it and stared at him.

“Mrs. Selby, when you gave us a description of what Miss Holiday was
wearing on Sunday night you included a string of blue beads. Do you
identify this bead as having formed part of that string?”

Her voice had sunk away. She could hardly hear it herself when she said,

“Yes—”

He said,

“When Miss Holiday’s body was taken up out of the well the string of
beads had broken, but some of them were discovered in her clothing. This
bead has just been found in the last of the sheds we searched. It had
slipped inside the mouth of an old sack. Is there any way in which you
can account for its being there?”

She said, “No.”

“Miss Holiday was alive when you saw her last?”

“Oh, _yes_.”

“She was wearing these beads?”

“Oh, yes.”

“The string wasn’t broken?”

“Oh, _no_.”

“Did you see her again after she left this house?”

He had taken her back to the Sunday evening—sitting there with Miss
Holiday in the lounge—seeing the blue beads and thinking how pretty
they were when the bits of gold and silver sparkled under the
light—going to the door with her and seeing her out. Everything else
seemed to have slipped away. It was just saying good-bye on the Sunday
evening that was real. She could see Miss Holiday going out of the front
door, and herself shutting it and turning the key. She said,

“I let her out, and I locked the door. I never saw her again.”




                               CHAPTER 43


When Lydia Crewe stopped screaming she began to talk. She talked through
all that remained of the night, and she was still talking when they
brought Fred Selby into the station and began to question him there
after cautioning him that anything he said might be taken down and used
in evidence. Lydia Crewe had been cautioned too, but it made no
difference, she just went on talking. Something—some control, some
check, had slipped. Frank Abbott was reminded of a clock belonging to
his grandmother, the redoubtable Lady Evelyn Abbott. It had started
striking in the middle of family prayers and no one had been able to
stop it. Her look of surprise and disapproval merging into outraged
rebuke remained with him as a pleasant memory.

But there was nothing pleasant about Lydia Crewe’s performance. Plainly
enough, she had passed the bounds of sanity whilst remaining dreadfully
and convincingly lucid. First and foremost there stood out pride in her
own achievements. To preserve Crewe House, to endow it with new wealth,
were objects which justified all that she had done, and she took great
pride in the doing of it. When they told her that her conversation about
the Melbury rubies had been overheard by two witnesses and the rubies
themselves recovered, two from the bodies of spiders freshly mounted by
Henry, and the rest from his table drawer, she ran off into telling them
exactly how she had changed the stones.

“What was the good of them to Felicia Melbury or to anyone else kept
locked up in a safe? How many times do you suppose she wore them last
year? Exactly twice—at the County Ball and the Melbury Hunt Ball! So I
rang her up and said could I come over—we are connected by marriage,
you know—and when I got there she told me she was wearing the famous
necklace, which I knew already, and she was quite pleased to show it
off. So I had my chance. You wouldn’t understand the process, because I
invented it myself—paper specially prepared to take an exact
impression. It has, of course, to be supplemented by a keen colour sense
and a photographic memory, both of which I possess. I had only to invent
a pretext for getting her out of the room for a moment. I said that I
had forgotten my handkerchief, and she went into her bedroom next door
to get me one. By the time she returned the impression had been taken
and the paper was safe in my bag. To make a finished sketch from which a
jeweller could work was a business requiring a great deal of skill. The
stones for the substitute necklace came from Paris to my specification.
Selby has an extremely clever workman in his shop in Garstin Street. You
didn’t know he had a jeweller’s shop, did you—but no one expects the
police to be clever. We outwitted you every time.”

The Melbury superintendent said nothing. A massive man, not given to
change of countenance. Frank Abbott said,

“Not this time, Miss Crewe.”

She went on as if he had not spoken.

“It’s just a shabby shop in a shabby street—pins on brooches, and
watches to mend—cheap strings of pearls for the local girl to put round
her neck and think she looks like somebody. You didn’t know Selby had a
shop like that, did you? He retired from the business he used to run
with his brother, but he stuck to his little jeweller’s shop and the
clever Hirsch—a very industrious man and actually very trustworthy.
When the necklace was ready I had only to wait for the Hunt Ball and go
over to Melbury Towers again. Felicia doesn’t like me, but she is afraid
of my tongue. I go there when I choose, and she is always very polite.
There is very little I don’t know about most people in the county. I
went over, I admired the necklace, and I changed it for the one which
Hirsch had made. She was actually in the room at the time. I had called
her attention to something in the garden, and the change only took a
moment.”

The harsh voice went on and on. She was asked about Miss Holiday. She
took up the tale of the envelope thrust carelessly into an overall
pocket by a frightened woman and dropped again for Lucy Cunningham to
pick up and bring back to Crewe House.

“So then, you see, she had to go. She might have looked inside and seen
the sketch for the necklace. Selby managed very cleverly.”

The Superintendent said,

“How did he manage?”

Her eyes looked past him, pleased like a cat with a bird.

“I went across the fields and let him know. He said she would be coming
down to see his wife as soon as he went past to the Holly Tree. She was
frightened of men, you know! Such a fool! He said he could slip out and
catch her just before nine, when she would be going home. She always
went at the same time because the old woman locked up then. He said no
one would miss him if he slipped out for a minute or two like that. It’s
no distance. So that is what he did.”

“He killed Miss Holiday?”

“Oh, no, he only stunned her. And we put her in one of the sheds at the
back of the bungalow. You see, we couldn’t put her down the well until
quite late in the night in case of there being anyone awake. It wouldn’t
have done for Mrs. Selby to notice anything, or old Mrs. Maple.”

The Superintendent put his hand to his chin.

“Miss Crewe, you have been warned that what you say is being taken down
and may be used in evidence. Am I to understand that you were present
when Miss Holiday was first stunned and at some time later thrown into
the well at the bottom of Mrs. Maple’s garden?”

Her glance flickered over him, dry and bright.

“Oh, yes—he couldn’t possibly have managed without me. There is a most
convenient path across the fields which comes out at the stile in
Vicarage Lane quite close to the Selbys’ bungalow. I can assure you the
whole thing was extremely well organized. I spared no trouble. You must
understand, Superintendent, that the controlling mind has been my own
throughout. Selby has been useful, but he has always taken his orders
from me. He is quite incapable of working out the intricate plans which
have made our enterprise so successful. I must insist that you are clear
on this point.”

“And Mr. Cunningham—what was his position?”

She said, “Oh, Henry!” Her hands gestured as if letting something fall.
Her rings flashed under the light. Frank Abbott thought, “They’ll take
them away, and she’ll mind like hell.” An odd irrelevancy which came and
went in between one breath and the next.

“Henry!” she said. “Why, he couldn’t plan anything if he tried! All he
could do was to mount the stones in his specimens. And we never told him
anything we could help. He liked doing the work, but the other side of
it worried him. He really made some excellent models of caterpillars.
Some of them are quite large, and he was very clever about packing them
with diamonds. You can get quite a number of diamonds into one of those
big caterpillars. He used some stuff like plasticine and painted them
when they were dry. They were supposed to be used for instructional
purposes abroad.”

Frank Abbott’s light sardonic gaze rested upon her.

“Very ingenious, Miss Crewe. The whole thing must have given you a great
deal of thought. May I ask whether the disappearance of Maggie Bell was
another instance of your ingenuity? I suppose she saw something she
wasn’t meant to see at the Dower House, and when Henry Cunningham told
you about it you took the matter in hand?”

Her brows drew together in a frown.

“What do you know about Maggie Bell?”

He leaned back in his chair, his pose negligent, his voice easy.

“Well, if you ask me what I think, I should say Henry was careless. Let
me see—you had already got away with Lady Melbury’s necklace. You may
have intended to get the stones out of the country a year ago, and then
have decided to wait. Henry may have had some of them to pack into a
specimen. At a guess, he probably left them lying about loose on his
blotting-pad while he went out of his room, and when he came back, there
was Maggie Bell looking at them.”

“She had no business in his study,” said Lydia Crewe severely. “She had
been told she must never interrupt him when he was working. If people
disregard orders they must take the consequences.”

“May I ask how you induced her to—er—take them? How did that clever
planning brain of yours deal with what must have been quite a dangerous
situation?”

“Naturally I saw at once that the matter was urgent. Maggie would not be
likely to mention anything she had seen to her parents—very
disagreeable people and interested in nothing except themselves and
their ailments. But Maggie used to slip down to that cousin of hers who
works for Mrs. Merridew, Florrie Hunt. Lucy Cunningham happened to
mention that she was going there that evening. Lucy always mentions
everything—a tiresome habit, but sometimes it is convenient. I told
Selby to have his car ready and to pick me up. The Hunts’ house is the
last in the village, and we drew up beyond it. I went back, and when
Maggie came along I was waiting for her. I said I had a note for Mrs.
Hunt, and she walked with me to the car to get it. Really a very stupid
woman, though quite an efficient worker. I told her to get into the car,
as there was something I wanted to explain about the note. When Selby
had dealt with her, we disposed of the body and went home. There was
really no risk about it at all. Selby posted two cards which I had
prepared, and everyone thought she had just got bored with Hazel Green
and gone off.”

“What did you do with the body?” said the Superintendent.

Lydia Crewe bridled—there was no other word for it. The effect was
ghastly.

“Ah!” she said. “You never found out, did you? If you had found a body,
people wouldn’t have believed she had run away, would they? So I took
good care that the body should not be found!”

Frank Abbott raised his eyebrows and said,

“Well, we have only your word for it that she didn’t run away, haven’t
we? All that clever plan of yours that you’ve been telling us about
rather goes by the board without any evidence to back it up. Personally,
I shan’t believe a word of it unless you can produce the body. If you
really disposed of it as you say you did, then you will be able to tell
us what you did with it, and when we have found it you can expect us to
believe your story. At the moment I don’t feel particularly credulous.”

She went on talking.




                               CHAPTER 44


Miss Silver was quite ready when Craig called for her at a little after
half-past nine. She wore the hat which had been her best for no more
than two winters, a black felt with a bunch of pansies on the left-hand
side. Frank Abbott has always maintained that during the years he has
sat at her feet Maudie has only possessed two hats, labelled
respectively Best and Second Best, but that periodically, like the
Phoenix, they renew their youth and rise on stepping-stones of their
dead selves to higher things—these being exemplified by new black or
purple ribbons and fresh bunches of the more sober kind of flower. It
is, of course, so far true that her hats are always of the same shape,
and that they are always made of black felt or black straw, according to
the season. The current hat carried a black ribbon edged with purple,
and the stalks of the pansies were controlled by a small jet buckle. She
had in readiness to put on the pair of grey suede gloves which Cecilia
Voycey had sent her for Christmas. She considered them far too light to
be practical, but for a wedding they would be most appropriate. From her
composed and serene appearance nobody would have guessed that she had
been up all night.

After a search of the study at the Dower House had disclosed the
presence of the Melbury rubies the arrest of Henry Cunningham had, of
course, been inevitable. Lucy Cunningham’s distress had been painful to
witness, and it had not been possible to leave her until she had fallen
into an uneasy sleep. Nicholas had been really helpful, and she had come
away towards morning feeling that Lucy might safely be left in his care
until Mrs. Merridew could relieve him.

Fortunately, Marian had slept through the hours of the night without any
suspicion that the front door was unlocked and her guest absent. By the
time she awoke to these facts they could no longer be considered of the
first importance. The arrest of Lydia Crewe, of Henry Cunningham, of
that good-natured Mr. Selby, dominated everything.

“Oh, my dear Maud, those poor girls—what will they do! And Lucy! She
will feel it quite dreadfully, poor thing! I must go to her! Poor
Henry—it doesn’t seem possible! He was such a good-looking young man.
Of course Lydia has always been strange. It isn’t really good for people
to live in the past as she has done. After all, these old houses, and
pictures, and furniture—they don’t matter as much as people do, and we
oughtn’t let ourselves think so. But Lydia did—one couldn’t help seeing
it. And whatever happened, she had to have her own way.”

Hazel Green buzzed with talk. But for once Florrie was not first with
the news. She found Mrs. Merridew and Miss Silver already informed, and
very little inclined to talk of what they knew. Mrs. Merridew’s, “It’s
all very sad, Florrie, and I must hurry and get dressed so that I can go
to Miss Cunningham,” was as much as she could get from her, and Miss
Silver had taken her cup of tea into her own room and shut the door.

When Craig arrived Mrs. Merridew had already gone over to the Dower
House and Miss Silver was ready. She waited until the village was behind
them before giving him anything but a grave “Good-morning.” Then she
said,

“How have they taken it, Mr. Lester?”

There was a touch of defiance in his answer.

“They don’t know.”

“You have told them nothing?”

He shook his head.

“Not a word. As soon as it began to get light I called through their
window and told them to get dressed and come along. They didn’t ask any
questions. I think there must have been some kind of a scene with Miss
Crewe. Jenny looked odd. She wasn’t in her own room—she was in with
Rosamond. I didn’t ask any questions either. I thought I’d leave well
enough alone until we were married. Rosamond is perfectly capable of
saying she can’t go through with it because that madwoman has been
arrested. But once I’m her husband I’ll be able to deal with that, and
with anything else that crops up. I don’t mind telling you I’m like a
cat on hot bricks until I’ve got her safe.”

“Where have you taken them, Mr. Lester?”

“Well, I thought about my uncle’s house. Highly respectable and all
that, but it would have made too much fuss. Elderly maid, nurse
companion, everything going like clockwork—you know the sort of thing.
It wouldn’t have done. So I took them to the Station Hotel—they’re used
to people arriving by early trains. They’ll stay in their room—or at
least I hope they will—until we come for them. I don’t think Jenny had
had much sleep, and Rosamond would be trying to keep her quiet.”

Miss Silver sat silent and thoughtful. News flies fast in the country.
The case was a sensational one. The arrested persons had been taken to
Melbury to be charged. There might already be talk in an hotel, where
the staff would be coming to work. The Melbury rubies would set tongues
wagging. She hoped indeed that Rosamond Maxwell would remain in her
room.

At Craig’s knock on the door Rosamond opened it. If he too had had
misgivings, they were swept away. She was wearing the blue jumper in
which she had come to tea with Mrs. Merridew. It wasn’t new, but it
deepened the sapphire blue of her eyes. When she looked at Craig they
were full of light.

He said, “Miss Silver has come to see us married,” and she turned at
once and put out both her hands.

“How kind of you—how very, very kind!”

Jenny was feeling rather grand because she was wearing a skirt and
jumper of Rosamond’s. Her own clothes were all up over her knees, and
you can’t go to your sister’s wedding like that. These things weren’t
new—none of their things were new—but she could feel the skirt
swishing against her legs in a perfectly grown-up way, and though it was
just rather a dull old tweed and the jumper was brown, they did show up
her hair. Odd that when Miss Silver looked at her she should feel as if
she wanted to cry.

They went down to the Register Office in Craig’s car. Jenny thought it
was a very dull way to be married. Rosamond would have looked so nice in
a long white dress with a train behind and a lovely floating veil. And
Jenny would have been bridesmaid, in a white dress too, with a wreath of
flowers on her hair. And an organ, and singing, and a lot of flowers in
the church. Dull, that’s what this was, and all over whilst she was
still thinking how nice the other sort of wedding would have been. She
hadn’t really got as far as deciding whether she would have snowdrops
and ivy leaves or grape hyacinths in her hair before the Registrar was
saying, “Let me be the first to congratulate you, Mrs. Lester,” and it
was all over.

Craig and Rosamond didn’t kiss. They looked at each other. There was
something in the way they looked which gave Jenny a curious shaky
feeling. It wasn’t flowers and a white dress and music that made a
wedding romantic. It was something else—something which was between the
two people who were marrying each other. And just for a moment when
Craig looked at Rosamond and she looked back at him Jenny had seen it.




                               CHAPTER 45


“She never stops talking,” said Frank Abbott. “It’s pretty grim. They’ve
got her in the Infirmary—she just goes on and on and on. Detailed
accounts of everything for the last twenty years.”

Miss Silver sighed.

“An extremely shocking case,” she said.

It was the evening of a crowded day. They sat in the drawing-room at the
White Cottage, Frank stretched out in the largest chair, Miss Silver
primly upright with her knitting in her lap. Mrs. Merridew was still
with Lucy Cunningham, and would remain there until she had seen her
settled for the night. The coffee-tray stood at Frank’s elbow, and a
pleasant fire burned upon the hearth. He said,

“The Chief Constable wouldn’t believe it, you know. Said she had gone
off her head, and the whole thing was just a painful delusion. Even the
sight of the Melbury rubies didn’t shake him. There had been Crewes at
Crewe House for three hundred years, and so forth and so on. If there
was a villain in the piece it would be Henry Cunningham. The
Cunninghams, you see, have only been here about thirty years, and as to
Selby, a mere chance-come Londoner, well naturally, he might be
anything. Odd, you know, because he is quite an able man. But that sort
of thing is died in the wool—the old county family can do no wrong.”

Little Josephine’s leggings were very nearly completed. There had been
just enough of the cherry-coloured wool. She said,

“And pray, how did you convince him?”

Frank poured himself out another cup of coffee. He sugared it
extravagantly.

“Well, you know, when she said that Maggie Bell’s body was in the old
sand pit just off the road down the second lane to the left on the way
to Melbury and it was there under a tangle of nettle and bramble, he had
either got to credit her with second sight or come round to the idea
that she had helped to put it there just as she said. She told us with a
good deal of pride how she had intercepted Maggie on her way to the
Hunts’s and got her into Selby’s car by saying there was something she
wanted her to explain to Florrie’s mother. After which it was quite easy
for Selby to knock her on the head, and so to the sand pit. Exit Maggie
who, like the unfortunate Miss Holiday, had seen too much. Very
regrettable, and a lot of trouble for Lydia Crewe. Henry had been
careless enough to leave stolen diamonds lying about on his table when
he went out of the room and returned to find Maggie looking at them.
Naturally, after that there was only one thing to be done, and Selby and
Lydia did it. I gather they didn’t tell Henry. All he did was to pack
the stuff in his specimens.”

“That is so. Mr. Lester and I overheard her assuring him that Maggie had
gone away because she was bored, and that Miss Holiday had committed
suicide. He was uneasy, but only too anxious to be convinced. A weak
man, and very much under her influence.”

Frank finished his cup and set it down.

“You know, what got everyone all wrong was the original assumption that
the disappearance of Maggie Bell had anything to do with the leakage of
information at Dalling Grange. If Maggie hadn’t been working for the
Cunninghams, and Nicholas Cunningham had not been employed upon highly
confidential work at Dalling, the two things would never have got mixed
up. The security people couldn’t get it out of their minds, and it
coloured the whole approach. For instance, they investigated Selby and
found he had retired from a perfectly respectable garage business in
which he and his brother were partners. If they had found out—which
they didn’t—that Mrs. Selby’s father used to have a small jeweller’s
shop which he left to his daughter, it really wouldn’t have meant
anything to them at all, but that is where all the funny business went
on. Mrs. Selby didn’t know anything about it—I gather Selby was pretty
lordly about her affairs. He picked up a very clever jewel-faker
cheap—French Jewish refugee—and they got going on substituting new
stones for old. What I want to know is, how did you tumble to it?”

Miss Silver reprehended the expression. A slight cough conveyed the
fact. Frank blew her a kiss.

“Apologies and regrets! Evil communications corrupt good manners. My
cousin has a lamentable vocabulary. After which honourable amend you
will, I am sure, relent and tell me all.”

She smiled with indulgence.

“My dear Frank, you talk very extravagantly. What is it you want to
know?”

“How you got on to the jewel business.”

Her needles clicked. She pulled on her cherry-coloured wool.

“It is a little difficult to say. Miss Crewe affected me in a very
disagreeable manner. She was closely and curiously linked with the
Cunninghams. There had been an engagement between herself and Henry
Cunningham. Mrs. Merridew made it clear that he was completely dominated
by her. Then a valuable piece of jewelry was missed in circumstances
which threw suspicion on Mr. Cunningham, and he lent colour to it by
leaving the country. After more than twenty years he returned, a quiet
depressed recluse, interested only in natural history. And Lydia Crewe
went out of her way to advertize the fact that there was a complete
breach between them. She would cut him dead in the street. She did so on
the occasion when she came here to tea. Mrs. Merridew was very much
distressed about it, and told me that it was her invariable practice.
The conversation at tea turned upon Lady Muriel Street having discovered
that the stones in a brooch which she had always believed to be valuable
were imitations. It was Mrs. Merridew who introduced the subject, but
Miss Crewe pursued it in rather a curious manner, instancing a similar
discovery on the part of Lady Melbury which need never have been made
public if it had not been that Lord Melbury had most indiscreetly talked
about it among their friends. She went on to say that if all were known,
it would be found that a great deal of historic jewelry had been copied
and the originals sold, and that sensible people kept these things to
themselves. There was something in the way she spoke which I find
difficult to describe, it left a certain impression. Her tone was
disagreeably censorious, yet it evinced a kind of pleasure. The subject
undoubtedly pleased her. She dwelt upon it. I fancied I could detect
some personal pride—I cannot get nearer to it than that.”

He was watching her with interest from between half-closed lids, those
light eyes of his intent.

“Yes—go on.”

“When Miss Holiday disappeared, and after the discovery of her body, I
went back over these first impressions and found in retrospect that they
were considerably intensified. For one thing, it was impossible not to
connect this latest disappearance with that of Maggie Bell a year ago.
But I could not accept a theory which would link the murder of Miss
Holiday with a leakage of military secrets from Dalling Grange.”

“May I ask why?”

She inclined her head.

“I was becoming convinced of a sinister connection between Miss Crewe
and the tragic death of Miss Holiday. Miss Cunningham met this poor
woman coming away from Crewe House on Sunday evening. You informed me
that the police had obtained a statement from a young woman who happened
to pass them on her bicycle. She said that one of them dropped a letter
and Miss Cunningham picked it up. Miss Cunningham’s explanation was that
this letter was one which Miss Holiday pulled out of her overall pocket
when she used her handkerchief. Seeing that the envelope had been opened
and was addressed to Miss Crewe, she considered that it had been picked
up by mistake, and offered, as she was going there, to take it up to
Crewe House. In the brief episode the motive for the murder of Miss
Holiday became plain. The letter contained something so dangerous to
Miss Crewe that she would stick at nothing to ensure that it went no
farther. When the murder of Miss Holiday was followed by an attempt upon
Miss Cunningham, I felt convinced that Miss Crewe was engaged in
something of a criminal nature, and that Miss Cunningham’s life was in
serious danger. But I was not prepared to accept any theory which
involved Miss Crewe in the sale of secrets to a foreign power.”

Frank Abbott opened his eyes.

“You surprise me.”

Miss Silver’s gaze rested on him in a disappointed manner.

“My dear Frank, you are not really thinking. Miss Crewe is an evil and
ruthless woman, but it is never safe to neglect the motives which prompt
a criminal. In the case of Lydia Crewe they are not difficult to
discern. She has an implacable pride of race, a passion amounting to
idolatry for her family, its traditions, its exploits, its accumulated
possessions. Since the Crewes were an integral part of the county, and
the county an integral part of the nation, she would no more be a party
to anything of a treasonable nature than she would neglect to rise to
her feet when the National Anthem was played. But in the business of
robbing her neighbours she was probably well within the family
tradition. History presents one with a continuous picture of the rise
and fall of great families—lands lost by adherence to a losing
cause—lands acquired at a neighbour’s expense through the chance of
being found upon the winning side. I have no doubt that the Crewes had
their ups and downs in just such ways as these, and that Miss Crewe’s
depredations appeared to her in this guise. Everything fitted into this
picture. The complacency which I had observed when she was talking about
the jewel robberies, the touch of personal pride, her assumption that
the conversion of valuable heirlooms was now widespread—all these
things left me in very little doubt as to what had been going on. But it
was Miss Cunningham’s danger which made the situation so urgent. After
you had left me I became more and more uneasy on her account. In the end
I felt impelled to go to the Dower House. I thought I would see if there
was a light in her bedroom. Beyond that I had no plan. As you know, I
most providentially encountered Mr. Lester, and as we were making our
circuit of the house we saw Miss Crewe go in by the secret door.”

He passed a hand over hair already mirror-smooth.

“My dear ma’am, you are always in the right place at the right moment.
In fact, the complete reply to that dreary fallacy—‘Never the time, and
the place, and the loved one all together’.”

“My dear Frank—”

He hastened to forestall rebuke.

“Miss Cunningham owes you her life.”

Miss Silver was casting off. As the last cherry-coloured stitch dropped
from the needles, she said,

“It has all been a terrible shock to her. I do not think she had many
illusions about her brother. She knew him to be weak and drifting, but
she had no suspicion that he was involved in a criminal enterprise, and
no idea at all that the breach between him and Lydia Crewe was no more
than a sham and that in reality he was seeing her constantly and was as
much under her influence as he had ever been. His trial and all that
must come out at it will be a very terrible experience for the poor
woman.”

He hesitated for a moment. Then he said,

“Keep this to yourself. Selby’s for it, of course, but Cunningham isn’t
at all likely to stand his trial. He has had some kind of a seizure. I
gather he is not expected to come round. It would save his sister and
young Cunningham if he didn’t. By the way, the Dalling Grange affair has
been cleared up—the Security people let us know this morning. An
attempt was made to frame Nicholas, and apparently he turned the tables.
The real villain of the piece was Burlington’s trusted private
secretary, Brown. It’s the same old story—a minor indiscretion to start
with, a glass too much, the temptation to magnify his own importance by
appearing to be well informed. Then pressure, the threat of exposure,
blackmail—the whole bag of tricks—you know how it goes. Fingerprints
on a compromising letter which had been planted on Nicholas finally gave
him away. When confronted with them Brown collapsed—one of Kipling’s
‘brittle intellectuals who crack beneath a strain’! So that is that. I
hope you went to bed and slept this morning after being up all night?”

Miss Silver smiled.

“I was more pleasantly engaged.”

“And now what have you been up to?”

She laid her knitting-needles down upon little Josephine’s completed
leggings.

“I attended a wedding. I was giving away the bride.”

“How extremely versatile! Who was it?”

“Rosamond Maxwell. Miss Crewe was sending Jenny away to school today,
and Mr. Lester had persuaded Rosamond to consent to this sudden wedding
in order that he might have the right to act for her in the matter. The
two girls were entirely financially dependent on Miss Crewe. Owing to
Jenny’s long period of invalidism following upon an accident, Rosamond
had been unable to earn anything. The situation was, in fact, so
difficult that an immediate marriage seemed to be the only solution. Mr.
Lester asked me to be present because he felt that Rosamond should have
some support, and they did not like to involve any of Miss Crewe’s
friends in what she was bound to consider an affront.”

Frank whistled.

“Poor old Craig—he’s run into something!”

Miss Silver coughed reprovingly,

“I can assure you that he considers himself extremely fortunate to have
won the love of so good and charming a girl. As Lord Tennyson so aptly
says:

            ‘If I were loved, as I desire to be,
            What is there in the great sphere of the earth,
            And range of evil between death and birth,
            That I should fear—if I were loved by thee?’ ”

Frank sat up laughing.

“Oh, if it’s that way of it, there’s nothing more to say, is there! What
is a mad murderous aunt or two when you and Lord Tennyson approve! She’s
raving, so they won’t hang her anyhow. All that remains is to offer
one’s felicitations, select a suitable gift, and hope for the best. It’s
a mad world anyhow.”

Miss Silver smiled.




                               CHAPTER 46


“Craig, I must go back.”

She sat looking at him, all the bloom and radiance gone. It made him
feel like an executioner. Twenty-four hours, and he had had to bring
that tragic look to her face! Even the brief respite had been hard to
achieve. The evening paper had to be suppressed, a chance taken with the
possibility of some ghastly poster headline, some friendly encounter.
Well, they had had their twenty-four hours. The arrival at his house,
old Nan’s welcome, Jenny’s excitement, Rosamond’s quiet delight, the
feeling that they had reached a place where all the things they had
dreamed of would come true—And now, in the grey morning with rain
beating on the windows and a cold wind blowing, he had had to tell her
about Lydia Crewe.

He knew her so well that he had known what she would say. Now he heard
her say it.

“Craig, I must go back.”

“My darling child!”

She put out her hands to him, and he took them.

“Oh, you ought to have told me before! You oughtn’t to have let me marry
you!”

Her hands were strongly, warmly held.

“Darling, don’t be stupid! Now, will you just listen to me! You are
about to produce all the old clichés, and I don’t want to hear them.
Instead, you will listen to the voice of common sense. To start with,
nowadays people stand or fall by what they do themselves. Nobody cares
two hoots about their relations. Most people have one or two whom they
don’t exactly brag about, you know. To go on with, no one is going to
connect you and Jenny with Miss Crewe unless you make a point of it.”

A sudden colour came into her face.

“Craig, don’t you see I can’t just turn my back and pretend she doesn’t
belong. She did take us in when we had nowhere to go, and she is a
relation—my mother was a Crewe. I can’t walk out and say it’s got
nothing to do with me. Someone must see about the legal part of it. I
can’t just run away and let her think I don’t care. I must go back.”

He said,

“She won’t thank you.”

Rosamond pulled her hands away.

“What does that matter?”

He smiled suddenly.

“No it wouldn’t—to you. All right, darling, we’ll go back. Jenny can
stay here with Nan. You don’t want to drag her into it, I suppose?”

“Oh, _no_!”

Jenny had no wish to return to Hazel Green. The things which had
happened there were things she never meant to think about again. Neither
now nor at any other time would she call back the hour when she had
kneeled behind the stile which led into Vicarage Lane and watched the
beam of a torch slide over something which lay upon the grass verge
beyond—a long, dark something covered with sacking. She would never let
herself think about the blue bead which she had found there. The dark
hours were gone. The bead was gone. She didn’t care whether Aunt Lydia
was mad, or whether she was in prison. The only thing she cared about
was that she need never, never, never see her again. She had Craig for a
brother, and this darling house to live in, and Nan, all comfortable and
rosy and about two yards round the waist, to look after them. Nan was
going to let her make an apple turn-over. She was _nice_.

Rosamond and Craig drove through the rain. He knew now he had always
been sure that Rosamond would go back. She was gentle, but she was
resolute. He laughed suddenly and said,

“You know, my sweet, what you’ve got is a strong, persevering Scottish
conscience.”

“Do you mind very much?”

“I shall get used to it. One of my grandmothers was a Scot, which will
help me to keep my end up.”

It was still raining when they drove up to Crewe House, to find the
police in charge there.

Later in the day they were admitted to see Lydia Crewe. Rosamond had not
Jenny’s gift of being able to shut the door upon what she did not choose
to remember. The interview which followed was to haunt her—the bare
room with its white-washed walls and its smell of varnish—the long
yellow table with Aunt Lydia at one end of it and herself and Craig at
the other—the two policewomen who stood one at the door, and the other
behind Aunt Lydia’s chair. Afterwards she was to remember with a shudder
that there were two. At the time it gave her a vague sense of security.
The mad incessant talking had stopped, but there might still be an
outbreak of violence.

Lydia Crewe sat at the far end of the table, her back stiff, her eyes
hooded. Rosamond’s hands held one another tightly. She said,

“We have come to see what we can do, Aunt Lydia. You will want to see a
solicitor.”

“A solicitor?” Miss Crewe’s tone was haughty in the extreme. “Do you
imagine that I am not already provided with a legal adviser? Mr.
Hawthorn of Hawthorn and Monkshead has done all my business for years.”

Craig said in a low voice,

“They won’t touch the case—not in their line. They’ll recommend
someone, I expect.”

Lydia Crewe said sharply,

“Don’t mumble, Mr. Lester! It’s a deplorable habit! And may I ask just
what business this is of yours?”

Rosamond flushed.

“Aunt Lydia—we are married—”

She lifted her lids and fixed them with a long cold stare.

“Indeed? So this is how you repay all that I have done for you and
Jenny! You seem to have been in most indecent haste!”

Craig said in his pleasant voice,

“I thought that Rosamond and Jenny needed someone to look after them,
Miss Crewe. Now Rosamond and I have come here to see whether there is
anything we can do for you. We are not allowed to stay very long, so
perhaps you will just let us know.”

She kept that staring look, but it had become unfocussed. She said,
“Married—” And then, “I do not know that I should have objected if I
had been properly approached. The important thing is that the name
should go on. You will, of course, take immediate steps to entitle you
to call yourself Crewe. Major Maxwell always refused to do so. A most
stubborn person, and quite unappreciative of the honour we did him in
admitting him to the family.”

When Craig made no reply, she said with extreme sharpness,

“You will take the name—immediately!”

“I think not, Miss Crewe.”

She stood up then, leaned forward with her hands at the table’s edge,
gripping it, and began in a low shaking voice to rehearse the bygone
glories of the Crewes—Sir John who died with Philip Sidney at
Zutphen—Charles, his brother, who sailed against the Armada—Bevis, the
saintly bishop—James, the witty courtier beloved of Charles II—name
after name, generation after generation, whilst her voice rose and a
fire kindled in her eyes. She looked at Rosamond and said,

“My house—my people. And thanks to me they will not die. The great
houses are going down—the life blood has been drained out of them. But
not the Crewes—oh, no, not the Crewes! They are going to be greater
than ever! The old glories will come back! I have seen to that, you
know! There will be money enough!” She repeated the word in a whisper.
“Enough—” and stood there empty and shaken.

The two women closed in on either side of her and took her away.

Rosamond and Craig did not speak. They went back to the hotel where they
had taken a room. When Craig had opened the door and stood aside to let
her pass Rosamond went over to the window. She stood there looking out
but not seeing anything at all. When Craig came to her she put out both
her hands to keep him away. He had seen her pale, but never as pale as
this. She said, low and quite steadily,

“I’m so ashamed—so ashamed—”

He took the hands and found them icy cold.

“My darling, if we start being ashamed of what other people have done,
we’ve got our work cut out. And she is mad. You do realize that, don’t
you?”

“Is she?”

“I don’t think there is any doubt about it. I should say she’d been
heading that way for years.”

A shudder went over her. He came nearer and held her close.

“We’re not going to let it spoil things for us. Do you hear, my sweet?
If you think I’m going to let you go about in sackcloth and ashes, well,
you’ve got another think coming. You know, happy people have got
something to give to the world. That sounds a bit grandiloquent, and I
wouldn’t have the nerve to say it except just to you. But it’s true. We
love each other, we’ve got a right to be happy, and if you go round
disseminating gloom, I shall probably beat you, after which you will be
able to divorce me. And what a lot of good that is going to
be—especially for Jenny!”

“Jenny—”

He put his cheek against hers.

“You know, it strikes me that Jenny can do with a bit of happiness. She
has been living at an abnormal pitch, and she is a lot too old for her
age. What she wants is to relax and be part of a family circle. And live
a normal life—I think probably a day school to start with, and a home
background to give her a sense of security.”

He could feel the tension going out of her. She leaned against him now
instead of stiffening and drawing away. He went on in a quiet everyday
voice.

“That’s what she wants. And that’s what you want too. You won’t bother
about that, but I’m afraid you’ll just have to give it a passing
thought. Unless you are happy, Jenny won’t be happy, and that would be
very bad for Jenny. And quite damnably bad for me. Now are you going to
come off it?”

“You make me sound a most frightful prig.”

“There’s a slight danger in that direction, but it shall be corrected.”

“Oh, Craig!”

“That, darling, was a joke. The first step towards a successful marriage
is for a wife to laugh at her husband’s jokes. So now is your chance!”

Her lips began to tremble. He suddenly pulled her close and kissed her.

“Oh, my darling sweet, you are going to be happy—you _are_!”

There was a sense of release, of things that slipped away into the past
where they belonged. They were in a light place. The sun shone on them.
Rosamond lifted her face and said,

“Yes.”




                           