The ledge was about six inches wide. Candida stood on it with her toes
stubbed against the rock. Her left hand was clenched on a small
projecting knob about level with the top of her head. With the other she
was feeling carefully and methodically for something which she could
catch hold of on her right. There didn’t seem to be anything, but she
went on feeling. In the end she had to come back to the shallow crack
which she had discarded. It would only take the tips of her fingers. By
itself it really wasn’t any good, but it did just give the least little
help to the hand that was clutching the knob. She stood there and
wondered what she was going to do next.

There wasn’t very much that she could do. In fact, to be quite frank and
plain with herself, there wasn’t anything at all. She had got as far as
she could. She couldn’t possibly get any farther. If she looked up, she
could see the ledge which she had been hoping to reach. That is to say,
she could see the jutting rock which was the under part of the ledge,
and it was like a great stone buttress thrusting out from the cliff and
thrusting her away. There was no conceivable means by which she could
get past that overhang—not unless she were a fly and could crawl upside
down. She didn’t let herself look at the beach, because of course that
was the stupidest thing you could do. But whether she looked or not, she
knew very well what she would see—sharp black rocks, and the tide
coming racing in. If it had been deep sea that you could jump off into,
she would have let herself go and have tried for a better place to
climb, but you would want to know that there was a great deal of water
over those rocks before you would take a chance with them. Better think
about something else. Quickly.

It was a funny thing about that ledge. Seen from below, it didn’t look
as if it would be all that difficult to reach. The overhang didn’t show
like this. She had been quite pleased and confident about reaching
it—right up to the very last moment when there was no more foothold or
fingerhold and the thing stuck out over her head like the underside of a
doorstep.

Well, she couldn’t go on, and it wasn’t any use going back. She wasn’t
quite sure how far she had climbed—twenty feet—thirty—forty. But all
the way up from the rocks and the sea there wasn’t anything that would
be better than this, and it was always harder to climb down.

If you can’t go on and you can’t go back, there is only one thing you
can do, and that is stay where you are. The thing that whispers in your
mind and always has something horrid to say said softly, ‘And how long
can you do that?’ Candida had been brought up to have a short way with
the whispering thing. She spoke back to it with spirit.

‘As long as I choose!’

The thing refused to be snubbed.

‘It will be dark in less than an hour. You can’t stand here all night.’

Candida said, ‘I can stand here as long as I’ve got to.’ She clenched
her fingers on the rocky knob and called, ‘Cooee! Cooee!’

Things can’t talk to you when you are calling with all your might, but
the sound went out of her against the cliff wall and flattened there.
Anyone would have to have very sharp ears if they were to hear it
against the noise of the tide coming in.

Stephen Eversley had very sharp ears. He was some way out, because even
if you knew the coast as well as he did, you didn’t take a boat in past
the Black Sisters if you could help it. He was making for the narrow bay
which the smugglers used to use. A trap if you didn’t know your way,
safe enough if you did. Sound carries over water, and the way the cliff
curved favoured Candida’s cry. He heard it and looking shoreward he saw
her dark against the rock in her schoolgirl serge. It was not yet dusk
but the air had begun to thicken.

He rowed in as far as he dared. He mustn’t make it too far, but he had
to get within hailing distance, and he thought he could do that. Without
word from her, there was no deciding what to do next. If she had a
reasonable foot and hand hold, he could land in the cove, fetch help,
and get at her from the top of the cliff. But if she couldn’t be sure of
holding on, he would have to work along the rock face to the ledge just
over her head and get her up on to that. The rope he had in the boat
would be long enough. It would mean staying there all night, because by
the time they were through it would be too dark to get back along the
cliff. It was going to be a tricky business anyhow.

As soon as he got near enough he called out to her.

‘Hi! You there on the cliff! What sort of hold have you got?’

The answer came back faintly and in one word.

‘Fair!’

‘Can—you—hold—on—for—say—forty—minutes?’

Even as he said it, he knew she couldn’t.

He got back two words.

‘I’ll—try.’

It wasn’t good enough. He would have to make it single-handed. He called
again.

‘I’ll—get—to—you—before—that! About—a—quarter—of—an—hour!
I’ll—be—seeing—you! Hold—on!’

It was much easier to hold on now that she knew help was coming. The
nasty whispering voice went away and she began to make pictures in her
mind. Not the horrid sort which showed you all the things you were
shutting your eyes against—a dead drop down to the beach and wet black
rocks with points as sharp as needles. Not that kind at all, but the
romantic sort out of the old long-ago tales—Andromeda chained to a
cliff in Greece with the monster coming in out of a blue sea, and
Perseus flashing down with wings on his feet to turn the looming horror
into stone.

The time went by.

It was only when she heard Stephen on the cliff that she was afraid
again. The sound came from away to the left, and all at once she began
to wonder how he was going to reach her, and whether she could go on
holding on. Her feet were stiff and numb with all her weight thrown
forward. She couldn’t really feel her fingers any more. Suppose they
just slid away from the stone and she tilted over—outwards—and
back—and down. But when he spoke from the ledge over her head and said,
‘Are you all right?’ she heard herself say, ‘Yes.’

A rope came dangling down. It had a noose at the end of it. What she had
to do was to get it under her armpit. She would have to let go of the
crack on her right and work the rope along until it was over her head
and supporting the shoulder. Stephen lay on the ledge and looked over it
and told her what to do. All the things were impossible, but he had the
sort of voice that made you feel you could do impossible things, and
somehow they got done.

When the rope was round her body, she had to edge to the left along the
crack until there wasn’t really any foothold at all. She couldn’t have
done it without the rope. It brought her just far enough out from under
the overhang for him to be able to drag her up on to the ledge.

She lay on the rough stone and there was no more strength in her. She
felt like a doll with the sawdust all run out—horrid limp arms and legs
and a wobbling head. And then a hand on her shoulder, and a voice which
said,

‘You’re all right now. Be careful how you move—the ledge isn’t very
wide.’

Oddly enough, that made her feel worse than anything else. There were
pins and needles in her hands and feet, and something that went round
and round in her head. Before she knew what she was doing she was
feeling for his hand and clutching it as if she would never let it go.
That was one of the things she was ashamed about afterwards. As soon as
she could get hold of her voice she said, ‘How much room is there?’ and
he laughed.

‘Oh, I won’t let you fall! Just come this way a little and you can sit
up with the cliff at your back. We’re perfectly safe, but I’m afraid
we’ll have to stay here until it’s light. It’s too dark to get back the
way I came. I didn’t like to leave you long enough to go and fetch
help—you were in a pretty bad position. And we’ll be all right here
until the morning. Perhaps we had better exchange names. I’m Stephen
Eversley, and I’m down here on a holiday. I was out watching birds and
taking photographs, which is why I had a rope in the boat. I couldn’t
have got you up without it. I suppose you are on holiday too. I’m on my
own, and no one will bother about me, but your people will get the wind
up, so we may have a search party along almost any time.’

It was nice to feel the cliff at her back. The ledge was three or four
feet wide and it ran along quite a way, getting narrower until it
disappeared. There was room to stretch out her feet. She looked out over
the darkening sea and said,

‘Oh, I don’t know. They weren’t getting down till pretty late.’

‘Who weren’t?’

‘The people I was going to stay with, Monica Carson and her mother.
We’re at school together, and Mrs. Carson asked me for part of the
holidays. My train got in at four, and their’s wasn’t until six, so I
was to go to the place where they had booked our rooms—it’s a private
hotel called Sea View—and have tea and get unpacked. But when I got
there, Mrs. Carson had telephoned to say they were doing some shopping
in London and they wouldn’t be down until eight o’clock, so I went for a
walk.’

He gave a half laugh.

‘And nobody had ever told you about the tide coming in! You let yourself
get caught between the points, and then tried to climb up the cliff. How
old are you?’

‘I’m fifteen and a half. And of course I know about tides! I asked—I
asked most particularly.’

‘Who did you ask?’

‘It was someone in the hotel. There were two old ladies, and they said
it wouldn’t be high tide until about eleven, so of course I thought it
would be perfectly safe to walk along the beach.’

‘That depends upon how much beach there is. And the tide is high at a
quarter to nine!’

She turned and stared at him. Just a shape in the dusk—a shape and a
voice. But she wasn’t thinking about that—it was what he had just said
about the tide. If it was high at a quarter to nine. . . She cut in,
quick and breathless,

‘Then why did she say it wasn’t high until eleven?’

His shoulder jerked.

‘How do I know?’

‘She did say high tide at eleven.’

‘I suppose the simple answer is that she didn’t know any more than you
did.’

‘Then why did she say she did?’

He shrugged again.

‘People are like that. If you ask them the way, they will practically
never say they don’t know. They just waffle on, misdirecting you. I
thought you said there were two of them. Why do you say “she”?’

‘Well, really only one of them spoke. The other mostly stood there and
nodded. I’d been writing my name in the book. There’s a little window
between the office and the hall, and they came up on either side and
looked over my shoulder. One of them said, “Is your name Candida Sayle?”
and I said yes, it was. I thought it was rude of them to look over my
shoulder, and I didn’t want to go on talking, so I began to walk away.
But they followed me, and the one who had spoken said, “That is a very
unusual name.” They were quite old, but they were dressed exactly alike.
Honestly, they were odd! I wanted to get away from them, so I said I was
going for a walk. And that was when she said it would be nice along the
beach and the tide wasn’t high until eleven.’

‘It sounds as if they were barmy.’

‘It does rather.’

He was thinking that strangers ought to know better than to mix and
meddle with the tides. They must have been strangers, because anyone who
lived here would know that this was a dangerous strip of coast.

If it had been later in the year, Candida would hardly have got very far
on her walk without somebody warning her, but on a chilly April evening
it wasn’t likely that there would be anyone down on the beaches after
tea. Candida’s old ladies were definitely a menace. He said so.

‘And I hope your friend will put it across them for misleading you. It
might have been serious.’

‘Do you suppose they’ll say anything? I don’t.’

‘They’ll be bound to. Mrs.—what’s her name—Carson will be arriving. If
you signed your name, she’ll know you got to the hotel, and she’ll be
wondering where you are. She’ll be in a state, and your old ladies will
be bound to say they spoke to you. Somebody probably saw them doing it.
And if they say you were going for a walk along the beach, there’s bound
to be a search-party out looking for you before long. Quite a bright
thought. We’re all right here, but it will be cold before morning.’

There was no search-party, because Mrs. Carson, having started the day
at 6 a.m. and crowded it with a great deal of fatiguing and mostly
unnecessary exertion, was overtaken by a rather alarming fainting fit at
the moment when she ought to have been catching her train to Eastcliff.
She was carried into the Station Hotel and a doctor sent for. Monica, a
good deal frightened, rang up Sea View to say that her mother was ill,
and that she would ring up again in the morning. The line was not at all
clear. Candida’s name reached her vaguely. She said, ‘Oh, I hope we’ll
get down in the morning, but if we can’t, she will just have to go
home.’ After which she rang off.

Stephen and Candida knew nothing of all this. They sat on the ledge and
talked. She told him that she lived with an aunt who had brought her up.

‘Her name is Sayle too—Barbara Sayle. She is my father’s sister. She
gardens all the time. My father and mother were torpedoed in the war.
Aunt Barbara is a pet.’

Stephen was perfectly right about the cold. He made her sit close up to
him and put his arm round her. Sometimes they dozed, and sometimes they
talked. He was going to be an architect. He hoped to pass his final exam
in the summer, after which there was a place for him in an uncle’s firm.
It wouldn’t be a bad job as jobs went, only working for relations wasn’t
always the best thing for you. Everyone thought you were being let down
easy, but sometimes it didn’t work out that way at all.

‘Richard is all right of course. As a matter of fact he’s a very fine
chap, but he’s going to expect me to be about twice as good as there’s
any hope of my being—just because I’m his nephew. Of course it’s a
tremendous chance.’

A drowsy voice said against his shoulder, ‘I don’t see why—you
shouldn’t be—quite as good—as he is—’

He found himself talking about the houses Richard Eversley had built and
the houses he hoped to build himself. Her head was warm against his
shoulder. It was like talking to himself. Sometimes he knew that she was
asleep. Sometimes quite suddenly she spoke. Once she said, ‘You can do
anything—if you try.’ And when he came back with, ‘That’s nonsense,’
she went off into a murmur of words which sounded like, ‘If
you—really—want to—’

The night went by.

They woke in the dawn, cold and stiff. Each saw the other clearly for
the first time. Candida rubbed her eyes and stretched. The sea was the
colour of the pewter plates on Aunt Barbara’s dresser. It was very calm
and still. The sky was an even grey, with a yellow streak low down in
the east where it touched the water. There was no breeze. Everything
smelled very cold, and fresh, and clean. There was a salty taste on her
lips. She looked at Stephen and saw him stretching too—a tall,
loose-limbed young man of two or three and twenty with a lot of
sun-burned hair. He wore an open-necked shirt under an old tweed jacket,
and he was tanned to almost the same colour. His grey eyes were light
against the brown of his skin. They looked back at her. What he saw was
a girl with dark blue eyes and chestnut hair in a plait. The hair was
all ruffled up where it had rubbed against his shoulder. The eyes were
good, the features emerging from a soft roundness, the mouth wide and
full, and the teeth very white. They looked at one another and laughed.




                              Chapter One


More than five years later Candida was reading a letter. It was ten days
since Barbara Sayle’s funeral, and there had been a great many letters
to read and to answer. Everyone had been very kind. She had written the
same things over and over again until they almost wrote themselves. What
it all added up to was that Barbara was gone. She had been ill for three
years, and Candida had nursed her. Now that it was all over, there was
practically no money, and she would have to look for a job. The bother
was that she wasn’t trained. She had left school and come home to look
after Barbara.

And now Barbara was gone.

All the letters which she had been answering had been concerned with
this one thing, but the letter which she had just opened was different.
It wasn’t about Barbara at all, it was about herself. She sat by the
window reading it, with the wintry light slanting in across the
expensive paper and the old-fashioned pointed writing. There was an
embossed address in the top right-hand corner:

                               Underhill,
                                  Retley.

The letter began, ‘My dear Candida’, and it was signed, ‘Olivia
Benevent’. She read:

    ‘_My dear Candida_,

    ‘_I am writing to condole with you on your recent bereavement.
    The unhappy quarrel consequent on your grandmother’s marriage
    having interrupted normal intercourse between her and the rest
    of the family, my sister Cara and I were never afforded an
    opportunity of making the acquaintance of our nephew Richard and
    his wife, or of our niece Barbara. Now that they are dead, there
    would not seem to be any reason why this regrettable quarrel
    should be carried on into a third generation. As the daughter of
    our nephew Richard you are our only surviving relative. Your
    grandmother, Candida Benevent, was our sister. Her marriage to
    John Sayle removed her from the family circle. We invite you to
    return to it. My sister Cara and I will be glad if you will pay
    us a visit. The Benevents come of an old and noble family, and
    we feel that their last descendant should know something of its
    history and traditions._

    _Hoping that you will see your way to accepting an invitation
    which, I can assure you, is very cordially extended, I sign
    myself for the first but, I hope, not for the last time,_

                                               _Your great-aunt,_
                                                _Olivia Benevent._’

Candida looked at the letter with some rather mixed feelings. She knew
that her grandmother’s name had been Candida Benevent, and she knew that
there had been a family quarrel, but that was about as far as it went.
What the quarrel was about, why it had never been made up, and whether
there were any Benevent relations, she really had had no idea. Perhaps
Barbara didn’t know either. Perhaps she knew and didn’t bother her head
about it. She was the sort of person who mightn’t. An old quarrel might
just not have seemed worth bothering about. And Candida Benevent had
died when her children were quite young—there had been no living link
with the family she had left behind her.

When she showed the letter to Everard Mortimer, who was Barbara Sayle’s
solicitor, she discovered that he knew no more about the quarrel than
she did herself, but he strongly advised her to accept Miss Benevent’s
invitation. He was a pleasant young man in his early thirties with a
modern attitude towards the family quarrels of two generations ago.

‘Cutting people out of wills and washing your hands of them was rather
in the Victorian tradition. People are a bit more tolerant nowadays. I
think you certainly ought to accept the olive branch and go and stay
with the old ladies. You seem to be their only relation, and that might
be important. Your aunt’s annuity stopped when she died. She had the
cottage on a lease, and by the time everything is cleared up you won’t
have more than about twenty-five pounds a year.’

A bright carnation colour came up under Candida’s fair skin. It made her
eyes look very dark and very blue, and her lashes very black. Everard
Mortimer found himself noticing the contrast with her chestnut hair. He
found it pleasing. It occurred to him that if she were really going to
be something of an heiress—and that was what Miss Olivia Benevent’s
letter sounded like—she would not lack for suitors. Even with no more
than twenty-five pounds a year there might be quite a queue. He had a
fleeting glimpse of himself at the head of it. He allowed his manner to
become a little warmer.

Barbara Sayle had never spoken of her mother’s family. The old
great-aunts might have nothing to leave. On the other hand they might
have quite a lot. All over the place there were old ladies with property
to leave and no very clear idea of how they were going to leave it. He
could think of half a dozen amongst his own clients. The making and
unmaking of wills was a recreation to them. It gave them a sense of
importance, a sense of power. They liked to feel that they would have a
hand in the affairs of the younger generations. There was old Miss
Crabtree. Her niece didn’t dare to get married and leave her for fear of
being cut out of her will, and if she would have been willing to risk
it, her fiancé wouldn’t. There was Mrs. Barker, whose elderly daughter
had never been allowed to have either a job or a penny of her own—had
to go to her mother for bus fares and didn’t know how to write a cheque.
And there was Miss Robinson, who made a new will regularly every three
months, and put in first one and then another of a large circle of
relatives as principal legatee. It was like a game of musical chairs.
One day the tune would stop and someone would scoop the lot. Well, the
Miss Benevents must be pretty old. It wouldn’t do Candida Sayle any harm
to make up the family quarrel and pay them a little attention. With that
new warmth in voice and manner, he advised her to do so.




                              Chapter Two


Candida arrived at Retley on a February afternoon. She hadn’t expected
anyone to meet her, and no one did. She found a taxi, tipped the porter
who carried her suit-cases, and was rattled away over the stones of the
station approach. There was a yellow gloom and drizzle of rain. The
lamps were not yet lighted, and she could not feel that she was seeing
Retley at its best.

They passed through a street with some good shops, and a number of
narrow ones with tall old houses. After that, the usual jumble of
bungalows and council houses, until quite suddenly there were open
fields and hedges on either side. They passed an inn with a swinging
sign, and a little farther on a petrol station, and then just fields and
hedges, hedges and fields. She had begun to wonder how much farther it
was going to be, when they turned sharply to the left and the ground
began to rise.

Presently she made out a wall with iron gates that stood open. The drive
was like a dark tunnel, and when they emerged it was not into the light
but into a deep and gloomy dusk. The house stood up before them like a
black cliff, and the hill stood up behind the house. She stepped back
across the gravel sweep and stared at it. There it was—and that was why
the house was called Underhill. The hillside must have been cut away to
get a level site on which to build, and the house looked as if it was
jammed right up against it. What an extraordinary idea, and how
dreadfully dark all the back rooms must be.

She returned, skirting the taxi, to the worn stone steps which went up
under the shadow of a porch. For the first time it occurred to her that
the house must be very old. These steps had been hallowed out by the
passing feet of many generations. It seemed odd to find that there was
an electric bell.

The taxi driver said, ‘I’ve rung, miss,’ and as he spoke the door swung
in. An elderly woman in a black dress stood there. There was a light in
the hall behind her—a dark place fitfully illuminated. The woman had
white hair. It stood out against the glow like a nimbus. She said in a
deep voice and with a foreign accent,

‘You will come in. He will carry the cases. I have a half-crown for him.
The ladies, they wait you in the drawing-room. I will show you.
There—across the hall—the first door. Go in. I see to everything.’

Candida crossed the hall. It was hung with tapestry which gave out a
mouldy smell. For the most part the subject was lost in gloom and grime,
but from a rather horrid glimpse of a sword and a severed head she
conjectured that this was perhaps just as well. She came to the door to
which she had been directed and opened it.

There was a black lacquer screen, and beyond it a blaze of light. She
came round the screen into the room. There were three crystal
chandeliers. The candles for which they were made had been replaced by
electricity, and the effect was brilliant beyond belief. The sheen
dazzled upon the white and gold panelled walls and was reflected back
from a ceiling powdered with golden stars. There was a white carpet,
white velvet curtains fringed with gold, and chair and sofa covers of
thickly ribbed ivory corduroy. The rest of the furniture consisted of
gilded cabinets and marble tables with carved and gilded legs placed in
stiff symmetry along the walls.

As Candida stood blinking on the threshold, the Misses Benevent rose
from two small golden chairs placed on either side of the hearth.

Against all that white and gold they looked very small and black—two
little dark women in black taffeta dresses with spreading skirts and
tightly fitting bodices. The dresses were exactly alike, and so were the
collars of old lace, each fastened by a diamond star. Candida saw the
dresses first, but they were not the only things which were alike. There
was the strongest possible resemblance of figure, face, and feature.
Both were little and thin, both had small features, neatly arched
eyebrows, and black eyes, and, most remarkably, neither of them appeared
to have a grey hair. They were her grandmother’s sisters but the small
erectly carried heads were covered with shining black hair quite
elaborately dressed. Grey would have been kinder to the little pinched
faces and the sallow skins.

They did not move to meet her, but stood there against the background of
a portentous marble mantelpiece. Walking up to them was rather like
being presented at Court. She had to repress the feeling that a curtsy
would be appropriate. Her hand was briefly taken, her cheek was briefly
touched. Twice. Each Miss Benevent said, ‘How do you do?’ and the
ceremony was over.

There was a little silence whilst they looked at her. From over the
mantelpiece a mirror in a gilt frame reflected the scene—Candida in her
grey coat, her bright hair showing under a matching beret, and a flush
on her cheek because the room was hot and strange and she changed colour
easily, and the little black ladies looking at her like a pair of
puppets waiting to be jerked into life by an unseen string. They stared
at her, and the string jerked. The one on her right said,

‘I am Olivia Benevent. This is my sister Cara. You are Candida Sayle.
You do not resemble the Benevents at all. It is a pity.’

The voice was clear, formal, and precise. There was nothing to soften
the words. Miss Cara echoed them on a note of regret.

‘It is a great pity.’

Seen close at hand the likeness to her sister was that of a copy which
has been too often repeated and is blurred at the edges.

Candida wanted to say ‘Why?’ but she thought she had better not. She was
unable to feel sorry that she was not thin and black and dry, but she
had been nicely brought up. She smiled and said,

‘Barbara said I was like my father.’

The Miss Benevents shook their heads regretfully. They spoke in unison.

‘He must have taken after the Sayles. A very great pity.’

Miss Olivia stepped back and pressed a bell.

‘You will like to go to your room. Anna will take you up. Tea will be
served as soon as you are ready.’

Anna was the woman who had admitted her. She appeared now at the door,
talking and laughing.

‘He is an impudent one, that driver. Do you know what he said to me?
“Foreign, aren’t you?”—just like that. Impudence! “British subject,” I
said to him. “And nothing for you to look saucy about either. I’ve lived
longer in England than you, my young man, and that I will tell anyone!
Fifty years I have lived here, and that is a great deal more than you
have done!” And he whistled and said, “Strike me pink!” ’

Miss Olivia tapped with her foot on the white hearth-rug.

‘That is enough, Anna. Take Miss Candida to her room. You talk too
much.’

Anna shrugged her shoulders.

‘If one does not talk one might as well be dumb.’

‘And we will have tea immediately. Joseph can bring it.’

Candida followed Anna into the hall. The stair went up on the left-hand
side to a landing from which a passage ran off on either side. They took
the one on the left, Anna talking all the time.

‘Of all houses this is the most inconvenient. All the time you must look
where you are going. See, here there are three steps up, and presently
there will be two steps down again. They must have wanted to break
someone’s neck when they built like this. Now we go round the corner and
up four more steps. Here on the right is a bathroom. This is your room
opposite.’ She threw open a door and switched on the light.

The room which sprang into view was oddly shaped. It ran away into an
alcove on one side of the hearth, and the whole of the recess was lined
with books. Perhaps it was this which made the place seem dark, or
perhaps it would have been dark anyhow with its low ceiling crossed by a
beam, curtains and bedspread of a deep shade of maroon, and a carpet
whose pattern had become indistinguishable. The walls were covered with
what she afterwards found was a Morris paper. At first sight it merely
presented an appearance of general gloom, but by the light of day and a
more particular inspection it disclosed a pattern of spring flowers
massed against a background of olive green. She was glad to see that a
small electric fire had been imposed on the narrow Victorian grate. Anna
showed her the switch.

‘You will turn it on when you want. Thank God, we have a good supply.
For ten years I lived with paraffin lamps. Now, no thank you—I have
better things to do with my time! You will turn on the fire, and so you
will not find it cold. It was put in specially for you. Three years
since anyone slept here, but with this good little fire you will not be
cold.’

Candida looked past the fire at the alcove.

‘What a lot of books! Whose room used it to be?’

There was the sort of silence which you can’t help noticing. Something
made Candida ask her question again.

‘You said it hadn’t been used for three years. Whose room was it before
that?’

Anna stood looking at her with her hair very white above the olive skin
and dark eyes. She made an effort, looked away, and said,

‘It was Mr. Alan Thompson’s room. He has been gone three years.’

‘Who was he?’

‘He was the ladies’ secretary. They were very fond of him. He was
ungrateful—he disappointed them very much. It will be better you do not
speak of him—it is better no one speaks.’

But Candida went on speaking. She didn’t know why. It just seemed as if
she had to.

‘What did he do?’

‘He ran away. He took things—jewels—money. He took them, and he ran
away. Their hearts were broken. They were ill. They went away and they
travelled. The house was shut up. They do not speak of him ever—we
should not have spoken of him. But you are of the family—perhaps it is
better you should know. And they are happy again now. Mr. Derek makes
them happy—he is young, he is gay. They do not think about that Alan
any more. He is gone, and for us too. I speak too much—they have always
said so. See, here is the bell. If you want anything, you ring it and
Nella will come. She is my great-niece, just as you are to Miss Olivia
and Miss Cara. But she has been born in England—she does not even speak
Italian any more. She speaks like a London girl, and sometimes she is
saucy. She is one of the new-fashioned ones—service is not good enough
for her. She only comes because I say so, and because I have money saved
and she does not wish me to leave it to my brother’s grand-daughter in
Italy. Also the wages are very good. There is a young man whom she
wishes to marry, and he encourages her to come. “Think what everything
costs,” he says, “and think how you can save—good money coming in every
week and not a penny going out! We will buy the suite for the lounge.”
And Nella, she tosses the head and she says if the money is hers, it
will be for her to say what way it is spent. But she comes. It is true
that she grumbles every day, but she will stay till she has saved the
money for the suite, and perhaps a little longer because of my brother’s
grand-daughter in Italy.’ She broke off laughing. ‘It is true what Miss
Olivia says, I talk too much. If you want anything, you ring for Nella,
and if she does not do everything you say, you speak to me and I scold
her. Now I go and tell Joseph to bring the tea.’




                             Chapter Three


Joseph had started life as Giuseppe in a newly arrived Italian family
some fifty years before. He had now been Joseph for most of that time,
and he spoke with much less accent than Anna. They had married as a
matter of convenience. He was dark and of medium height, with the manner
of a superior upper servant. When he had set down the tea-tray and gone
out of the room, the Miss Benevents told Candida all about him and Anna,
speaking in alternate sentences.

‘He served in the first world war and was wounded.’

‘He was lame for quite a long time.’

‘He has been with us ever since he recovered.’

‘He was, fortunately, too old to be called up in the last war.’

‘He is not at all suited to be a soldier.’

‘He and Anna got married instead. It is more convenient that way.’

‘It is much more convenient.’

They did not give Candida time to say anything. She sat on a small gilt
chair and balanced a fragile cup upon a slippery saucer. The china was
very good and very thin. The saucer was the kind that has no hollow to
keep the cup in its place.

Miss Olivia continued the discourse.

‘We are very fortunately situated as regards our staff. Anna’s niece
Nella looks after the bedrooms, and a woman comes out from Retley on a
bicycle.’

‘Or on the bus if the weather is bad,’ said Miss Cara.

‘It is all very convenient. Let me cut you some of this cake.’

‘Anna makes very good cakes,’ said Miss Cara.

As they sat one on either side of her, Candida was obliged to keep on
turning her head. It seemed rude not to look at the aunt who was
speaking, but she had no sooner turned towards one than the other took
up the tale. They were really very much alike, but she thought that she
would know them apart. Miss Olivia had a more decided voice and manner
than Miss Cara, and she definitely took the lead where Cara merely
echoed and agreed. Olivia had a small brown mole high up on her right
cheek like a patch. Candida wondered if they were twins. And she
wondered just how long she was going to be able to bear this visit.

Miss Olivia poured a second cup of tea from an ornate and capacious pot.

‘This tea-service came into the family in 1845 when Gerald Benevent
married Augusta Cloudsley. Her mother was the Honourable Fanny Lentine,
a daughter of Lord Ledborough, but her father was a wealthy City
merchant. The tea-service is handsome and valuable, but we have always
regarded the marriage as something of a mésalliance.’

‘It is the only time that we have ever been connected with trade,’ said
Miss Cara.

The room was very warm and the lights very dazzling. Candida began to
have that slightly floating feeling which comes with the onset of sleep.
She had had many wakeful nights in the last days of Barbara’s life, and
since her death she had been working very hard, cleaning, clearing,
sorting, and packing up. Last night she had been too tired to sleep at
all. The lights shimmered overhead and the voices of the little black
ladies came and went.

She must have slipped from waking into sleeping, because just for a
moment the white drawing-room was gone, and the glittering chandeliers.
Instead there was a narrow dark hall with a little window through into a
room next door. She had been signing her name in a book which lay on a
ledge in front of the window. The ink in the pen which she had laid down
was still wet. The name was black on the page of the open book—Candida
Sayle. She turned away from it, and there were two little black ladies
looking over her shoulders, one on either side, in the dark hall. She
couldn’t see them well because the hall was so dark. One of them said,

‘Candida Sayle—a very unusual name,’ and the other one nodded.

She woke up with a jerk. Her cup was sliding in the smooth flat saucer.
The dream could really only have lasted for a moment, because the cup
would have started to slide at once, and it hadn’t had time to fall. How
awful if it had fallen on to the carpet! She could almost see the puddle
of tea and broken bits. The shock of it woke her right up. She put down
the cup and saucer on the tray, and heard Miss Olivia say,

‘The china is French. It belonged to my grandmother. Not one piece has
ever been broken.’

A sense of the narrowness of her escape quite swamped the memory of the
dream. After a few more particulars about the tea-set and its original
owner, who must have been her own great-great-grandmother, the
conversation drifted to other objects in the room. The mirror over the
mantelpiece had been brought from Holland by Edward Benevent in 1830.
The mantelpiece itself had been imported from Italy by his father.

‘He did not, of course, go there himself,’ said Miss Olivia. ‘No
Benevent has ever set foot in that country since our ancestor left it in
the seventeenth century. While their rights were not admitted and the
relationship ignored it would have been beneath their dignity to do so.
However strongly the ancestral tie is felt, however strongly the family
tradition is observed, we could never consent to visit Italy except on
the clear understanding that we are true and legitimate descendants of
the ducal house of Benevento.’

Miss Cara shook her head.

‘We could never consent.’

Since Candida had not the slightest idea what they were talking about,
she thought she had better not say anything at all. There was,
apparently, no need for her to do so. Stiffly upright behind the heavily
embossed tray, the teapot, the water jug, the enormous sugar-basin of
Augusta Cloudsley’s tea equipage, Miss Olivia continued to talk. She may
or may not have noticed a slight vagueness in Candida’s expression, but
she stopped suddenly in the midst of some observations on the value of
family traditions and the necessity of maintaining them, to say in a
sharpened voice,

‘You are, of course, acquainted with our family history.’

Candida’s colour rose.

‘Well—I’m afraid—’

‘Incredible! I could not have believed it! Your grandmother was, after
all, our sister. I believe that she did not die until her children were
nine and ten years of age—quite old enough to have been grounded in the
historical facts. But of course her marriage—my father would neither
acknowledge nor condone it—she may have found the subject too painful.’

Miss Cara raised a lace-edged handkerchief to the tip of her nose and
sniffed.

‘Oh, _yes_.’

Miss Olivia threw her a reproving glance.

‘It will be for us to supply the deficiency—’ she began, when the door
opened and a young man came into the room. He was of medium height with
brown eyes, very dark hair, and a most charming smile. He was, in fact,
an extraordinarily handsome and vital creature. The Miss Benevents’
faces lighted up at the sight of him, their small pinched features
relaxed, and the air of solemnity was gone. Speaking both together, they
said,

‘Derek!’ Miss Cara adding, ‘My dear boy!’

He came up to the table and bent to kiss them both. Miss Olivia
introduced him.

‘This is our secretary and adopted nephew, Derek Burdon. He is compiling
a history of the family. He has recently been in Italy and has returned
with some very valuable additional material. He has not been able to
sort and arrange it yet—these things take time. We thought perhaps it
might interest you to help him in his labours.’

Candida thought, ‘Well it will be something to do.’ She met a sparkling
glance of the brown eyes, and the prospect brightened a little. He
looked as if the family history would not bulk so largely as to preclude
the possibility of a few lighter moments. In fact he was young, and he
looked as if he might be fun. She was to learn that he was an adept at
getting his own way with the old ladies and at putting off until at
least the day after tomorrow whatever he did not incline towards doing
today. To the suggestion that he and Candida might get to work on some
of the Italian material in the morning he came back with,

‘But if you want her to have driving lessons she really ought to start
at once. I thought if we went into Retley after breakfast she could
begin right away. There’s no time like the present. I spoke to Fox about
it this morning.’

Candida had a bewildered feeling. She looked at Miss Olivia, and
received a slight wintry smile.

‘I suppose that you do not drive.’

‘No, but—’

She would have liked to say, ‘How on earth do you know?’ but she
restrained herself. Only if Candida Benevent and her descendants had
been so completely dismissed from the family consciousness, how on earth
did her sisters know whether Candida’s grand-daughter could drive or
not?

Miss Olivia answered the unspoken question.

‘John Sayle was not a man of any means. His son and daughter were
brought up in a very moderate manner. Barbara would certainly not have
been in a position to own a car.’

Miss Cara said, ‘Oh, dear no,’ and Miss Olivia resumed,

‘My father would not allow of any communication, but he took steps to
inform himself of such events as births and deaths. When he passed away
we continued on the same lines. We have thus always been aware of our
niece Barbara’s circumstances and whereabouts. Since your parents died
young and were in no position to provide for you, your education must
have been quite a strain upon her resources. There would have been no
money left over for such things as a car.’

‘Oh, none at all,’ said Miss Cara.

Her sister went on as if she had not spoken.

‘But we feel that being able to drive may now be considered a most
useful accomplishment. We thought that you would perhaps like to have
lessons and qualify for a driving-licence during your visit. We had
intended to lead up to the subject, but Derek has forestalled us.’

He laughed ruefully.

‘I’ve put my foot in it again!’

Both ladies beamed at him.

‘You are sometimes too impetuous, dear boy.’

There was a point in Miss Olivia’s speech when there had been a pricking
of angry tears behind Candida’s eyes. Never for a single moment had
Barbara allowed her to feel herself a burden. They had been happy
together—they had been happy. She clenched her hands until the nails
ran into the palms.

Miss Olivia went on talking for long enough to let that pricking anger
subside. She had always wanted to learn to drive, and the lessons would
probably save her life. They would mean going into Retley and getting
away from Underhill for at the very least an hour at a time, and with
any luck a good bit more than that. If she and Derek were to go off on
their own, she thought there might be ways and means of spinning out the
time—letters for the post, errands to the shops, morning coffee. She
met Derek’s eye and found it sparkling with mischief. Her spirits began
to rise. She listened intelligently whilst Miss Olivia told her how Ugo
di Benevento fled from Italy in the middle of the seventeenth century,
taking with him what had come afterwards to be known as the Benevento
Treasure.

‘He had got into some trouble of a political nature—it was so very easy
in those days—and the family cast him off in what we have always
considered to be an extremely cowardly manner. It may perhaps account
for the misfortunes which fell upon them afterwards. As you will no
doubt remember, Napoleon in 1806 bestowed what had been the ancient
Duchy upon the upstart Talleyrand, with the title of Prince of
Benevento. At the fall of Napoleon the province became once more a part
of the Papal territories until 1860, when it was united to the kingdom
of Italy. Our ancestor was well received over here. He married an
heiress of the name of Anne Coghill and built this house. There have
been alterations and additions of course. This room was, for instance,
extended and greatly improved during the eighteenth century. In the
generations since Ugo there have been many advantageous marriages. The
Italian ending to the name was dropped, and Benevents have married into
some of the noblest families in England. My father’s indignation at
Candida’s mésalliance arose from this fact. John Sayle’s father was, I
believe, a mere yeoman farmer. That his son took orders can hardly be
said to excuse her.’

Candida resigned herself. The great-aunts existed in the past—useless
to try and disinter them. She really felt a good deal prouder of the
yeoman farmer than of Ugo who had run away with the family jewels and
married an heiress, but it was no use saying so.

Miss Olivia continued to rehearse the births, marriages, and deaths of
the Benevents, with Miss Cara nodding assent and occasionally putting in
a word or two. It all felt very stiff and unreal, but in a sort of way
it was interesting, like those stiff medieval pictures which it was so
hard to relate to the living, breathing human beings who had sat for
them. They had had real joys and sorrows, and hopes and fears. They had
lost people whom they loved. They had lost their hearts, their heads,
their lives. They had fought and conquered, or fought and been defeated.
There was a kind of fascination about making them come alive and be real
again. Her mood changed insensibly. After all, these were her people
too—she ought to know something about them. Her eyes brightened and her
colour rose.

Derek Burdon watched her with genuine admiration. She might have been a
pale, flabby girl with dead-fish eyes, or one of those skinny little
things with bones instead of curves. Whatever she had been, he would
have had to follow her round and amuse her. As it was, his luck was in.

The discourse on the Benevent family went on and on.




                              Chapter Four


Candida went up to bed that night with the feeling that it wasn’t going
to be so bad. The evening meal had been formally served by Joseph in a
cavernous dining-room from whose gloomy walls dark family portraits
frowned upon the scene. But the meal itself was beautifully cooked—a
soup, a fish soufflé, a sweet. And then the white drawing-room again.

It appeared that Derek had a pleasant voice and a light touch upon the
piano, a lordly grand in a cream enamelled case. Candida found herself
diverted to that end of the room, asked if she knew this or that,
persuaded to join her own voice in a light duet. The Miss Benevents
beamed approval and the evening passed very pleasantly.

When she got up to her room there was a girl there putting a hot
water-bottle in the bed, rather pretty with a dark lively look. Candida
had a friendly smile.

‘Oh, thank you. Are you Nella?’

There was a slight toss of the head.

‘Well, that’s just Auntie—her fancy Italian way of saying Nellie.’ The
accent and the laugh were authentic cockney. ‘It riles me a bit, but
what’s the use?’

‘Your name is really Nellie?’

‘That’s right. My old Gran that I don’t remember, she came over with
Auntie about the year one, and she married an Irishman, and my Mum who
was their daughter, she married a Scotchman called Brown, and they lived
in Bermondsey, so how much of the Italiano have I got? Proper Londoner,
that’s what I am—born there and brought up there and don’t want to be
anything different! It’s no good saying that sort of thing to
Auntie—she don’t understand. Only how she can go on year in, year out
in a nasty dark country hole like this’—she gave an expressive
shrug—‘well, it passes me!’

Candida laughed.

‘You don’t like the country?’

‘Like it!’ The London voice was shrill. ‘It gives me the pip! And I
wouldn’t be here, only Auntie made such a point of it, and the doctor at
the eye hospital he said if I didn’t knock off a bit and rest my eyes
I’d be sorry I hadn’t done what he said. I’m an embroideress—but the
work’s too fine, I’ll have to find something else. As a matter of fact
I’m getting married, so when Auntie made a point of it and the money was
good, I thought, oh, well, I can stick it out if I’ve got to—for a bit
anyway. Is there anything else I can do, Miss Sayle?’

‘Oh, no. I’m going to love the hot water-bottle.’

The girl flashed her a smile as she went out. Candida had a feeling that
it wouldn’t be very long before she heard all about the boy friend and
the lovely suite. The bed was comfortable and the hot water-bottle was
really hot. But before she had time to luxuriate in these thoughts they
were blotted out by the rising tides of sleep. She went down under
dreamless waters and lost herself.

A long time afterwards, when the turn of the night was past and a thin
white mist lay ankle-deep on the low-lying fields beyond the garden, the
tides began to go down again. They thinned away and left her in the
place where dreams can come and go. She was asleep, but she was not
unconscious any more. The dreams came and went. In the first one she had
gone back nearly six years. A knob of rock cut into the palm of her left
hand. With the nails of her right hand she dug into a shallow crack and
clung there. Her feet tiptoed on a narrow ledge. At any moment she was
going to fall to the bare black rocks below. The dream was not a new
one. During the years it had come and gone again—when she was
tired—when she was troubled—when something reminded her. But it had
come less and less. In her last year at school it had not come at all.
Then, with Barbara’s illness, it had started again. Sometimes it ended
with the fall, sometimes it changed in a flash and she would be up on
the ledge above, with Stephen saying, ‘You’re all right now.’ When she
fell, she always woke before she got as far as the rocks. Tonight she
did not fall, nor did she reach the ledge. She heard Stephen calling
from the sea, and she turned her head. She couldn’t have done it
really—not without losing her hold, but in the dream it was all quite
easy. She looked round and saw him coming to her across black water with
wings on his feet, like Perseus in the story of Andromeda. She saw the
wings quite plainly—they were bright and fluttering. He had light
wind-swept hair, and he had on old grey flannel slacks and an
open-necked shirt and a tweed jacket. And then all of a sudden he was
gone, and so was the sea and the cliff. There was a wall with a window
in it, and an open book on the windowsill. She had just written her name
in the book, Candida Sayle, and someone said, ‘That is a very unusual
name.’ There were two old ladies standing one on either side of her and
looking at the book. One of them said, ‘It’s a very nice walk along the
beach,’ and the other one nodded. One of them said, ‘It is not high tide
until eleven.’ And she woke up.

The room was dark. She had pulled back the curtains, and she could just
see the shape of the window. She sat up straight in bed with her heart
beating fast. Her hands pressed down on the mattress on either side of
her. There was a trickle of sweat in the hollow of her back, a cold
running drop. Her heart beat because she was afraid, and she was afraid
because in the moment of waking she remembered three things and they all
rushed together. There was the dream from which she had just waked up.
There was the dream which had come and gone in the moment when sleep had
reached out and touched her under the lights in the white and gold
drawing-room. And there was the thing that wasn’t a dream—the thing
that had happened more than five years ago, when two old ladies had
stood in the hall at Sea View and told her what a nice walk there was
along the beach, and one of them had said, ‘It won’t be high tide until
eleven.’

These three things rushed together in her mind and became one thing. It
wasn’t a dream any longer, it was a fact. It was the Miss Benevents who
had looked over her shoulder and read her name in the hotel register. It
was her great-aunt Olivia who had told her about the beach and the tide,
and it was her great-aunt Cara who had nodded assent.

Sitting up in bed in the dark room, she said, ‘Nonsense!’ There was a
shaded light beside the bed. She switched it on. She had her mother’s
watch, and it lay on the table under the lamp. The time was half-past
five, the sort of time you did have thoughts like that. She left the
light on and lay down shivering, with the clothes snuggled up about her
neck. She began to get warmer at once. The bed was soft and the light
friendly. The dreams receded. The two old ladies at Sea View were just
any old ladies who had muddled up the times of the tides. The hall had
been dark—she hadn’t really seen them at all clearly. And she hadn’t
ever seen them again, because when she and Stephen had got off the cliff
and back to Sea View there was no more than time for her to snatch some
breakfast and catch a train home. Monica had telephoned to say her
mother was really ill and would have to go into a nursing home. She
herself would stay with an aunt in London. She was dreadfully sorry.
Mummy would send a cheque for the bill, and there was nothing for it but
for Candida to go home. So Candida went. And she didn’t see the old
ladies again. And she didn’t see Stephen Eversley.

She lay in the shaded light of the lamp and thought about all these
things. It was quite easy to see how she had got the old ladies mixed up
with the great-aunts. Two old ladies in black in the hall at Sea
View—two old ladies in black in the white drawing-room at Underhill.
One taking the lead and the other following. Wasn’t that the sort of
thing that would be bound to happen when sisters lived together all
their lives? The idea that the old ladies at Sea View had been her
Benevent great-aunts was just one of the fantastic things that happen in
a dream, like Stephen in grey flannel slacks with wings on his feet. She
slid into sleep again, and only woke when Nellie came in with the early
morning tea.




                              Chapter Five


They breakfasted in the dining-room. Candida wouldn’t have believed it
possible, but it was even gloomier by daylight. The Miss Benevents
appeared to take a certain pride in the fact.

‘It is one of the original rooms, and as you see, it looks out towards
the hill.’ Miss Olivia might have been introducing a View.

It would have been difficult to avoid seeing the hill, since there was
no more than twenty feet between it and the two narrow windows. The
intervening space was paved in stone. It formed a small square
court-yard with figures in each corner and a rather larger one in the
middle. The one in the middle represented a naked lady brooding over an
urn. All the figures, as well as the paving-stones, had acquired a film
of damp green slime.

‘This is the oldest part of the house,’ said Miss Olivia, pouring out
coffee. ‘Several of the other rooms have been added to, but this is just
as it was built. Perhaps you will help yourself to milk and sugar. We
have been employing a young architect to advise us about the
preservation of all this part of the house. We have been a good deal
disturbed by the appearance of one or two cracks.’

‘Very alarming,’ said Miss Cara.

Miss Olivia went on as if she had not spoken.

‘We fear that they must be attributed to the bombs which fell in the
neighbourhood from time to time during the war.’

‘These things do not always show themselves at once.’

‘So we thought it wise to have expert advice. Mr. Eversley is very well
known in the neighbourhood.’

‘Lord Retborough employs him at the Castle.’

‘We had hoped for his advice, and he came for a preliminary survey, but
the actual work will be supervised by his nephew, who, he assures us, is
fully competent.’

‘Mr. Stephen Eversley,’ said Miss Cara.

Candida heard herself saying, ‘I think I met him once when I was at
school.’ She had no idea why she should have put it like that. The words
said themselves, and it did not occur to her that they might be
misleading, until she found Miss Olivia enquiring whether the
headmistress had been satisfied with his work. She did her best to clear
the matter up.

‘Oh, I didn’t mean that he came down to the school. I just met him once
in the holidays.’

Miss Olivia looked at her rather coldly.

‘He probably will not remember you.’

It was at this point that Candida should have narrated her adventure on
the cliff, and she simply couldn’t do it. Last night’s dream got up and
wouldn’t let her. The Miss Benevents looked at her, and she said nothing
at all. She just couldn’t think of anything to say.

And then the door opened and Derek came in, wreathed in morning smiles.

‘I’m late again! I don’t suppose it’s any good my saying I’m sorry.’ He
kissed Miss Olivia. ‘I make good resolutions every night and break them
every morning.’ He kissed Miss Cara. ‘You shouldn’t have such
comfortable beds—I just can’t wake up.’

As a topic Stephen Eversley was superseded.

They got off to Retley by ten o’clock, with Derek at the wheel of a
good-looking Humber.

‘Pre-war, but she hasn’t done a big mileage and she has always been very
carefully looked after. This is her original paint, but she’s just had
an overhaul and she goes like a bird. You know, I could have taught you
just as well as Fox, but the old dears wouldn’t hear of your practising
on her. They let me drive because if they didn’t the car would never go
out. And they think you should have lessons from a qualified instructor,
so if you don’t mind, I’ll just hand you over to Fox and be off on my
own. I should get the jitters if I had to sit behind and watch you doing
all the things you’re bound to do to begin with. People who give driving
lessons must have nerves of iron. Mine aren’t, and I should only make
you nervous. You don’t mind, do you?’

Candida said, ‘Why should I?’ She thought there was a discrepancy
between his professed willingness to teach her himself and this
advertisement of a lack of nerve. She thought that he had other fish to
fry, and that it was none of her business. It did not surprise her when
he suggested that it might not be necessary to obtrude the fact that he
had not superintended the lesson.

‘You’ll do a lot better if you haven’t got my eyes boring into the back
of your neck. But they wouldn’t understand about that, so if you don’t
mind—’

Candida met a laughing glance and found herself laughing too. There was
that sense of escape, of having secrets from the elders, which is not
always left behind with childhood. If she couldn’t help wondering what
he was going to do with himself, she asked no questions.

‘Look here, I’ll meet you at the Primrose Café, just opposite the
garage. Half-past eleven, and whoever gets there first can order coffee
for two.’

Mr. Fox was a red-headed young man with a lot of cheerful
self-confidence. He informed Derek that he could do very well without a
passenger in the back seat—chipping in as likely as not and making the
learner nervous.

‘And now, Miss Sayle, if you’ll just pay close attention, we’ll start
with the dashboard.’

Candida was interested and quick. She got all the gadgets sorted out in
a remarkably short time, after which he made her move over and took the
wheel until they were out of Retley on an empty road with wide grass
verges.

She hadn’t known that it would be so thrilling to feel the wheel under
her hands. Power and speed—everything running smoothly—control—it was
like having a new sense. It was like having wings. She turned with
sparkling eyes, her lips parted to say so, and only Mr. Fox’s large
freckled hand on the wheel kept the car on the road. He said in a tone
of reproof,

‘Now don’t you go looking round! You keep your eye on the road!’

The lesson went very well. They were out for an hour, and she passed six
cars, two lorries, and the Ledbury bus. Mr. Fox dismissed her with words
of approbation, and she went across to the Primrose Café feeling a good
deal pleased with herself.

The café was twentieth-century Olde Englishe with beams that only just
cleared your head and bottle-glass in the windows. This made the
interior so dark that it was more than easy to fall down the two steps
which separated the front of the premises from the back. Candida, having
had a narrow escape, stood still and looked about her to see if there
were any more traps. There were a lot of little tables with tops made of
yellow tiles, thus saving table-cloths. There was pale yellow china, and
a waitress in yellow linen with a mob cap. The place was very nearly
empty, but sitting alone at a table in the far corner was a tall man. He
had on a tweed jacket, and she couldn’t see his face because he was
bending forward over the table and writing in a notebook. All she could
see was the top of his head, and because she had dreamed about Stephen
Eversley last night and had heard him talked about this morning he
reminded her of Stephen. Just the thick light hair, and perhaps the
tweed coat. Her eyes were getting accustomed to the bottle-glass dusk.
The jacket was brown, and the hair was the colour of sun-dried hay, or
it would be if you allowed for the greenish tinge in the light.

She walked slowly towards the table next to the one at which he sat, and
just as she came level with him he looked up, and it was Stephen. She
thought that it was odd he should be so exactly like the dream. He was,
and it puzzled her, because after all they were more than five years
older. She stared right into his eyes and said, ‘Stephen!’ in a sort of
jerky whisper, and he stared back and said, ‘What on earth are you doing
here?’ He was looking up, and she was looking down. Her knees wobbled
and she sat down on the nearest chair. She hadn’t thought that he would
recognise her—she hadn’t really had time to think at all. Five years
was five years, and she was only fifteen when he was Perseus to her
Andromeda. She found enough breath to say,

‘But you don’t know who I am.’ And he laughed and said in an everyday
careless sort of voice, ‘But of course I do! You’re Candida—Candida
Sayle.’

She had a warm, bewildered feeling. It was nice to be recognised, but
how did he do it? She was glad of the chair, and she was glad to reach
out and hold on to the table. When five years have been suddenly
telescoped, it makes you feel giddy.

Stephen said, ‘You look as if you had seen a ghost.’

She shook her head.

‘Oh, no—not me. I knew you were somewhere about. Did you know that I
was? Because if you didn’t—’

‘I didn’t.’

‘Then I can’t see how you recognised me.’

He laughed.

‘But you haven’t changed a bit. No plait, but otherwise just about the
same. What are you doing here?’

The giddy feeling was passing off. There are people whom you have to get
to know again every time you meet them, and there are people with whom
time doesn’t make any difference—if you didn’t see them for twenty
years you could begin again just where you left off, in the middle of a
sentence if necessary.

Candida began to have this feeling about Stephen. They had only met
once, and that was nearly six years ago, but they didn’t feel like
strangers. They weren’t doing any of the things that belonged to having
met only once before.

It didn’t occur to them to shake hands or say, ‘How do you do?’ She just
sat and looked at him with the blue of her eyes dark and troubled, and
he looked back and smiled.

‘Well?’

‘I’m staying here with some great-aunts. They asked me on a visit.
Barbara is dead.’

He said, ‘I’m sorry.’

The way he said it was nice—as if he really meant it—as if he was
really sorry that she had lost Barbara and was all alone. It took away
some of the aloneness. She said,

‘You did go into your uncle’s office? You told me you were going to.’

‘Yes—that’s why I’m here. I’m doing a job on an old house that got
shaken up by the bombing in the war. It belongs to two Miss Benevents.’

Candida said, ‘Yes.’

‘Why—do you know them?’

‘I’m staying with them.’

‘They’re not your aunts?’

‘My great-aunts. My grandmother was their sister. Her name was Candida
Benevent, and their father cut her off and cast her out because she
married my grandfather who was the son of a yeoman farmer—“although he
had taken orders”.’ She spoke in a quoting voice, and he laughed.

‘You mean he was a parson?’

She nodded mournfully.

‘But it didn’t make up for his being a farmer’s son.’

‘Is that what the old ladies say?’

He remembered liking the way she smiled. Her lip curled up a little more
on one side than on the other, and there was just a glimpse of those
very white teeth. She said,

‘Oh, yes. So there wasn’t any communication, but he took means to inform
himself when anyone was born or died. And the aunts went on doing it, so
they knew when my grandmother died, and my father and mother, and
Barbara. And when there was only me, they asked me to come and stay, and
I did.’

Stephen was frowning.

‘I was at Underhill two days ago. How long have you been there?’

‘I came yesterday.’

‘And how long are you going to stay?’

‘I don’t know—it was a bit vague. They’re giving me driving lessons.
It’s very kind of them.’

He said abruptly, ‘Who is teaching you? Not Derek Burdon?’

‘No, it’s Mr. Fox from the garage over the way. He’s very good.’

‘Like it?’

Her smile flashed out.

‘Oh, yes!’

It was at this moment that Derek made his belated appearance. He said he
had had a puncture, hoped she had not been waiting long, and, rather as
an afterthought, became aware of Stephen Eversley.

‘Oh, hullo! Do you know each other?’

Stephen said, ‘Oh, yes,’ and Candida put in, ‘Of course we do. I said so
at breakfast.’

‘You said you’d seen him once at school.’

‘Not at school. I said I was still at school when I met him. I was
fifteen and a half.’

Derek laughed.

‘And now we’ve got that settled, what will you have—tea or coffee? I’ll
go and have a wash while they’re bringing it. I got filthy changing a
wheel.’

When he had gone, Stephen said,

‘Did he drive you in?’

‘Yes.’

‘But he didn’t go out with you and Fox?’

‘No.’

‘Why?’

She laughed.

‘He said it would make me nervous. But I think—’

‘Well?’

‘I don’t think I’ll say it.’

‘You mean you don’t get on?’

‘Oh, no, we get on very well.’

‘Then what?’

‘Oh, just that I think he likes to get off on his own, and he’s quite
good at doing it.’

Stephen said, ‘Oh, well—’ And then, ‘What does he actually do?’

‘Family history, I think. We are supposed to be going to work on it
together.’

The quick frown came again.

‘How long did you say you were going to stay?’

‘I didn’t say. I don’t know.’

‘How do you mean you don’t know?’

‘Well, I shall have to get a job. The bother is I’m not trained for
anything.’

He said abruptly, ‘No money?’

‘Not very much.’

He looked as if he was going to speak, but checked himself.

Derek appeared in the offing.

Stephen said quickly, ‘Lunch with me tomorrow.’

‘I don’t know—’

He said with energy, ‘You mean you’ve got to ask leave?’

‘Well, yes—in a way.’

‘Then begin the way you’re going to go on. If you start by knuckling
down you won’t be able to call your soul your own—nobody who works for
them can. Lunch tomorrow—twelve-thirty here. The food isn’t at all bad.
Make your driving lesson a bit later, so that it fits in.’

The last words were spoken as Derek came up. He caught them, because
when Candida hesitated he laughed and said,

‘Why not if you want to? We can fix it up with Fox all right. Join us
and have some coffee, won’t you, Eversley?’

But Stephen got up.

‘No thanks—I was just putting in time—I’ve got an appointment.
Twelve-thirty tomorrow, Candida.’

She watched him go. His head just cleared the central beam. Derek had
stooped though he had a few inches to spare. Stephen’s careless stride
took him under it without any regard. Derek said, ‘That’s a near shave,’
and dropped into a chair as the waitress came in with the coffee.

It was when they were driving home that he asked,

‘He wants you to lunch with him tomorrow?’

‘Yes.’

‘Well, I don’t know that I’d mention it at Underhill.’

She turned in surprise.

‘But I must.’

She got a charming smile and a shake of the head.

‘Much better not. They don’t like it. Architects don’t cut any ice
socially.’

‘What nonsense!’

He shrugged.

‘Victorian outlook—influence of poor Papa—it’s never worn off. And
what’s the use of upsetting them? I told Fox you’d be out for your
lesson at a quarter past eleven, and all we need say is that we’re
lunching in town. They’ll be quite pleased about that.’

Candida had a feeling of distaste.

‘No, I couldn’t do that.’

He laughed.

‘Just as you like! But you know one can’t really carry on according to
Papa, and what the eye doesn’t see the heart doesn’t grieve over.’

Her colour rose. She shook her head vehemently.

‘I’m not going to tell lies about anything at all! Why shouldn’t I have
lunch with Stephen?’

He shrugged again.

‘Oh, have it your own way. But don’t blame me if there’s a blight.’

She wondered what his own plans would be, and she thought he was running
a risk. If the Miss Benevents were to find out—The thought broke off.
They wouldn’t like to feel that he had kept them in the dark. It looked
as if there might be a girl whom they wouldn’t approve of. His affair,
but he needn’t feel that he was going to drag her into it.

She went into the house as he was putting the car away, and found Miss
Olivia at her writing-table in a dark little den lined with bookshelves.
As she opened the door she heard Miss Cara say in a plaintive voice,
‘She is really quite pretty, and there is no reason why he shouldn’t
take to her. It would be much better that way.’

Whatever Miss Olivia’s reply would have been, it was arrested by
Candida’s entrance. Instead, she enquired about the driving lesson, and
was pleased to hear that it had gone well.

It was Miss Cara, in a chair by the window with a newspaper in her lap,
who appeared to be embarrassed. She produced an embroidered
handkerchief, rubbed her nose with it, and sniffed. Candida had not
allowed herself time to wonder about what she had overheard. She went
directly from the driving lesson to the programme for next day.

‘It was lovely. I enjoyed every minute of it. It is so kind of you. And
bye the bye, I ran into Stephen Eversley. He asked me to lunch with him
tomorrow. I hope you won’t mind.’

There was the sort of silence which means that you have put your foot in
it. Miss Cara sniffed and chafed her nose. Miss Olivia laid down her
pen. When the pause had had time to sink in she said in a restrained
manner,

‘It is not exactly a question of minding.’

‘Oh—’

‘You are naturally inexperienced. It is, of course, hardly to be
expected that you should be otherwise, but Mr. Eversley should have
known better than to presume on his professional position.’

Candida’s colour rose brightly.

‘Aunt Olivia—’

Miss Olivia’s manner became very grand indeed.

‘We will say no more about it. The mistake was an excusable one on your
part. We have his telephone number. You can ring him up and say that we
have made other arrangements for you.’

Candida had the feeling that life at Underhill would be impossible if
she did not stand up to Miss Olivia. She said,

‘No—I don’t think I could do that.’

There was another pause. The handkerchief was crushed in Miss Cara’s
hand. But after a moment Miss Olivia gave a small wintry smile and said,

‘Well, since the engagement was made, you must please yourself.’




                              Chapter Six


The Retley train jogged on without any uncomfortable effect of hurry.
Miss Silver, in a corner seat with her back to the engine, was really
finding it very restful. Third-class carriages were sometimes badly
crowded, but her only companion was a quiet elderly gentleman who was
immersed in a book. Even if she had been nervous, his aspect would have
been reassuring, to say nothing of the fact that it was a corridor
train. She felt able to relax and watch the soothing if rather
monotonous countryside go sliding by in a procession of fields and
hedgerows, country paths and lanes, a farmstead here and a cluster of
cottages there, with an occasional pond or stream to brighten it.

After about half an hour she opened a capacious knitting-bag which lay
on the seat beside her and took out four steel needles from which
depended about six inches of grey stocking. Her niece Ethel Burkett’s
three boys, now all of school age, were continual in their requirements,
and Ethel had never yet been obliged to buy them a single pair of
stockings or of socks. Removing her gloves, she settled herself and
began to knit easily and rapidly, her hands held low in the continental
fashion.

On the opposite seat Mr. Puncheon was observing her over the top of his
book. He had been doing this for some time, but he hoped that she had
not noticed it. It would be really dreadful if she were to imagine that
he had any intention of annoying her. It was perhaps foolish of him to
have followed her into this carriage, but when he had recognised her at
the terminus it really did seem as if it was an Opportunity. He had
followed her, and he had said to himself that if nobody else got into
the compartment he would take it as a Sign. But now that they were alone
together a natural diffidence caused him to hesitate. If she were to
consider that he was taking a liberty—a lady travelling alone—

He looked at her over the top of his book, and was reminded of a
great-aunt of his own now many years deceased. She would, of course,
have been a great deal older than Miss Silver if she were still alive,
but he was very strongly reminded. There was the black felt hat trimmed
with loops of purple ribbon, and there was the small bunch of purple
flowers of some species not easily identified. Mr. Puncheon was an
enthusiastic gardener, and even in the preoccupation of his mind he
refused to accept them as violets. He could dimly remember Aunt Lizzie
with a similar bunch upon her bonnet. The hat ought not to have reminded
him of the bonnet, but it did. Then there was the black cloth coat, the
kind of garment which looks as if it had never been new, and as if it
would never wear out. And the tippet of yellowish fur grown pale with
age. He could not remember that Aunt Lizzie had had a tippet, but all
the same he was very strongly reminded.

The precious moments were slipping away. The Opportunity was escaping
him. He looked out of the window and sought for a Sign. If there was a
haystack before he could count up to sixty, he would speak. There was no
haystack. If there was a house? There was no house. If there was a black
and white cow? There were three black and white cows in a field. He
turned his head with a jerk and said,

‘I beg your pardon, madam—’

Miss Silver gazed at him in a mildly enquiring manner.

Mr. Puncheon, having taken the plunge, struck out for the shore.

‘If you will forgive me for addressing you. You will not know me, but I
recognised you immediately.’

Miss Silver continued to knit and to maintain the enquiring gaze.

‘Yes?’

‘You are Miss Maud Silver, are you not? I used to see you when you were
staying with Mrs. Voycey at Melling at the time of the Melling murder. I
had a bookshop in Lenton, and you were pointed out to me. It was said
that it was due to you that the matter was cleared up. My name is
Puncheon—Theodore Puncheon.’

Miss Silver observed him. He was of medium size and he stooped a little.
He had thick grey hair, and he wore old-fashioned pince-nez with steel
rims. Behind them were a pair of good brown eyes with an anxious
expression. She said,

‘Yes, Mr. Puncheon?’

He took off the glasses and rubbed them with a silk handkerchief.

‘If you will excuse me for addressing you—when I saw you like that on
the platform and you got into the Retley train, it did seem like an
Opportunity. So I got into the same compartment, and when no one else
got in—I hope you will not think me superstitious, but I felt that it
must be _meant_.’

Miss Silver’s slight cough was of the kind intended to recall a speaker
to the point.

‘In what way, Mr. Puncheon?’

He laid down his book upon the seat.

‘Well, you see, I have a Problem, and speaking as a professional man
myself, and without wishing in any way to intrude, I did understand that
you were consulted professionally in the affair of the Melling
Murder—you will correct me if I am wrong.’

‘No, Mr. Puncheon, you are not wrong.’

There was a discernible sigh of relief.

‘Then will you kindly allow me to consult you professionally?’

Miss Silver pulled on the ball of wool concealed in her knitting-bag.

‘I am going down to Retley to stay with a connection. She is not very
robust, and she has a good deal of family business on her hands. I do
not know to what extent my time may be taken up.’

Mr. Puncheon adjusted his glasses, and left them crooked.

‘I feel that it would be of great help to me if you would allow me to
talk to you about my Problem. I do not know if there are any steps that
could be taken, but I feel that it is laid upon me to find out if there
is anything that can be done. So the Opportunity having occurred—’ He
paused and looked at her in a hopeful manner.

Miss Silver’s needles clicked.

‘Perhaps if you would tell me what your problem is—’

Mr. Puncheon allowed himself to relax. He leaned forward, his stoop a
little more pronounced.

‘I told you that I had a bookshop in Lenton, but I have lately moved to
Retley. My wife died about a year ago—she had been a sad invalid—and
at about the same time my sister was left a widow. Her husband had a
bookshop in Retley, and she suggested that I should sell my business and
join her. As she said, why should we both be lonely when we might be
together?’

‘A very sensible remark.’

‘My sister is a very sensible woman. To cut a long story short, I did
sell my business and I joined her. She is a very good cook, and we could
be very comfortable together were it not for the Problem. You see, my
late wife had a son.’

‘You mean that he was your stepson?’

‘Exactly—her son by her previous marriage with a Mr. Thompson, a
solicitor’s clerk.’

‘And this son is the problem?’

Mr. Puncheon sighed.

‘You might put it that way. His father died, and his mother spoiled him.
She had a soft heart, and he was a very good-looking boy. At the time of
her marriage to me he was fifteen and it was too late to control him. He
was a bright boy at school, and as he grew older he proved very
attractive to young women. I don’t blame him entirely, because they ran
after him, but it ended in a scandal and he left Lenton. He was about
two-and-twenty at the time. He didn’t write, and my wife took it very
much to heart. And then, after some months, we had news of him. He had
got a job as a secretary to two old ladies near Retley. It was through
my sister that we heard about it. These Miss Benevents came into the
shop with him, and she said they were in a fair way to spoiling him as
much as his mother did. It was Alan this and Alan that, until she said
it would have done her good to box his ears. Mind you, he hadn’t seen
her since he was a child, and he didn’t connect her with us, or they
wouldn’t have got him into the shop. But she knew him all right. We had
sent her snapshots from time to time—to say nothing of the way they
were calling him by his name. It was, “Alan dear!” and “Dearest boy!”
and, “Mr. Thompson would like to see what you’ve got in reprints of
so-and-so’s novels!” My sister said she didn’t know how she bore it, but
she thought it best not to say anything. Well, his mother wrote off at
once, and Alan wrote back as cool as you please. He had found himself a
good job and he was in a fair way to doing very well for himself, and he
didn’t want his relations coming round and interfering. The old ladies
had high ideas, and it wouldn’t do him any good to have it known that he
was connected with trade.’

Miss Silver used her strongest expression of disapproval. She said,

‘Dear me!’

‘Well,’ said Mr. Puncheon, ‘I don’t mind saying that I was angry, and my
poor wife took a turn for the worse. Then about six months later my
sister wrote and said it was the talk of the town that Alan had helped
himself to things that didn’t belong to him and run off, and not a word
as to where he had gone. I went down to Retley, and I went to see the
Miss Benevents. They’ve got an old house called Underhill about three
miles out. Yes, they said, Alan had run off. He had taken money and a
diamond brooch. They had trusted him as if he were one of the family,
and he had deceived them. They wouldn’t prosecute him, because they were
too upset. They were going off abroad to try and get over it, and they
hoped never to see or hear of him again. Well, I felt rather the same
way myself. I went home and told my wife, and I think it killed her—not
just at once, you know, but that’s what it amounted to.’

Miss Silver looked at him kindly.

‘It is a very sad story, Mr. Puncheon, but not I fear an uncommon one.
The loving mother who spoils her child is preparing an unhappy future
for both of them.’

Mr. Puncheon said, ‘Yes.’ And then, ‘But that is not all. If it had
been, there would be no Problem to trouble you with. It has arisen quite
lately, since I have come to Retley.’

‘Something has happened?’

Mr. Puncheon adjusted his glasses.

‘I suppose you might put it that way. My sister is a good Chapel member.
A little while ago it came to her knowledge that a Mrs. Harbord who
attends the same Chapel was lying ill and in a bad way and asking to see
her. So Ellen went. There was a daughter-in-law looking after her, and
what you would call sufficient care, but the woman had something on her
mind. When she was alone with my sister she began to cry and to say that
she had got it on her conscience to have let a young man’s character be
taken away. Ellen said what did she mean, and she said wasn’t it true
that she was in a way connected with Alan Thompson? Ellen wasn’t best
pleased, and she said, “My brother was married to his mother, if that is
what you call being connected.” Then Mrs. Harbord said was it true that
I was coming to live with her and taking over the business, and she
began to cry and said she didn’t know he had relations in Retley. Ellen
has a quick tongue, and I suppose she came out with something about not
having any reason to be proud of the connection, and Mrs. Harbord
catches her by the wrist and says, “You think he stole those things and
ran away, but he didn’t!” ’

‘How did Mrs. Harbord come to know anything about it?’ said Miss Silver.

Mr. Puncheon gazed at her mildly.

‘Didn’t I tell you that? Of course I should have done. How very stupid
of me. You see, Mrs. Harbord obliged the Miss Benevents—went up every
day on her bicycle and did housework and cleaning for them until she got
ill—so of course she knew Alan quite well. And when she said about his
stealing and running away I’m afraid my sister took her up pretty
sharply, and then she couldn’t get any more out of her. Mrs. Harbord
just lay there and cried and said he never did it. And the
daughter-in-law came in and said she couldn’t have her upset, and would
Ellen please go, and she went. Well, she didn’t tell me about it until
getting on for a month ago, and I don’t seem to get it off my mind.
Ellen says it means no more than that he’d made the same kind of fool of
Mrs. Harbord as he had of his mother and of any other woman that was
fool enough to let him, and it was no good my thinking she was one of
them, because she wasn’t. I told you she had a sharp tongue.’

Miss Silver said quietly,

‘In what way was it on your mind, Mr. Puncheon?’

‘In the way of thinking that we may have done Alan an injustice—taking
what those old ladies said without any question. Afraid—that’s what we
were, and we swallowed it all down and sheered off in case of anything
worse coming to light. And that isn’t justice—now is it? A man may be a
thief and he may be a liar, but it ought to be proved against him before
you believe it and go cutting him off. Well, we didn’t ask to have it
proved to us—we believed it right away. Even his mother believed it,
and it killed her. Perhaps if I had gone into it more, she wouldn’t have
believed it and she wouldn’t have died. And it began to come to me that
I ought to try and do something to make amends. If Alan didn’t steal and
run away, it wasn’t right for people to go on thinking that he did. I
began to feel I’d got a duty to get back his good name for him. You see,
he was all the world to his mother, and even if she wouldn’t know about
it I came to feel that it was something I could do for her.’ Mr.
Puncheon let his glasses fall and looked at Miss Silver with sad,
defenceless eyes. ‘You see,’ he said, ‘I was very fond of my wife.’

Miss Silver returned the look with kindness.

‘When did all this happen, Mr. Puncheon?’

He seemed a little surprised, as if it was incredible that there should
be anyone who did not know what had made so great a difference to
himself.

‘Do you mean about Alan? It was three years ago in February.’

‘And when did Mrs. Harbord speak to your sister?’

He put on his glasses again.

‘It would have been about three months ago, because it was before I took
over the business, and I made the move to Retley over the Christmas
holidays, so it would have been sometime late in December.’

‘And after your sister had told you what Mrs. Harbord had to say, did
you try to see her?’

‘Oh, yes, I did, but the daughter-in-law wouldn’t let me in. She said my
sister had made quite enough of an upset without having any more of the
family coming around. So what could I do?’

‘Then you do not really know whether Mrs. Harbord had any grounds for
what she said?’

He shook his head.

‘Only what I have told you. Ellen said she just kept saying over and
over that he never went away from Underhill.’

Miss Silver stopped knitting for a moment.

‘You did not tell me that.’

‘Oh, didn’t I? That is what she kept on saying.’

‘Mr. Puncheon, if that was true, have you thought what it would mean?’

He looked startled.

‘How could it be true? Why should the Miss Benevents say he was not
there if he was?’

She said gravely,

‘I think Mrs. Harbord ought to be asked to answer that question.’




                             Chapter Seven


Candida’s second lesson went extremely well. Stephen, waiting in the
Primrose Café, saw her come in with a glowing colour and starry eyes.
She made a brightness in the shaded place. He had a rush of feeling
which surprised him. It was as if a light had sprung up to meet her, and
when she came to him and they looked at each other the brightness was
round them both. He said, ‘Did you have any difficulty in getting away?’
and she said, ‘Nothing to speak of,’ and then they both laughed.

When they were seated he went on, with the remains of the laugh in his
voice.

‘Your aunts are a bit formidable, you know—at least Miss Olivia is. I
had an idea they wouldn’t think much of my asking you out to lunch.’

Candida’s already bright colour rose. She said,

‘Oh, well—’ And then, as much to change the subject as anything,
‘Stephen, such a funny thing—do you know, Aunt Olivia isn’t the elder.
Anyone would think so, wouldn’t they?’

‘You don’t mean to say it’s Miss Cara!’

She nodded.

‘Yes, I do. And I’ll tell you how I found out. Derek and I were turning
over a lot of old music yesterday evening. It was in the drawer of the
music-stand—old songs, you know. And right in the middle of them there
was a photograph of three little girls in white party frocks and their
hair tied back with bows. I could see that two of them were the
great-aunts—because of the dark hair and the dark eyes, and their
features haven’t changed a lot. And I guessed that the third one must be
my grandmother Candida, so of course I was very much interested, and I
turned the photograph over to see if there was anything written on the
back.’

‘And there was?’

She nodded.

‘Their names and their ages behind each of them. And this is how they
went. Caroline aged seven and a half—Candida aged six—Olivia aged
five. So you see, Olivia is the youngest. You’d never think it, would
you?’

‘No, you wouldn’t. I expect she got spoilt, and it made her bossy.’

‘I don’t think anything _makes_ you bossy—you just are. And there’s
only two and a half years between the three of them. By the time they
were grown up that would hardly make any difference at all, and now when
they are old you can wash it right out.’

They went on talking about a lot of different things. Stephen’s work—

‘Nothing very exciting to be done, with all these restrictions on
materials. It’s not very inspiring to be having to think how you can get
five pounds off the cost, or where you can cut out half a dozen bricks
or a foot or two of timber. And when you look at some of these old
houses and see how lavish they were, it fairly makes your mouth water.
Underhill is an interesting bit of patchwork. Those back rooms have
practically never been touched. Actually, it is time they were. I’ve got
a horrid suspicion there’s some dry rot knocking about, to say nothing
of death-watch beetle in some of those old beams. By the way, they are
very cagey about the cellars. Miss Olivia didn’t consider it would be
necessary for me to inspect them, and when I said I couldn’t report on
the foundations unless I did, she went all _grande dame_ and nearly
froze me to death. I stuck to it, and she took me down herself, attended
by Joseph with a candelabrum. No electric light, though why they didn’t
have it put in down there whilst they were about it I don’t know, and I
had a feeling that I had better not ask. Anyhow, all I got was a cursory
glance by candle-light and the conviction that I’d only been allowed to
see what Miss Olivia chose. Do you suppose there’s a secret passage, and
that they are afraid of my stumbling on the Benevent Treasure?’

Candida looked up with a startled widening of her dark blue eyes.

‘The Benevent Treasure?’

‘Haven’t you heard about it? Everyone in Retley has. There was an
ancestor who ran away from Italy with the family plate and jewels in the
seventeenth century. He or his son built the house, and the Treasure is
supposed to be hidden in it somewhere. My informant is an old cousin of
mine who lives here—the sort of old pet who knows all the stories about
everyone in the county and has them patched together and embroidered on
to a quite incredible extent. There isn’t a dull moment, but you can’t
bring yourself to believe that any of it is really true. Which is just
as well, because most of the stories are pretty scandalous. Amazing,
isn’t it, how old ladies who have never done anything wrong in their
lives can believe and repeat the most awful things about their
neighbours.’

‘Does your cousin know the great-aunts?’

‘She knows everyone. Her father was a Canon at the Cathedral, and his
father was a Bishop. It’s a sort of aristocracy of the Church, and the
Miss Benevents condescended to a visiting acquaintance. My cousin’s name
is Louisa Arnold. At the moment she is entertaining a female sleuth who
is a relation on the other side of the family. I am bidden to sup with
them tonight. I met her in the street, and she asked me at point-blank
range. Bye the bye, she wants to know whether the Miss Benevents have
ever had any news of Alan Thompson. He was their secretary before Derek
took it on.’

Candida said, ‘Oh!’ And then, ‘Yes, I know! He ran away with some money
and a diamond brooch, and nobody is supposed to mention him.’

‘But they mentioned him to you?’

‘No, it was Anna. She let it out, and then she said I mustn’t ever speak
about it, because they had been dreadfully upset.’

‘Well, Louisa wanted to know if they’d had any news of him, because her
sleuth, whose name is Maud Silver, had met an old boy in the train who
said he was Alan Thompson’s step-father and he was a good deal worried
about him.’ He broke off to laugh. ‘It sounds a bit like “The stick
began to beat the dog, the dog began to bite the pig, the little pig
jumped over the stile, and so the old woman got home that night,”
doesn’t it?’

Candida laughed too.

‘Can you say it all through? I used to be able to.’

‘I don’t know—that bit just came into my head. It works up to a butcher
killing an ox and water quenching fire, as far as I remember. Anyhow, to
get back to Alan Thompson’s step-father, there’s a good deal of
hush-hush about it all, but he wants to know whether anyone has ever
heard anything since what may be called the official disappearance.’

‘I shouldn’t think so from what Anna said.’

‘Well, if you get an opportunity you might ask her. It must be tolerably
unpleasant to have a relation disappear into the blue with a suspicion
of theft tacked on to him.’

Stephen duly supped with Louisa Arnold, and was introduced to ‘My
cousin, Miss Maud Silver’. It turned out to be a very distant connection
indeed, and he had to listen while Miss Arnold traced it out through her
mother’s step-brother’s marriage to a Miss Emily Silver who was first
cousin once removed to Miss Maud Silver’s father. As all this
information was embellished and diversified by a considerable fund of
anecdotage, it took the most of the way through supper. There was an
alarming story of the ghost seen by an uncle of the step-brother in
question, an apparition so horrifying that he was never able to describe
it, and its exact nature had therefore to be left to the imagination of
the family. There was the romantic story of the step-sister who met and
married a shy and tongue-tied young man and discovered on her return
from the honeymoon that he was the heir to a baronetcy and a fortune.
There were other beguiling tales.

Miss Silver, contenting herself with an occasional sensible remark,
enjoyed the excellent food provided by Louisa Arnold’s cook, an old
retainer inherited from the Canon, well up in years but still able to
invest the post-war ration with the glamour of the now almost mythical
years before the war.

It was not until after supper, when they had moved to a drawing-room
cluttered with furniture and gazed upon by generations of family
portraits, that Stephen found himself invited to a place on the sofa
beside Miss Silver. She was wearing the dark blue crêpe-de-chine bought
at the insistence of her niece Ethel during a visit to Cliffton-on-Sea.
The price had shocked her, but, as Ethel had insisted, both the material
and the cut were of a very superior nature, and she had never found
herself able to regret the purchase. She had filled in the ‘V’ at the
neck with a net front and wore to fasten it a brooch in fine mosaic
which depicted an oriental building against a background of bright
sky-blue. A work-bag lay between them, and she was engaged with four
steel needles and a boy’s grey woollen stocking. It did not appear to be
necessary for her to watch her work, for when Stephen addressed her she
looked at him in a very direct manner. They were for the moment alone,
Miss Arnold having disclaimed all offers of assistance and retired to
make the coffee.

Stephen said, ‘I hear that you are anxious for news of Alan Thompson,
but I am afraid that I have none to give you.’

Miss Silver gave the slight cough which indicated that she had a
correction to make.

‘It is his step-father who is anxious for news of him. He thought it
possible that the Miss Benevents might have heard something.’

‘If they have they don’t speak of it.’

Miss Silver pulled on a ball of grey wool.

‘There was a song which was very old-fashioned even when I was a girl.
It began:

                    ‘ “Oh, no, we never mention her,
                    Her name is never heard.
                    Our lips are now forbid to speak
                    That once familiar word.”

‘It would seem to describe the situation?’

He nodded.

‘I have been lunching today with a niece who is staying with them, and
she says he really isn’t supposed to be mentioned. The old maid told her
he had run off with money and a diamond brooch, and she mustn’t speak of
him because the Miss Benevents had been so dreadfully upset about it.’

Miss Silver was silent for a moment, after which she asked no more
questions about Alan Thompson, but to his subsequent surprise he somehow
found himself talking to her about Candida. He did not realise the fact
that he had arrived at the point where it was not only extremely easy to
talk about her, but quite difficult to avoid doing so. To this frame of
mind there was added an as yet undefined uneasiness on her account. The
Miss Benevents depressed him, Underhill depressed him. To think of
Candida in association with them produced a feeling of repulsion. Old
thoughts, old images rose from the deep places of his mind. They did not
quite break surface, but they were there—something about children of
light and hidden works of darkness—all very vague, coming up out of the
depths and going down into them again.

Miss Silver said, ‘You do not really like her being there, do you?’ and
he had no more than time to say, ‘No, I don’t!’ when the door opened and
Louisa Arnold came in, pushing an elegant tea-wagon. Stephen sprang up.
Louisa was voluble on the subject of how long the kettle had taken to
boil, and it was only afterwards that it occurred to him that Miss
Silver had taken a great deal for granted. She had, for instance,
assumed that he had not only a special but a proprietary interest in
Candida, and his reply had admitted as much. The odd thing about it was
that not only did he not resent this admission, but that it should give
him a feeling of exhilaration. All the time Louisa Arnold was explaining
that the coffee service was Georgian and quite valuable, and that the
cups had belonged to the Canon’s mother, this feeling persisted.

‘She was a Miss Thwaites and she came from Yorkshire. That is her
portrait over the bookcase. Those tinted drawings were all the fashion
in the 1830s and ’40s—just a little colour in the lips and eyes, and
some dark shading in the hair. Ladies used a stuff called bandoline to
get that very smooth effect. You see it in the very early portraits of
Queen Victoria. My grandmother had naturally curly hair, but her
daughter, my Aunt Eleanor, never discovered it until her mother was over
eighty. She had kept it banded down all her life, and do you know, it
still curled! My aunt persuaded her to let her fluff it up, and I can
remember her with lovely silver waves under a lace scarf.’

It was some time before Stephen could stem the tide, but they reached
the Miss Benevents in the end. Once there, she was profusely
reminiscent.

‘Oh, yes, we used to play together as children. They were brought up in
rather a peculiar way, you know. Their mother had one of those long
illnesses, and their father was rather a frightening person—so
different from my own dear father, who was the soul of kindness. Olivia
always had the upper hand of poor Cara, even though she was nearly three
years younger. Candida used to stick up for her, but it wasn’t much
good, you know. When anyone has such a yielding disposition you can’t
really do much for them, can you? Candida was the middle one. She wasn’t
much like the other two—taller, and not so dark. I liked her much the
best of the three. But she ran away with a curate who came to do
temporary duty at Stockton, which is just on the other side of the hill.
Papa’s friend, Mr. Hobbisham, was the Vicar, and he was dreadfully upset
about it. Now what was the young man’s name—would it have been Snail?’

Stephen laughed.

‘I expect it was Sayle!’

His Cousin Louisa beamed upon him. She had pretty white hair,
surprisingly blue eyes, and a pink and white complexion.

‘Yes—so it was! How clever of you, my dear boy! Candida met him at a
concert which was got up by the Dean’s sister in connection with a
Chinese mission. He had a very nice tenor voice, and she was playing all
the accompaniments. Candida, I mean of course, not Miss Wrench, who was
a woman I never did care about and a terrible thorn in Papa’s side,
because nobody could possibly help seeing that she was doing her best to
marry him, and she was such a determined person that there was always a
chance she might succeed, poor darling—and I’m sure it would have
killed him. Now let me see—where was I?’ The blue eyes gazed at him
trustfully.

‘Candida Sayle.’ It gave him pleasure to say the name.

‘Oh yes—of course! She married Mr. Sayle, and Mr. Benevent quite cut
her off. I know Papa considered it very harsh of him, because Candida
was of age, and there was nothing against Mr. Sayle’s character. He even
had a little money of his own—not very much, but enough to help them
along until he got a living. I believe he had the promise of one when
they were married. But Mr. Benevent wouldn’t allow Candida’s name to be
mentioned, and I didn’t see so much of the other two after that, because
she was always the one whom I liked the best. And if it is her
grand-daughter who is staying at Underhill I should very much like to
see her.’

Stephen felt tolerably certain that he had not mentioned Candida whilst
Louisa Arnold was in the room. He said, ‘Oh, yes,’ and waited for more.
It was forthcoming.

‘Now who was it was telling me? Someone at the Ladies’ Guild—not Miss
Smithers or Mrs. Brand—I think it must have been Miss Delaney, because
it is connected in my mind with a knitting-pattern for a cardigan, and
it was Miss Delaney who gave me that. She said the quarrel must be made
up, and about time too, because the girl was staying at Underhill and
she had her grandmother’s name. Now of course she would be able to tell
us what Maud is anxious to find out on behalf of Mr. Puncheon, whether
anything has been heard about Alan Thompson. Living in the house, she
would know whether they speak of him at all.’

‘I gather they don’t.’

Louisa Arnold opened her blue eyes very wide indeed.

‘How very extraordinary! But Olivia had a most determined nature. He
must have offended them very much, for they really were quite foolishly
devoted to him. In fact people did say—well, I hardly like to repeat
it, Papa was so very strict about gossip and there is always a good deal
in a cathedral town—but they did say that no one would be surprised if
Cara were foolish enough to marry him.’

Miss Silver said, ‘Dear me!’

Louisa Arnold nodded.

‘There was quite a lot of talk—I heard it myself. Of course there was
the difference in age, but you do hear of such things, do you not? There
was the Baroness Burdett-Coutts—I remember Papa telling us how
displeased Queen Victoria was. And to come down to quite a different
walk of life, old Mrs. Crosby who had the sweet shop in Falcon Street
was married again within the year to quite a young man who came round as
a traveller. They ran the business together and made a very paying thing
of it. People said it wouldn’t come to any good, but they seemed to get
on quite well. But Olivia would never have let Cara do anything foolish.
And now of course there is this other young man, Derek Burdon, but I
believe he calls them Aunt, which is a great deal more suitable. Only of
course it wouldn’t be easy for them to provide for him unless they can
do it out of their savings, because if anything happened to Cara, this
grand-daughter of Candida’s would come in for everything.’

Miss Silver stopped knitting for a moment. Her hands rested on the four
steel needles and the half-finished stocking.

Stephen said sharply,

‘Not Miss Olivia?’

Miss Arnold shook her head.

‘Oh, no, I believe not. It has always been a sore point. Everything was
quite strictly tied up by their grandfather. I remember Papa saying that
it was all very well for Mr. Benevent to talk of cutting Candida off,
but nothing he could do would prevent her or her children inheriting if
Cara died without marrying and having children. So he said the quarrel
was not only unchristian but foolish.’

Miss Silver said quietly,

‘It is not an easy position for Miss Olivia.’

‘Oh, well, it is quite all right for her as long as things go on as they
are. Underhill and most of the money may belong to Cara, but it is
Olivia who manages everything. I don’t suppose poor Cara would have the
least idea about what to do. As a matter of fact, I happen to know that
Olivia makes out all the cheques and Cara just signs them.’

Miss Silver gave the slight cough with which it was her custom to
indicate disapproval.

‘Not at all a satisfactory practice, Louisa.’

‘Oh, no. Papa did not approve of it at all. He always said Olivia had
too much influence. And now, you know, they do say that she has got this
young Candida Sayle here to try and marry her to Derek Burdon. You see,
it would provide for him if anything happened to Cara, and Olivia would
naturally expect to go on having a say in everything.’

Stephen said in a voice of cold fury,

‘What a perfectly monstrous idea!’

Miss Louisa looked surprised.

‘Oh, I don’t know, my dear. He is a very good-looking young man, and not
as spoiled as Alan Thompson. They might take a fancy to each other. But
of course it might not turn out at all as Olivia hoped. There was that
rich Mr. Simpson at Ledford—he made over his house and nearly all his
money to his son in order to escape the death duties. He was quite old
and beginning to be infirm, and he made sure they would look after him,
but almost at once the daughter-in-law began to treat him as if he
didn’t matter. She was very gay and smart, and she filled the house with
a very fast set. Papa said it was a most shocking case, and just like
King Lear! But it all goes to show that you can’t tell what young people
will do, so it might not turn out at all as Olivia had planned.’

It was at this moment by the light of a blinding flash of anger that
Stephen became aware he was in love with Candida Sayle.




                             Chapter Eight


It was next day that Miss Silver met Mr. Puncheon in the street. He was
hurrying along and had already passed her in a short-sighted manner,
when he seemed suddenly to recollect himself and turned back.

‘Miss Silver—I really beg your pardon! I have been wanting to see
you—I was immersed in my thoughts. Indeed I was hoping very much to see
you. I suppose you could not spare a little time? My shop is just here.
I had only stepped out to post a letter—the answer to an enquiry about
a somewhat rare book.’

Miss Silver’s errand not being of a pressing nature, and her own
thoughts having been to some extent occupied with Mr. Puncheon’s Problem
and some kindred subjects, she acquiesced in her most gracious manner
and found herself presently entering a shop with a gabled front and
every appearance of having been there for some hundreds of years. Inside
it was dark and crowded with books from the uneven floor to the low
black beams overhead. Mr. Puncheon took her through to still gloomier
depths at the back, where he opened a door and disclosed quite a tidy
office with a modern writing-table and some comfortable
nineteenth-century chairs. After allowing her to precede him he paused
on the threshold to address an elderly woman in black.

‘I shall be a little time, Ellen. Do not disturb me unless it is really
important.’ After which he came in and shut the door.

A gas fire burned on the hearth. Miss Silver having seated herself, he
took the opposite chair, made a small vexed sound, and remarked that he
had left the fire on again.

‘And of course it is no economy if you do that. But having been always
used to a coal fire, I find that I go out and leave it, and of course
that annoys my sister.’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘It is not so easy to form new habits. I find the fire very pleasant.
Was there something you wished to ask me, Mr. Puncheon?’

He took off his glasses and looked at her in a defenceless manner.

‘Oh, yes. I want to ask you whether you would advise and help me
professionally. What you said in the train—I haven’t been able to get
it out of my head.’

‘And what was it that I said, Mr. Puncheon?’

‘It was in reply to something that I said myself. We were talking about
Mrs. Harbord who had worked for the Miss Benevents. I said she had told
my sister that my stepson Alan never went away from Underhill. It was a
strange thing to say, wasn’t it?’

‘Very strange.’

‘She kept on saying so. Ellen thought it was all nonsense. Why should
the Miss Benevents say he had gone away if he hadn’t? That’s what Ellen
said. But when I said it to you, Miss Silver, you said—well, you said
that you thought Mrs. Harbord ought to be asked to answer that
question.’

Miss Silver looked at him and said gravely and clearly,

‘Yes, I remember. I still think so, Mr. Puncheon.’

He was rubbing his glasses with a large white handkerchief. The initial
embroidered across the corner did not look like professional work. It
went through Miss Silver’s mind to wonder whether it had been the work
of his dead wife. He said,

‘Yes—yes—that was what I was coming to. You said that she ought to be
asked. And I think so too, but I really can’t bring myself to do it. The
daughter-in-law was really very disagreeable—one of those boisterous
women. My wife—my late wife I should say—was an extremely gentle
person. I really do not feel at all able to cope. And I thought if you
would perhaps accept the commission—on a professional footing—’ He did
not seem able to get any farther than that.

Miss Silver looked at him seriously.

‘You wish me to interview Mrs. Harbord?’

The word obviously startled him.

‘Well, I thought—perhaps—you would see her. And if you do not mind, I
think it would be better not to say anything to my sister about it. You
see, she took such a very decided line, and strife in the house is not
what I’ve been accustomed to.’

A few preliminary enquiries informed Miss Silver that Mrs. Harbord,
though no longer confined to her bed, was still in a very weak and
melancholy way, and that the widowed daughter-in-law whose children were
of school age went out to work by the day. Miss Arnold, it appeared,
knew all about her.

‘Oh, yes, she goes to the Deanery. Mrs. Mayhew says she is an absolute
treasure. Of course she is Chapel. How shocked dear Papa would have been
at the idea of employing a dissenter, but people can’t pick and choose
as they used to, and she is a marvellous worker—never stops for a
moment and gets through about twice as much as anyone they have ever
had. Mrs. Mayhew says she is more than worth the extra sixpence an hour
she asks.’

With this and other helpful information at her disposal, Miss Silver
considered that an early hour in the afternoon would be the most
suitable time for a call.

The appearance of the small house in Pegler’s Row certainly bore out the
character ascribed to the younger Mrs. Harbord. The front door step was
whitened, the four windows, two up and two down, looked as if they had
just been cleaned, and spotless curtains screened the rooms behind them
from the public eye. The small brass door-knocker shone. Miss Silver
used it. After an interval she heard a slow, dragging step in the
passage behind the door. It opened a very little way and a tall,
stooping woman came into view—at first no more of her than a poking
head and a hand, but after a moment the whole bent figure in a decent
black dress with a grey shawl caught about the shoulders. At the sight
of Miss Silver she stepped back and said in a hollow voice,

‘If it’s for my daughter-in-law, she won’t be in till five.’

Miss Silver smiled pleasantly.

‘Oh, no, Mrs. Harbord, my visit is to yourself. But you should not be
standing at the door. May I come in?’

The days are long when you are alone during most of the dragging hours.
Mrs. Harbord no longer felt well enough to engage in the active
household tasks with which she had been used to fill her days. By the
time she had dressed herself and made shift to do her room she felt fit
for nothing but to drop into a chair and mind the kitchen fire. On a
good day she would get the children’s dinner, but mostly Florrie would
leave everything ready, so that she only had to have it hot by the time
they came home. She had never been a reader, and there were a great many
hours in the day. Miss Silver would be someone from the Chapel—she had
heard that the minister had an aunt coming to stay—or perhaps someone
from the Ladies’ Guild. Anyhow she would be someone to talk to.

‘If you wouldn’t mind coming into the kitchen,’ she said. ‘It’s warm in
there. We’ve a nice front room, but the fire isn’t lit.’

A poor thing she might be, but she had yet to be ashamed of taking
anyone into her kitchen. All nicely tidied up it was, and the children
back at school. She had her chair by the fire and a footstool in front
of it, and a second chair that could be pulled up for the visitor. She
was glad to get back into the warm, and that was a fact. It was cold in
the passage, and she felt the cold these days.

Miss Silver looked at her in a sympathetic manner and said,

‘I am afraid you are not very strong, Mrs. Harbord. You must not let me
tire you. My name is Silver—Miss Maud Silver. I thought perhaps we
might talk for a little. It must be lonely for you here with your
daughter-in-law out all day and the children at school.’

Mrs. Harbord said,

‘Yes, it’s lonely. Only I don’t know that I could do with the children
all the time—two of them, and twins. And I don’t know which of them
makes the most noise, the boy or the girl. Just turned eight they
are—and lively—you wouldn’t believe it.’

Miss Silver smiled in a friendly manner.

‘It sounds as if they were very strong and healthy.’

A gleam of pride appeared on Mrs. Harbord’s face.

‘Oh, they’re healthy,’ she said. ‘They take after their mother. Now my
poor son, he was always ailing from a baby. Died when the twins were
three months old, and what we’d have done I _don’t_ know, only I had my
health, and Florrie went out to work. My old mother was alive then, and
she’d mind the babies. I don’t think I’d come to being the one to sit at
home and be a burden. The doctor, he says there’s no reason why I can’t
get well, but I don’t, and that’s a fact.’

‘I am sure you did not think your mother a burden when she was looking
after the babies and making it possible for you and your daughter-in-law
to work.’

Mrs. Harbord shook her head. Her mother had been a very decided old
lady. She would have made short work of anyone who set up to consider
her a burden. Even Florrie had been under her thumb.

‘She was able for more than what I am,’ she said.

Before she knew quite how it came about she found herself telling Miss
Silver all about her mother. There were incidents which she had not
recalled for years. Miss Silver displayed great skill in steering her
past deathbeds and family illnesses to such cheerful occasions as
weddings, christenings, and outings. Mrs. Wild had appeared at the
twins’ christening in a bonnet with two black ostrich feathers which
nobody knew she possessed.

‘Down in the bottom of her box she’d got them, and a wonder the moths
hadn’t been at them. “Why mother,” I said, “wherever did you get those
feathers?” And it seems my Uncle Jim brought them from South Africa when
he came home after the Boer war. And just to think she’d never had them
out all those years! Not when poor Father died, nor my husband, nor poor
Ernie. And she tosses her head and says feathers is for joyful
occasions, not for funerals, and she’s going to wear them for the twins,
poor little fatherless things, and may be they’ll bring them a bit of
good luck.’ She broke off to give a heavy sigh and say, ‘Oh, well, I had
my health then. I could bicycle out the three miles and do a day’s work
and not so much as feel tired at the end of it.’

Miss Silver said in a sympathetic voice,

‘You used to work at Underhill, did you not, with the Miss Benevents?’

Mrs. Harbord’s flow of reminiscence was arrested. She looked sideways
and said,

‘I’m sure I never mentioned it.’

‘There was no reason why you should not do so.’

‘I left on account of my health.’ Mrs. Harbord’s voice shook. ‘And I was
never one to talk.’

Miss Silver looked at her.

‘What would there be to talk about?’

Mrs. Harbord’s hand went up to her lips and stayed there. Her eyes
shifted. She said,

‘I don’t know, I’m sure.’ And then quite suddenly words came pouring
out. ‘I don’t know anything—why should I? I just went there for the
cleaning—there wasn’t anything for me to talk about.’

It was no use, she couldn’t go on looking away. She had to turn her eyes
back again to meet Miss Silver’s. She did so, and found them very clear
and kind.

‘Pray do not distress yourself, Mrs. Harbord. But when you have
something on your mind, I think you know that you cannot get rid of it
by pretending it is not there. I think that you have something on your
mind. I think it has been there for a long time, and that it is
frightening you and preventing you from getting well. You began to tell
Mrs. Kean about it, did you not, but you did not go on.’

Mrs. Harbord still had that shaking hand pressed against her lips. It
came down now and went out groping to the arm of the chair. She said in
a startled voice,

‘Ellen Kean—did she send you? I thought—’

‘No, she did not send me. You asked her to come and see you because you
were very ill and you had something on your mind, but when she came you
did not tell her very much.’

Mrs. Harbord said in a choked voice,

‘She came in—and she sat there—and she didn’t believe a word I said.
She come like it was her Christian duty to come, and because I sent for
her. She’d gone up in the world, and I’d gone down, but we went to
school together. There isn’t much I don’t know about Ellen Kean, and her
duty is what she’d always do. But when it comes to bowels and mercies,
Ellen hasn’t got them, and that’s a fact. Sat there and looked at me as
cold as ice and told me I was talking nonsense. So I didn’t have any
more to say.’

‘That was when you told her that the stories about Alan Thompson were
not true?’

Mrs. Harbord’s voice sharpened.

‘I don’t say there wasn’t plenty that might have been true. Favour is
deceitful, and beauty is vain, and the way the young women ran after him
was enough to turn anyone’s head. And not only the young ones neither,
but I’m not talking about that. Only what I had on my mind and what I
told Ellen Kean was gospel truth, and she hadn’t any cause to disbelieve
me. You said you didn’t come from her?’

Miss Silver made a slight negative movement of the head. Her voice, her
look, her manner were having a tranquillizing effect. Mrs. Harbord’s
breathing was more normal and she no longer clutched the arm of her
chair. The time had come for a more open approach. She said,

‘I am not acquainted with Mrs. Kean. It is Mr. Puncheon who has asked me
to come and see you. He is very much troubled at the stigma which rests
upon his stepson’s name. It would be a great relief to his mind if he
could know that it was not deserved. His late wife felt the whole thing
very deeply. He feels that he owes it to her to do what he can to clear
her son. It was said, I believe, that Alan Thompson had stolen money and
a diamond brooch from the Miss Benevents before his disappearance, and
what you told Mrs. Kean was that he was innocent.’

Mrs. Harbord flushed.

‘I told her, and she didn’t believe me!’

‘You told her that he had never left Underhill.’

Mrs. Harbord began to cry.

‘I didn’t ought to have said that. And I wouldn’t, only for her sitting
there being so unbelieving. Because it stands to reason he must have
gone. Only he didn’t take Miss Cara’s diamond brooch, for I saw it
afterwards, lying there just inside the drawer of Miss Olivia’s
looking-glass—one of those old-fashioned ones, up on a stand with a lot
of little drawers, and she always kept the middle one locked. Only this
time it wasn’t. The keys were there sticking in it, and my duster caught
them and pulled it out. And there was the brooch they said he took—a
kind of a spray with diamond flowers and leaves. Miss Cara wore it a lot
of an evening, and for best. And there it was in Miss Olivia’s drawer,
and Mr. Alan’s coin that Miss Cara gave him lying there with it.’

‘What was this coin?’

Mrs. Harbord’s voice dropped.

‘It was some kind of an old one—gold by the look of it. And it had a
hole in it with a ring through it so it could be hung on a chain. He
wore it like that round his neck. Miss Cara gave him the chain too. And
there they were in the drawer, the two of them. Oh, ma’am—that’s what
I’ve got on my mind! He’d never have left them!’

‘Why do you say that, Mrs. Harbord?’

‘Miss Cara, she told him it was a luck charm. He showed it to me one day
when I was up doing his room—pulled it out of the neck of his shirt and
told me all about it. Very free and open he was. “Look at what Miss Cara
had given me!” he said. “Hundreds of years old and a real mascot. I’ll
have good luck as long as I wear it, and I can’t be hurt by wound nor
poison. Nice to know that, isn’t it, in case anyone ever had the idea of
sticking a knife into me or putting something into my tea.” I said,
“Mercy, Mr. Alan! Who would do that!” and he laughed and said, “Oh, you
never can tell.” Well, do you know, not a month after that something
broke in the car when he was driving it, and it went smash into a wall
at the bottom of Hill Lane. And he come out of it without a scratch.
“What did I tell you, Mrs. Harbord?” he said. “That charm of Miss Cara’s
is a mascot all right. I ought to have been killed, and here I am
without a scratch. You won’t catch me leaving it off in a hurry.” Which
was vain superstition, but I could see that he meant it. And not a week
later they were saying he had run off with goodness knows how much money
and that brooch of Miss Cara’s, and I can’t say anything about the money
except that it’s foolishness to keep a lot in the house—just asking for
trouble to my way of thinking! But that brooch of Miss Cara’s he never
took for I saw it with my own eyes in Miss Olivia’s drawer a matter of
ten days after that, and the coin and the chain was there along with it
like I told you. And a week later the two ladies went off abroad. And
why would Mr. Alan leave that coin of his behind?’

Miss Silver said in a considering voice,

‘If he had been found out in a theft he might have been asked to give it
back, and the brooch too. The Miss Benevents might not have wished to
prosecute, but they would certainly have required the restitution of the
brooch, and if they set a special value on the coin and chain they might
have required him to give that back too. It could have happened that
way, Mrs. Harbord.’

‘Well then, it didn’t! Not to Miss Cara’s knowledge anyhow, for the very
day before they went abroad I was coming along the passage, and there
was the two of them in Mr. Alan’s room, and the door on the jar. Miss
Cara was crying, and Miss Olivia was scolding her. Very harsh she spoke,
and I thought it was a shame. “You ought to have more pride,” she said.
“Crying for a thief and a runaway! A common thief that could steal from
those that trusted him!” And Miss Cara said, “If he wanted the brooch he
could have had it. I would have given him anything he wanted.” And Miss
Olivia said very sharp, “Well, you gave him too much. And what did he do
but put ideas into his head, and when he saw he’d gone too far he went
off with what he could lay his hands on, and you can say goodbye to your
brooch and to the lucky charm you set so much store by, for you’ll never
see them again.” And Miss Cara cried fit to break her heart and said she
wouldn’t care for anything as long as he would come back.’

‘And what did Miss Olivia say to that?’

Mrs. Harbord’s voice dropped to a solemn whisper.

‘She said, “You’ll never see him again.” ’




                              Chapter Nine


It was when Candida had been at Underhill for a little over a week that
she came back from Retley to find Miss Cara Benevent in her room.
Something had been said about going to a cinema with Derek, but in the
end she lunched with Stephen, and by the time Derek turned up she
thought perhaps they had better go home. She didn’t really like the way
that things were shaping. She told him so as they drove through the
rain.

‘They’ll think I’ve been lunching with you.’

He gave her a charming smile.

‘Darling, can I help what they think?’

‘Of course you can! You don’t say so outright, but you pull things round
so that it looks as if we were going to be together—and I tell you
straight out, Derek, it’s got to stop.’

‘Darling, you have only to say, “Dear Aunts, I cannot tell a lie. I am
not lunching with Derek, and he is not lunching with me.” ’ He made a
mock serious recitation of it and ended up with a laugh. ‘At least
that’s all you’ve got to say if what you want is a roof-lifting row.
Personally I am all for the quiet life.’

‘I won’t go on helping you to tell lies.’

‘And who’s telling lies, darling? Not me—not you. You hadn’t arranged
to lunch with Stephen today, had you? Well then, how could you have told
them you were going to? Upsetting for the old dears, and rather forward
of you, don’t you think? Because I’m sure you were much too nicely
brought up to go running after a young man and asking him to take you
out.’

Candida looked at him with anger. She liked him—you couldn’t help
liking him—but she could have boxed his ears half a dozen times a day.
She said,

‘Don’t be silly. I mean what I said.’

His shoulders lifted.

‘Oh, just as you like. We go home, and we say, “Dear Aunts, Candida has
been lunching with Stephen, and I—” Now I wonder where I was lunching?
Do you think there would be any chance of my getting across with a lapse
of memory, like the people who disappear into the blue and turn up again
smiling after seven years or so to say they can’t remember anything
about it?’

‘I shouldn’t think so.’

He laughed.

‘No, nor should I. Besides, better kept for a major emergency, don’t you
think? But you know, seriously, darling, what is the sense in having
rows? It upsets them, it upsets me. And if you had a nice womanly
nature, it would upset you.’

Candida flushed brightly.

‘Peace at any price!’

‘And the quiet life. How right you are!’

She looked ahead of them into the pouring rain. Low grey sky and a flat
grey road, bare hedgerows and fields with all the colour drained out of
them, a monotony of dullness and damp. What was the use of being angry?
It had no more effect upon Derek than the rain-water running in streams
over the bonnet of the car. Water off a car’s bonnet, water off a duck’s
back. There was something about him which didn’t let anything through—a
gay shining surface which protected whatever there was underneath. On
the impulse she said,

‘Derek, are you really fond of them—at all?’

He looked round at her for a moment, his dark eyes smiling.

‘Of the old dears? But of course I am! What do you take me for?’

‘I don’t know—that’s the trouble. And I said _really_.’

He burst out laughing.

‘Darling, aren’t you being a bit intense? Now suppose I was just a
scheming villain like the chap they had here before Alan Thompson. He
went off with what cash he could lay hands on and some of the family
diamonds. Well, suppose I was like that and you asked me if I was fond
of the aunts, what do you suppose I would say? Swear to it every time,
wouldn’t I? I’d be a fool if I didn’t—and it’s too much to expect of
your luck to let you get away with being both a knave and a fool. So
when I tell you that I really am fond of them, you naturally won’t
believe me any more than I’d believe myself if I were you, and that gets
us exactly nowhere.’

She said slowly, ‘I think you are fond of Cara.’

He nodded.

‘Well, I am, whether you think so or not. They’ve both been very good to
me.’

She went on as if he had not spoken.

‘You don’t like it when Olivia bullies her.’

He put up a hand between them.

‘Oh, switch off the X-ray! It’s not decent to look right through one.’

‘She does bully her,’ said Candida. ‘I don’t like it either.’

The conversation stopped there, because they had turned in at the gate
of Underhill.

Candida passed through the empty hall and ran upstairs. It was three
o’clock in the afternoon, and there was no one about. The Miss Benevents
would be resting, and the staff would be in their own quarters. She
passed along the winding passages to her room. As she approached it she
heard the sound of weeping. It was a low sound made up of sighing
breaths and a faint sobbing. The door of the room stood ajar, and the
sound came from there. After a moment of hesitation she widened the gap
and looked in.

Miss Cara stood by the cold hearth, her fingers wrung together and the
tears trickling down her chin. She said, ‘Alan—’ under her breath. And
then she must have heard Candida cross the threshold, for she started,
turned, and put out her hands. The next moment they were covering her
face.

‘Aunt Cara—what is it?’

The hands dropped. She peered at Candida.

‘I thought—I thought—I was thinking about him—and when you came
in—just for a moment I thought—’

It was like seeing a child who has been hurt. Candida put her arms round
the little trembling creature.

‘Dear Aunt Cara!’

The young warm voice, the words, quite broke Miss Cara down. She began
to weep with all a child’s lack of restraint. Candida detached herself
for long enough to shut and lock the door, and then returned to put Miss
Cara into a chair and kneel beside her. There was nothing she could do
except to find the handkerchief which was being groped for and to murmur
the only half-articulate words and phrases with which she would indeed
have tried to comfort a child.

As the weeping stilled, Miss Cara herself began to produce
words—snatches of sentences—and the name which had so long been
forbidden. She said it over and over again, always on the same note of
desolation,

‘Alan—Alan—Alan—’ And then, ‘If I only knew—where he was—’

Candida said gently, ‘You have never heard?’

The word came back to her like a sighing echo,

‘Never—’

‘You were very fond of him?’

One of the small stiff hands took hold of hers and held it tight.

‘So very—fond of him. But he went away . . . This was his room—when
you came in I thought—’

‘Why did he go?’

Miss Cara shook her head.

‘Oh, my dear, I don’t know. There was no need—indeed there wasn’t.
Olivia said he took money and my diamond spray, but I would have given
him anything he wanted. He knew that. You see, Olivia doesn’t know
everything. I have never told her—I’ve never told anyone. If I tell
you, you won’t tell her, or—or laugh at me?’ The clasp on Candida’s
wrist became desperate.

‘Oh, no, of course I won’t.’

‘I’ve never had a secret from her all my life, but she wouldn’t
understand. She is so much cleverer than I am, and she has always told
me what I ought to do. But clever people don’t always understand
everything, do they? Olivia doesn’t understand about being fond of
anyone. When Alan went she just said he was ungrateful and she didn’t
want to hear any more about him. But you don’t stop being fond of anyone
because they do something that is wrong. She didn’t understand that at
all.’

‘I’m so sorry, Aunt Cara.’

Miss Cara said,

‘You are kind. Candida was kind—my sister Candida. She loved your
grandfather and she went away with him, and Papa would never allow us to
mention her name. I didn’t understand then, but I do now. I would have
gone anywhere with Alan if he had wanted me to—anywhere.’ She dropped
her voice to a shaking whisper. ‘Do you know, we were going to be
married. I’ve never told anyone, but you are kind. Of course it wouldn’t
have been a real marriage—there was too much difference in our
ages—more than thirty years. It wouldn’t have been right. But if he was
my husband, I had what they call a power of appointment and I could
leave him quite a lot of the money for his life. I remember the lawyer
telling me so when Papa died. He said, “If you marry, Miss Cara, under
your grandfather’s will you can use this power of appointment and leave
your husband a life interest whether there are any children or not.” And
Olivia said, “Then she could use it to leave the life interest to me.”
And he said, “I’m afraid not, Miss Olivia. The power of appointment
could only be used in favour of a husband. If Miss Cara were to die
unmarried, the will provides for the major part of the estate to pass to
your next sister, Mrs. Sayle, or her heirs, your own portion remaining
just as it is at present.” I have a very good memory, and I have always
remembered just what he said. But Olivia was very angry indeed. She
waited until he had gone, and then she said our grandfather hadn’t any
right to make a will like that, and what was the good of my having the
money when I didn’t know how to manage it, and she ought to come in
before Candida’s children. Oh, my dear, she said dreadful things! You
see, our sister Candida died before Papa did, and Olivia said she hoped
Candida’s children would die too, and then she would come into her own.
Of course she didn’t mean it, but it was a dreadful thing to say.’

Candida felt as if something cold had touched her. It didn’t come from
Miss Cara—her hand was burning hot. It let go of her wrist now and went
up to touch the carefully ordered hair, incongruously black above the
ravaged face. She had stopped crying, and though her eyelids were
reddened and the smooth powdered surface of her skin had been impaired,
she had a relaxed look.

‘It’s nice to have someone to talk to,’ she said in quite a pleased
voice. ‘But you won’t tell Olivia, will you?’




                              Chapter Ten


On the following day when Candida had finished her driving lesson she
found Stephen Eversley waiting for her, his car parked outside the
garage. He said briefly,

‘Get in—we’re going for a run.’

‘But, Stephen—’

‘I want to talk to you. Get in!’

He was banging the door and backing out before she had managed to
produce any of her reasons for wanting to get back early. By the time
she did produce them they were threading one of Retley’s narrower
streets, and she couldn’t very well cavil at his abrupt, ‘I can’t talk
in traffic.’ A sideways glance showed her a frowning profile which she
had not seen before. Under a slight surface glow there was the feeling
that she rather liked a man who took his own way. Not tiresomely or all
the time, but when occasion required. She sat with her hands in her lap
and just the beginnings of a smile in her eyes until they ran out upon
an open road with fields on either side. When she looked at him again
the profile was as before. She said in her sweetest voice,

‘May I speak now? Where are we going?’

‘Somewhere where we can talk.’

‘What I was trying to say when you wouldn’t let me was that I ought to
get back.’

‘Not yet. I want to talk to you.’

‘Won’t this do?’

‘No, it won’t. When I say talk, I mean properly—not with a dozen ears
flapping in that damned café, or when I ought to have my mind on the
road!’

‘There doesn’t seem to be anything on the road except ourselves, does
there?’

He laughed angrily.

‘There might be at any moment! I’ve got a feeling you could be
aggravating enough to distract me from three motorbuses abreast!’

‘Is that a compliment? And do I say thank you?’

‘No, it isn’t, and you don’t! We’re going to park here.’

The road had developed those wide grass verges which foreign visitors so
justly consider to be wasteful of land which might be growing something
of a more edible nature than grass. Stephen drove on to a green level
stretch and stopped the car. Then he turned to face her and said,

‘All right—now we can get going.’

Candida considered him. He had a determined look—determined and
purposeful. His hair was ruffled and his eyes were a hard bright blue.
She had no idea why she should want to laugh, but she did.

‘Well, it’s your programme.’

‘What are you being meek about? I don’t like it, and you needn’t think
it takes me in! Anyhow what is it all about? We can’t talk in that
café—you know that as well as I do!’

‘What do you want to talk about, Stephen?’

He said, ‘You. How long are you staying at Underhill?’

‘I don’t really know. Why?’

‘I don’t want you to stay there.’

His brows were a straight line above frowning eyes. Her own brows lifted
a little.

‘Dear Stephen, you needn’t see me if you don’t want to.’

His hand came down upon her knee.

‘Look here, I don’t want that sort of thing! I’m serious!’

Something in her shrank. She didn’t want to know what he meant. She
didn’t want to be as serious as all that. She wanted to enjoy the thrust
and parry, the advance and retreat, of a surface relationship. She
wasn’t ready for anything else—not yet. But she had only to look at him
to know that what he had brought her here to say he would say. In a way
it pleased her, and in a way she was angry with herself for being
pleased. The anger tinged her voice.

‘All right, go on.’

‘I want you to go away.’

‘Why?’

‘I don’t like your being there.’

‘Why don’t you like it?’

‘I think it would be better if you went away.’

Her colour had been bright. That is how he saw her, as an angry
brightness. She was bare-headed. Her hair shone. Her eyes were darkly
blue. And then the brightness went. The carnation left her cheeks and
she was pale. She said quite quietly,

‘You will have to tell me why.’

He had known that all along, and he had not thought that it would be
hard. It was the sort of thing that came trippingly from the tongue in
one of those conversations which you have in your own mind, and which
are amazingly intractable when you try to reproduce them in real life.
He had to push the words to get them across.

‘I don’t like the place. I don’t like you being there. I want you to
clear out.’

‘You still haven’t told me why.’

He said with a sudden jerk in his voice,

‘Do you suppose I want you to go away? You know I don’t. If you go, I’ll
come after you—you know that too. Or if you don’t you’re a lot stupider
than I think you are.’

He hadn’t meant to say anything like that. The things he had meant to
say wouldn’t come. He was a fool to have touched her. He removed his
hand abruptly.

This new pale Candida looked at him and said,

‘No, I’m not really stupid. You will just have to tell me why you don’t
want me to stay at Underhill.’

He did get it out then. He said,

‘I don’t think it’s safe.’

There was a pause before she said,

‘I don’t know what you mean.’

The trouble was that he didn’t know very well himself. If he had had
anything in the way of knowledge to put before her he wouldn’t be
sitting here like a tongue-tied fool. All that he had was an echo from
the past, some odds and ends of hearsay, and this steady current of
feeling setting away from Underhill. He hadn’t liked the place to start
with, but it wasn’t any of his business to have likes or dislikes about
what only came his way professionally. All the same he hadn’t liked it.
The whole situation of the house there under the hill, those cellars
into which he had been conducted—there was something about them which
promoted more than a misliking. It might have been Miss Olivia
Benevent’s cold reluctance to take him there. It might have been partly
the feeling that he had not been allowed to make enough of an
examination to justify the opinion which was being sought. He had come
away angry and frustrated, and had reported that he would have to make a
much more detailed inspection before he could advise upon the work to be
undertaken. Since then the whole affair appeared to have lapsed. He had
two other jobs in the neighbourhood, or he would have had no real
pretext for remaining at Retley. He sat there frowning.

She repeated her words with a difference, slight in the arrangement but
with a marked deepening of the manner in which they were said.

‘Stephen, what do you mean?’

‘Don’t you ever have a feeling about things?’

‘Sometimes.’

‘I’ve got a feeling about you being at Underhill.’

She was frowning too.

‘A feeling—or a prejudice?’

‘Why should I have a prejudice?’

‘Aunt Olivia could have given you one.’

‘Why should she?’

‘She can be—very—rude.’

Stephen laughed.

‘To the mere architect? You don’t suppose I should worry about that!’

‘You might.’

‘Well, I didn’t. Candida, I don’t want to say any more. Can’t you take
it that there are things that won’t go into words—and clear out?’

She had a sudden leaping impulse to do just that. She heard her own
voice say,

‘I haven’t got anywhere to go, and they know it.’

‘How do you mean, you haven’t got anywhere to go?’

‘Barbara only had her house on a lease. I couldn’t afford to pay the
rent, and somebody else is moving in. I shall have to find a job.’

‘Are you looking for one?’

‘Not yet. They want me to stay on. There’s the family history—I think
they’re beginning to realise that it won’t get very far if it’s left to
Derek.’

Stephen said roughly,

‘I suppose you know why they want you to stay?’

‘Don’t you think it might be because they like having me?’

His roughness was shot with anger.

‘They want to marry you off to their precious Derek!’

She had been sitting round to face him. She turned now and looked
straight ahead through the driving screen. The long green verge
stretched away before eyes that were clouded by an angry mist. She said
in a small cold voice,

‘I think we had better go back.’

He took hold of her and pulled her round again.

‘Don’t be a fool! I want you to listen to me! You don’t care for Derek,
and he doesn’t care for you. He’s got a girl in the town—everyone knows
that except the Miss Benevents. But that is their plan. When they find
out about Derek things aren’t going to be so good for him, or for you.
They may find out any day, and when they do there’ll be a blow-up. Look
here, Candida, you know that your grandmother was the middle one of the
three sisters—you told me about finding a photograph with their names
and ages. Well, my old cousin Louisa Arnold knew them all very well, and
she says your grandmother or her descendants come in for the greater
part of the estate if Miss Cara dies unmarried.’

‘Yes, I knew that. Aunt Cara told me.’

Stephen said bluntly,

‘Well, that cuts Miss Olivia out. Do you suppose she likes it?’

In her mind Candida heard Miss Cara’s little trembling voice—‘Oh, my
dear, she said dreadful things . . . Our sister Candida died before
Papa, and Olivia said she hoped Candida’s children would die too, and
then she would come into her own . . . It was a dreadful thing to say.’
She spoke to drown the sound of it.

‘No—no—of course she doesn’t like it. But there isn’t anything she can
do. I mean even if I married Derek it wouldn’t really help.’

He said grimly,

‘She might think it would. He’s an easy-going chap and pretty well under
her thumb. But if the plan broke down—’

There was something there between them.

She said, ‘No!’ But he was putting it into words. He said,

‘Why did she tell you that the tide wasn’t high until eleven?’

It was as if she had known what was coming. The shock of saying it was
his, the shock of hearing it was hers. The two shocks came together and
were one. Everything else went before the impact. She put out her hands,
and he took them. The strong clasp hurt her, but she clung to it. She
heard herself say,

‘No—no—it wasn’t.’

‘If you mean it wasn’t the Miss Benevents at the hotel in Eastcliff, you
must know perfectly well that it was. I went round there next day, and
you had gone, but they hadn’t. Their names were in the visitors’ book,
and they passed through the hall whilst I was looking at it. They were
there, and because they told you the tide wouldn’t be high until eleven
you went walking on the beach and you were nearly drowned. And they knew
who you were when they told you that, because they had just seen you
write your name. You told me all about it when we were stuck up there on
the cliff. They saw you write your name—Candida Sayle—and they
remarked on it. And right on top of that they told you what a nice walk
there was along the beach, and that the tide would not be high until
eleven.’

The outer wall of Candida’s defence fell down with a crash. He knew too
much, he remembered too well. She said on a quick breath,

‘It wasn’t Aunt Cara—I’m sure it wasn’t Aunt Cara.’

‘She was there when it was said.’

Candida tried to pull away her hands, but he held them.

‘She would think anything Aunt Olivia said was right. She is like
that—you know she is.’

He nodded briefly.

‘All right, that goes for her. But it doesn’t go for Miss Olivia, does
it? What was in her mind when she told you a lie about the tide?’

Candida said in a desperate voice,

‘She couldn’t have known that it was a lie.’

He let go of her and sat back.

‘Can you make yourself believe that? You can’t make me believe it.’

‘Stephen!’

‘I want you to leave Underhill.’

‘Stephen, I can’t.’

‘Why can’t you?’

‘I said I would stay and do this job with Derek.’

‘You can say you have got to go back and see about a job, or about your
Aunt Barbara’s business, or anything that comes into your head.’

‘I won’t tell lies just because—just because—And there’s Aunt
Cara—she’s got fond of me. Stephen, she’s pathetic. Olivia bullies her,
and she’s grateful if anyone is kind.’

He said in a masterful voice,

‘I want you to leave Underhill.’




                             Chapter Eleven


Back at his hotel, he rang up his cousin Louisa Arnold. When she
answered, there were the sort of preliminaries in which he had learned
to participate.

‘You are well, my dear boy?’

‘Oh, yes. And you, Cousin Louisa?’

There was some dalliance with Miss Arnold’s suspicion, contracted last
night, that she might have taken a slight chill. This had, of course, to
be explained in detail, together with the reassuring fact that by
breakfast-time this morning the faint premonitory symptoms had subsided.
She would therefore be able to attend a committee meeting of the
Hospital Flower Guild to which she was pledged.

‘I really do not like to miss it unless I am absolutely obliged to do
so, and dear Maud says she will not mind being left. I should be back by
six o’clock. The meeting is at four, but it would be considered rude if
I did not stay to tea. Mrs. Lowry who is our chairman is always so
hospitable . . .’

The conversation ended in his being pressed to drop in at any time.

Miss Silver was enjoying a comfortable cup of tea in the drawing-room
when he was announced.

‘I am so sorry, Mr. Eversley, I am afraid that Louisa is out.’

He made sure that Eliza Peck had closed the door behind her before he
replied.

‘Yes, she told me she had a meeting. As a matter of fact, I wondered
whether you would allow me to have a talk with you. I understand that
you do take cases and give advice professionally.’

Miss Silver inclined her head.

‘Yes, Mr. Eversley.’

‘Then will you let me talk to you? I—well I’m a good deal worried—’

‘About Miss Candida Sayle?’

‘How did you know?’

She smiled.

‘You were speaking of her the other night. Your concern was evident.’

He remembered that he had talked a good deal about Candida. He had not
realised that his interest had been so obvious.

Before he could speak the door opened to admit Eliza Peck, bearing a
small tray with a second teacup and a supply of hot water. She was a
thin, upright old woman with a daunting air of severity. Her eye
softened slightly as it rested upon Stephen. She liked to see a young
man coming about the house again. Time was when there had been enough of
them and to spare, but that was when she and Miss Louisa were young. She
put down the teacup and the water-jug and went away with the empty tray.

Stephen heard Miss Silver assure him that the tea had only just been
made. He accepted the cup she poured out for him, but almost immediately
put it down again upon the edge of the table.

‘I don’t like her being at Underhill,’ he said.

‘No, Mr. Eversley?’

The lift in her voice made a question of it. He said with emphasis,

‘I don’t like it at all. I want to get her away.’

‘And she wishes to stay?’

‘I don’t believe she does really. Part of the trouble is that she hasn’t
got anywhere to go. The aunt who brought her up has just died. She has
been nursing her for the last three years, so she isn’t trained for
anything, and there’s practically no money, and no relations except the
Miss Benevents.’

Miss Silver commented mildly,

‘An awkward situation.’

‘Yes, it is. And there doesn’t seem to be anything I can do about it. My
parents are dead—the uncle with whom I work is a bachelor—’ He broke
off with a sound of anger. ‘Even if I had rows of female relations, I
don’t suppose it would be of the slightest use. Miss Olivia has got
Candida pegged down to a history of the Benevent family, and she is
letting herself get fond of Miss Cara. She is sorry for her.’

Miss Silver finished her own cup of tea before she said in a thoughtful
voice,

‘Just why do you think she should leave Underhill, Mr. Eversley?’

He said, ‘Look here, this is all between ourselves, isn’t it?’

She gave a slight reproving cough.

‘You have asked for my professional assistance. You can naturally rely
upon my professional secrecy.’

He found himself making an apology.

‘It was just that—well—my Cousin Louisa—’

Miss Silver said graciously,

‘You need be in no anxiety. Pray continue.’

‘I am going to tell you about something that happened more than five
years ago. I was staying at a place called Eastcliff, and I had been out
in a boat bird-watching—it’s a hobby of mine. There’s an island with a
lot of gulls. I was coming back, making for the mainland, when I saw a
girl halfway up the cliffs. She had been caught by the tide, and I could
see that she was stuck. I called out and asked her if she could hold on
whilst I got help. She said she would try. She was spread-eagled there,
with hardly any hold, and I could see that I couldn’t risk it. What I
could do was to run into the cove I was making for and climb along the
cliff to a ledge just over her head. I managed it, and I got her up on
to the ledge. By that time it was too dark to get her off the cliff by
the way I had come, and we had to stay there all night. She was a
schoolgirl of about fifteen, and her name was Candida Sayle. She had
come to Eastcliff to meet friends who didn’t turn up because one of them
had been taken ill. And she got cut off by the tide because two old
ladies staying in the same private hotel had told her that there was a
very nice walk along the beach, and that the tide would not be high
until eleven.’

‘That was a most unfortunate mistake.’

He said doggedly,

‘I don’t believe it was a mistake.’

‘Mr. Eversley!’

‘I can’t believe it. The first thing you find out about at any seaside
place is the tides. And that tide was high at a quarter to nine. Can you
believe that anyone could have been two hours out? And you haven’t heard
everything. Those two women who told Candida that there was such a nice
walk along the beach and that the tide wouldn’t be high till eleven were
the Miss Benevents. They knew who Candida was, because they had watched
her sign her name in the hotel register. They had even commented on its
being an unusual one. But they didn’t tell her that they were her
great-aunts. Oh, no, they just told her what a nice walk there was along
the beach, and that she would have plenty of time to take it because the
tide would not be high until eleven o’clock.’

Miss Silver looked at him gravely.

‘Are you suggesting—’

‘Yes, I am. I’ve been over it and over it, and I don’t think there is
any other explanation. I looked in the register, you know, after Candida
had gone home, and I saw the names—Miss Olivia Benevent—Miss Cara
Benevent. And they passed through the hall whilst I was there. I didn’t
know that there was any family connection with Candida, and from first
to last they never said anything about it themselves, but when they
wrote to my uncle about Underhill I remembered the name, and as soon as
I came down here I remembered them. And then Candida turned up, and I
found she was their niece. That gave me a jolt, and the whole thing
began to come back. And then I found out that Candida’s grandmother and
her descendants came in for most of the property after Miss Cara. Cousin
Louisa was talking about it the other night, do you remember?’

‘Yes, I remember.’

He went on as if she had not spoken.

‘When I told Candida, she said she knew about that. It seems Miss Cara
told her. Now why should she have told her?’

Miss Silver had set down her cup and taken up a half-finished stocking.
The hard grey yarn had a very schoolboy look, and for a fleeting moment
Stephen wondered whom she could be knitting it for. He brushed the
thought aside as she said,

‘I cannot say, Mr. Eversley.’

‘But you can see why I want to get Candida away from Underhill—’

She was knitting sedately.

‘I can see that the incident which you have described made a deep
impression on your mind.’

‘I suppose it did, but it had practically faded out. Then I met her
again, and it all came back, and on the top of it that there was all
this business about Alan Thompson.’

After a short thoughtful pause she said,

‘Yes, there was some talk about Alan Thompson the night you were here
for supper. Louisa had asked you whether he was spoken of at Underhill,
and you replied that you had received the impression he was not to be
mentioned there. Have you anything to add to that reply?’

He said,

‘Yes, I have. Do you remember Cousin Louisa said there had been gossip
about him and Miss Cara—that it had even been said that she might be
going to marry him?’

Miss Silver said in a disapproving voice,

‘There is often a great deal of gossip in a Cathedral town. The society
is formal and the interests restricted. Where such is the case, there is
apt to be an undue emphasis on personal relationships. As Lord Tennyson
so truly says:

               ‘ “And common is the commonplace,
               And vacant chaff well meant for grain.” ’

Unaccustomed to her habit of quotation, Stephen felt slightly stunned.
After a respectful moment had passed he went on.

‘Do you know, I don’t think it was just gossip. There is something that
came my way last night—I think I had better tell you about it.’

‘Yes, Mr. Eversley.’

Her tone made it a statement of fact.

‘Well, it’s like this. I was dining with a Colonel Gatling. He has an
enormous barrack of a house at Hilton St. John about two miles the other
side of Underhill. The original building was one of those small manor
houses, but the Gatlings, who came into it in the 1840s, overbuilt it
with one of those frightful Victorian monstrosities which are now quite
impossible to run. He wants to get it down to its original proportions,
retain a very nice walled garden, and develop the rest of the property
as a building estate. Hilton is an expanding place with an aircraft
factory, and I think the necessary permits will be forthcoming. Well,
that won’t interest you—it’s only to explain how I came to be dining
with Colonel Gatling. He’s been very friendly—he’s a sociable,
convivial old boy.’ He gave an odd half laugh. ‘Well, there’s the key to
what I’ve got for you. He was very friendly and convivial last night. He
talked a lot about his neighbours, and after a bit he got round to the
Miss Benevents. He told me all about their father, one of the fine
crusted Victorian brand, and how he had cut off his daughter Candida
because she had married a parson who was probably the only man she had
ever met. And then he chuckled and came out with, “I wonder what he’d
have said if he’d known that his daughter Cara had come within an ace of
marrying a young waster who might almost have been her grandson!” I
said, “Did she do that?” and he poured himself out another glass of port
and told me the whole story.’

‘He told you that Miss Cara had actually contemplated marrying Alan
Thompson?’

Stephen frowned.

‘He put up an extremely circumstantial story. It seems that his brother
Cyril was the Rector of the old parish church of Hilton, and that for
some reason Underhill falls within that parish.’

Miss Silver exclaimed.

‘Dear me! They surely did not put up the banns there!’

‘Oh, no. But Alan Thompson came to the Rector about getting a
licence—in the strictest confidence.’

Miss Silver looked shocked.

‘Then surely he did not tell his brother! It would be a very serious
breach!’

‘Oh, no, he didn’t tell anyone. But he seems to have been a good deal
troubled at the idea of such a marriage, and he wrote about it in his
diary.’

Miss Silver’s disapproval deepened.

‘Colonel Gatling should have regarded such a diary as sacred.’

Stephen was inclined to agree with her, but he said,

‘Well, he was his brother’s executor, and he wasn’t just rummaging in
the diary. There was some question about rents that had been remitted,
and he went to the diary to see whether it backed up what the tenants
said. The date was a matter of three years ago, and he stumbled on the
Reverend Cyril’s heart-searchings over what he called “this most
unnatural marriage”. He appears to have made strong representations to
Thompson, and to have entirely failed to impress him. Colonel Gatling
quoted him as saying that the young man admitted that the marriage would
be a business arrangement, and defended it on the grounds that Miss Cara
had always had a bad time and been bullied by her sister, and that if he
was her husband he would be in a position to see that she got better
treatment. Cyril Gatling seems to have been very unhappy about the whole
thing, but both parties being of age and _compos mentis_, he didn’t feel
justified in refusing his services. And—this is what will interest you
particularly—the licence was actually in his possession when he heard
that Alan Thompson had gone off into the blue.’

Miss Silver turned the stocking on her needles.

‘Did Colonel Gatling say whether a date had been fixed for the
marriage?’

‘Yes, he did. Alan went off on the fourth of March three years ago. The
marriage was to have taken place on the tenth.’

‘And what conclusions did he draw?’

‘He seems to have been quite bewildered, saying again and again that he
couldn’t understand it. Colonel Gatling repeated phrases like “I simply
cannot understand it. He seemed so determined, so set upon this
marriage, so lacking in any response to any attempts to deter him.”
Colonel Gatling, of course, found the whole thing quite easy of
explanation. He just said, “The fellow got cold feet and bolted.” And
that was that.’

Miss Silver knitted in silence for a while. Roger’s stocking, the second
of the pair, was almost finished. Another half inch and she would have
to begin to think about turning the heel. She said,

‘That would be a natural but superficial explanation. It is possible
that it is the true one, but it does not seem to me to agree with what I
have heard of Alan Thompson’s character. In all the accounts of him he
appears as a good-looking young man with one settled aim in life, to use
his good looks and his charms as a substitute for application and
industry. He had been two years at Underhill when he disappeared, and
from what I have learned from Louisa and others he was during that time
steadily increasing his influence over the Miss Benevents, and
particularly over Miss Cara. When he found that she could be persuaded
into a marriage, and that she would have the power to leave him a life
interest in her property—’

Stephen said, ‘_What!_’

It was an interruption which Miss Silver would not have excused in the
days when she presided over a well-ordered schoolroom, yet at this
moment she regarded it with indulgence. There is a certain satisfaction
in the delivery of a piece of startling news, and it was quite apparent
that what she had just imparted was news which startled Stephen
Eversley. She contented herself therefore with a slight reproving cough
and proceeded,

‘Louisa is my informant, and I have no reason to doubt what she says.
Under the grandfather’s will each daughter who succeeded was to have
this power of appointment. As no doubt you know, it is not an unusual
provision. It was the knowledge that his daughter Candida would have
this power if she ever came into the property which particularly annoyed
Mr. Benevent. He used to come here and talk to Canon Arnold about it,
and the Canon repeated a good deal of what was said to Louisa. So I feel
quite sure that her information is correct. And now, Mr. Eversley, pray
consider whether a young man of Alan Thompson’s determination to settle
himself in life would have thrown away such an opportunity of doing so.’

‘I suppose he could have got cold feet at the last minute. Look here,
what about his letters home? His mother was alive then, wasn’t she? Did
they give any indication of his state of mind?’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked.

‘There were no letters, Mr. Eversley.’

‘Do you mean none at all?’

‘From the time that he threw up his clerkship and left Lenton he never
communicated with his family. He made it quite clear to his stepfather’s
sister, Mrs. Kean, that he did not want to be associated with trade in
any way. He seems to have been unaware that she and her husband had a
bookshop in Retley, and when she recognised him he made it quite clear
that he did not wish to have anything to do with her. These things are
indications of a settled determination to leave his origins behind him
and to establish himself in as favourable a manner as possible. I am
unable to believe that he would throw away such a chance as this
marriage would have offered him.’

‘Well, you know what was said about his going off. Suppose he had been
taking advantage of his opportunities to line his pockets and Olivia had
found him out. She is pretty sharp, you know, and if she had found out
about the proposed marriage at the same time, do you suppose she would
have hesitated to put the screws on him—“Clear out, or we prosecute”?
He wouldn’t really have had much choice, would he?’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘That is quite an ingenious theory, Mr. Eversley, but I believe that it
will not bear any closer scrutiny. It does not reckon with the certain
fact of Alan Thompson’s influence with Miss Cara. When you consider that
it had brought her to within six days of marrying him, and that it was
strong enough to induce her to keep the fact a complete secret from the
sister who had dominated her all her life, it is clear that Alan would
only have had to go to Miss Cara and she would have protected him by
declaring that she had given him the money. By far the larger part of
the income was hers, and she had only to say the missing sum was a gift
from herself. Louisa has told me that she saw Miss Cara just once after
Alan disappeared. They met by accident in the precincts of the
cathedral, and for the moment Miss Cara was alone. She took Louisa by
the hand with the tears running down her face and said, “Oh, why did he
go? There was no need—I would have given him anything!” And then Miss
Olivia came up and took her away. They went abroad a day or two later.’




                             Chapter Twelve


Derek Burdon looked across the table at Candida. It was a big
old-fashioned affair well furnished with drawers, and with such aids to
industry as a large blotting-pad, a massive double inkstand, and plenty
of pens and pencils. There was also an old-fashioned portfolio full of
papers. He said in an exasperated voice,

‘It’s all very well to say we ought to get on with it, but I ask you!’

‘Do you?’

He laughed.

‘Well, I suppose I don’t really. This sort of thing just isn’t my line
of country, you know. Well, I mean to say—is it? The old dears don’t
seem to realise that they might just as well expect me to play the
cathedral organ or to fly a plane! As a matter of fact I wouldn’t mind
learning to fly, but they wouldn’t expect me to do it right away without
learning how, now would they?’

She could not help laughing.

‘I can’t think why you took on a secretarial job.’

He laughed too, and in a perfectly carefree manner.

‘Can’t you? I expect you could if you tried. It was a gift-horse, and I
couldn’t afford to look it in the mouth. You see, the bother about me is
that I’m just no use at earning a living. I haven’t got any vices, but I
haven’t got any of the tiresome virtues either. Industry, application,
perseverance—you know the sort of thing. They used to put bits in my
reports about them. “Lacks application”—that one was always cropping
up. My father used to get wild about it, but I don’t see that it was my
fault. You don’t have a down on anyone simply because he can’t act or
hasn’t got an ear for music. The things just weren’t included in my
make-up, that’s all. Now my father was a really successful business man
until he came a spectacular smash and went off into the blue in his
private plane. No one knows whether he got anywhere or not. Personally I
feel sure that he did, and that he had parked enough money abroad to see
him through. I was eighteen, and as soon as I had done my military
service an uncle with an office shoved me into a junior clerkship, a
completely repellent job. You see, I really do hate work.’ He smiled
disarmingly.

‘Somebody has got to do it,’ said Candida.

‘Yes, darling, but not me—at least not if I can help it. And of course
there are two sides to the business—you have to find an employer who
will put up with me. The uncle stuck it for two years—I give him marks
for that—but he booted me in the end.’

‘How did you come across the Aunts?’

‘Oh, that was easy. I was in a concert party at Eastcliff—they go down
there once in a way to take the sea air—and I had a bit of luck. Miss
Cara twisted her ankle, and I carried her to their hotel. After that the
job just fell into my lap. They’ve been frightfully good to me, and as a
rule I don’t get asked to do anything I can’t manage. It’s this family
history business that gets me down.’

‘Why?’

He rumpled up his hair.

‘Well, it’s a bit above my head, you know. There are pieces in Latin,
and if there was one thing that I was worse at than the other things, it
was Latin. I remember a really frightful row after getting “Doesn’t try”
in a report. That was a chap called Masterman. He had a down on me, and
I fairly loathed him. One of the strenuous, earnest sort.’

‘I haven’t come across any Latin.’

‘No, darling, but you haven’t got very far, have you? Besides, to tell
you the truth, the whole thing gives me the pip. Who cares what people
did two or three hundred years ago? They’re dead and buried, and why not
let them be? It’s like grubbing into graves and digging up a lot of old
bones, and I don’t like it. If you ask me, the whole thing stinks.’

Candida had an odd feeling that something had startled her, but she
didn’t know what it was. There was the hint of an uneasy tone in Derek’s
voice, the hint of an uneasy look behind the smile in his eyes. He
looked past her and said,

‘What I’d like to know is, why have they got so keen about it again all
of a sudden?’

Candida echoed his word.

‘Again?’

He nodded.

‘Yes. It was the chap who was here before me who started on it—Alan
Thompson. You’ve heard about him?’

‘Yes.’

He waved a hand in the direction of the portfolio.

‘Well, all that sort of thing appealed to him, I gather. They don’t talk
about him, you know. He blotted his copybook—went off with the loose
cash and some of Miss Cara’s jewellery. A fairly rotten thing to do,
don’t you think? And stupid too, because—well, they are most awfully
generous, don’t you know? And according to Anna they were pretty well
all over him.’

‘Was it Anna who told you about him?’

He leaned across the table and dropped his voice.

‘Well, she did, and she didn’t. She began, and then all of a sudden she
dried up, and if there is anything less like Anna than to dry up about a
thing before she’s got it chewed to a rag, I don’t know what it is. But
she did tell me that he was dead keen on all this old history stuff, and
sometimes I’ve just wondered whether his going off like that had
anything to do with the Benevent Treasure.’

There was a pause. The sensation of having been startled became
definitely one of shock. Candida found that her breathing had quickened.
She said,

‘Why?’ The word shook a little.

He spoke quickly too.

‘Don’t you see, it would account for it. Suppose he had laid hands on
the treasure and that was what he went off with. Look, I’ll show you
something.’

He opened the portfolio and turned a page or two, took out a folded
document, extracted from it a sheet of thin modern paper neatly
typewritten, and pushed it across to Candida.

‘Here, take a look at that!’

She took it, and would rather have left it alone. There was a heading
which took up two lines—‘Those things carried out of Italy on his
journey to England by Ugo di Benevento in the year 1662.’ After that
there was a list. It began with, ‘Four dishes richly chased and
silver-gilt,’ and went on all down the page. Candida followed it with
extraordinary reluctance. There were things like, ‘Two salt-cellars with
doves—The gold candle-stick reputed to be the work of Messer Benvenuto
Cellini—A bracelet with four large emeralds—A set of twelve ruby
buttons—A necklace of very large rubies in a border of diamonds,’ and
so forth and so on. The items ran together in a dazzle. She lifted her
eyes from them and said,

‘What is it?’

‘What it sets out to be—a list of the things that Ugo got away with. I
wonder how he managed it. The jewels could be tucked away, but all that
plate must have weighed a bit. I wonder if the candlesticks really were
gold.’

Candida said,

‘It’s really more to the point to wonder whether they were the work of
Benvenuto Cellini. They must be enormously valuable if they were. Of
course I could see it was a list of what Ugo carried away—it says so.
What I meant was, what is this list and where does it come from? It’s
not old.’

He laughed.

‘Darling, typewriters weren’t invented in sixteen-whatever-it-was. All I
can tell you is that I found the list tucked inside a very dull paper
about the lease of a farm. And if I’ve got to guess, I should say that
Alan Thompson copied it off an older list and put it where he didn’t
think anyone would meddle with it.’

‘But why?’

‘Well, if I’ve got to go on guessing, I should say that he probably
wasn’t meant to have seen the other list. He may have just come across
it and thought it would be nice to have a copy, or he may have been
doing a spot of snooping—I wouldn’t know. Or of course it’s just
possible that Miss Cara showed it to him. You know, she really was most
awfully fond of him, poor old dear. Anna said it fairly broke her up,
his going off like that. And of course I can’t help wondering whether he
didn’t take the Benevent Treasure or what was left of it along for
company.’

Candida was looking at him.

‘Did Anna ever talk to you about it?’

‘In a way. She told me about Miss Cara being so cut-up.’

‘What did she say?’

He laughed.

‘Interested, aren’t you!’

‘Yes.’

‘Oh, well, why not? It’s your family! Anna came in one day when I had
this stuff out and was trying to make head or tail of it. You may have
noticed she likes talking. She stood the other side of the table where
you are sitting and she talked quite a lot. She began about the
papers—they were all lying about—and she said what did I want with
them, they would be better in the kitchen fire, and hadn’t they done
enough harm already.’

‘What did she mean by that?’

‘Well, I don’t know. Your guess is as good as mine. She said, “Mr. Alan
meddled with them, and look what came of it!” And I said, “What did come
of it?” And she said, “God knows!” and put her hand up to her mouth and
went away. I didn’t think much about it at the time, but after I found
that list I wondered.’

Candida was silent. She looked down into her lap and saw the neat
typing—‘Twelve ruby buttons. . . .’ She pushed the list across the
table and said,

‘I think you ought to show it to the Aunts.’

He shook his head with vigour.

‘Not on your life!’

‘All the papers are theirs.’

He looked at her with momentary shrewdness.

‘You mean they are Miss Cara’s. And do you suppose she wants to have the
Alan Thompson affair raked up again? I gather it very nearly did for her
at the time. Suppose he was up to something he shouldn’t have been. We
don’t know whether he was or whether he wasn’t, but that seems to be
what Miss Cara believes. Well, it would be frightfully cruel to bring it
all back. As I said, she may even have given him the information in this
list herself, and that would make her feel pretty bad. As far as I’m
concerned it’s going back where I found it, and that’s that!’

Candida had never liked him so well. She said quickly and warmly,

‘Yes, yes, of course—you’re right. But, Derek, you don’t mean—you
don’t think the treasure is still somewhere about?’

‘Why shouldn’t it be? Part of it anyhow.’

‘Well, I don’t know. There aren’t such a lot of things of that sort of
date knocking about. They get sold, or broken up, or—’

‘Stolen?’

Candida said soberly,

‘A lot of things can happen in three hundred years without putting any
of them on to Alan Thompson.’

He rummaged among the papers, pulled one out, and gave it to Candida. It
appeared to be an inventory of some kind—linen, curtains, silver of the
homelier kind. Nothing like the splendours of the list which Alan had
copied—just the ordinary furnishings of a well-to-do household, all set
down on old discoloured paper in old discoloured writing. Candida stared
at it, wondering why it had been given to her.

‘Well?’

He said,

‘Turn it round and look at the bottom of the left-hand corner.’

There was some writing here, running crossways to the short lines of the
inventory, the hand a different one, thin and spidery. There were four
lines, not very easy to read, but she made them out:

                         ‘Touch not nor try,
                         Sell not nor buy,
                         Give not nor take,
                         For dear life’s sake.’

Underneath again there were two words that had been scratched out, the
first lightly, but the second with many crossing strokes.

Derek said, ‘Got it?’

She read the four lines aloud in a slow bewildered voice.

‘What does it mean?’

‘I think it means the Treasure. The first of those two scratched-out
words is a “the”. That’s easy. The second can’t be read—whoever did the
scratching made a much better job of it. But it’s the right length to be
“Treasure”, and that is what I think it is.’

‘But, Derek, what does it mean?’

He gave an uneasy laugh.

‘Well, it might mean that it wasn’t a good plan to meddle with the
Treasure. Someone, I suppose Alan Thompson, has made a pencil note at
the end of this paper, with a date in the eighteenth century and a query
after it. Seventeen-forty, I think it is. If that’s right, it could mean
that the Treasure was still going strong round about that date, and that
there was some sort of family belief that it wasn’t lucky to meddle with
it. It seems to me that Anna might have had the same idea.’

The door opened. Joseph stood on the threshold. He said with his usual
politeness,

‘You are being asked for on the telephone, sir.’




                            Chapter Thirteen


It was after dinner the same evening that Miss Olivia began to talk
about the Benevent Treasure. Derek was at the piano playing scraps and
snatches of whatever came into his head. Miss Cara had said good night
and drifted aimlessly down the long room to the door. Her feet made no
sound on the carpet, the door no sound as it opened and closed again.
She left a vaguely unhappy feeling behind her. The thought that came to
Candida was that it was the first time she had seen her take the lead in
even such a small thing as going to bed. On every evening until now it
had been Miss Olivia who gathered up the embroidery or the knitting upon
which she was employed and remarked upon the time. But tonight, and
before it was quite ten o’clock, Miss Cara had got up, murmured an
uncertain good night, and gone away.

After a short silence Miss Olivia said,

‘Cara is not as strong as I am. She has always required a good deal of
care. Certain subjects agitate her and are best avoided. I should really
have cautioned you on this matter before, but I thought I would wait
until we knew you better. One cannot immediately confide in someone who
has been brought up as a stranger to the family.’

This was rather daunting. Candida wondered what was coming next. Miss
Olivia continued.

‘You will remember that I mentioned the Benevent Treasure on your first
evening here. It would not have been possible to give you even the
slightest sketch of the family history without touching on it, however
lightly.’

Derek was playing the refrain of ‘Love’s Old Sweet Song’. There was a
pile of these sugary old-fashioned ballads on the music-stand. He made
fun of them to Candida, and played them as to the manner born. Miss Cara
loved them, and Candida suspected that Derek had a soft corner for them
himself. He might jest about them, but there was a lingering fondness in
his touch. It came to her that the Aunts had had to make do with what
they could get in the way of sentiment, and that it didn’t amount to
very much.

Miss Olivia said in her clear, precise voice,

‘I should have spoken to you before, but no opportunity presented
itself. My sister and I are so seldom apart, and the matter did not
appear to be pressing. But when Joseph mentioned that he had found you
and Derek at work on the family papers I thought it might be as well to
touch on the subject. I do not know whether Derek has said anything or
not, but we find it better not to discuss the Benevent Treasure in front
of Cara. There are some superstitious tales about it, and it is apt to
make her nervous.’

Miss Olivia was sitting stiffly upright in a Sheraton chair whose
brocaded seat was quite hidden by the spread of her black taffeta skirt.
She wore a handsome spray of diamond flowers to fasten the fine lace
ruffle at her neck. Half a dozen pearl and diamond rings were crowded on
to the thin bent fingers which held a tambour frame and an
embroidery-needle. The embroidery on the frame was jewel-bright. Candida
suspected it of being too fine for comfort. Sometimes half an hour would
go by without a stitch being taken. One was taken now as Candida said,

‘What tales, Aunt Olivia?’

A second stitch was set beside the first.

‘There are stories of the kind in most old families. It was said that
the Treasure brought bad luck with it, but that of course was foolish.
Ugo did not have bad luck at all. On the contrary. He used part of the
Treasure to establish himself in this country. There were some
exceedingly valuable jewels. Some of them were sold to build on to this
house and to buy the land that went with it. We have no means of knowing
how much was disposed of, but it was necessary for your ancestor to make
a good appearance and to keep up his rank. He married an heiress, as I
think I told you. Her name was Anne Coghill, and she brought him a
considerable fortune. There was therefore no need to have further
recourse to the Treasure. When from time to time, however, it became
necessary to draw upon it, there grew up this idea that some misfortune
would follow. James Benevent was known to have withdrawn some of the
jewels in 1740. Shortly afterwards he was killed by a fall from his
horse, which took fright and threw him at his own front door. He lived
long enough to charge his son to have nothing to do with the Treasure,
but about fifty years later his grandson, Guy Benevent, having lost
heavily at cards, was tempted to sell part of the Treasure to recoup
himself. He was set upon by a footpad and received an injury to his head
from which he died. He was found quite close to the house and carried
in, but he never recovered consciousness.’

‘How did they know that it was a footpad?’

‘There may have been a servant with him—I cannot say. I can only tell
you the tale as it was told to me.’

‘If it was a footpad, I don’t see how it could have anything to do with
the Treasure.’

‘You do not believe in things being lucky or unlucky? You modern young
people attach no importance to things of that sort?’

‘I don’t know—I shouldn’t like to have anything that had been stolen.’

Miss Olivia began to fold up her work.

‘I do not care to hear reflections upon our ancestor,’ she said coldly.
‘I believe I informed you that he left Italy for political reasons. I
imagine that he had every right to take with him his share of the
patrimony which would have been his had he remained. I think I will now
say good night.’

Derek left the piano to open the door for her. When she had gone out he
shut it again and came back to the fire with a mischievous expression on
his face.

‘Feeling snubbed, darling?’

‘You were listening?’

‘Oh, passionately! She prides herself on her articulation, and you may
have noticed that I was playing in a whisper. I’m just wondering why you
were treated to those old wives’ tales.’

‘So am I.’

He laughed.

‘Well, I got the impression that she was a bit disappointed, but I don’t
know why. She may have wanted to scare you off the horrid unlucky stuff,
or she may have wanted to get you all worked up and interested in it.’

‘Why should she want to scare me off?’

‘She might want to protect you, or she might want to stop you laying
sacrilegious hands on the Treasure.’

‘Then why should she want to get me interested?’

‘More bits and pieces from Anna! She is quite firm about the Treasure
being unlucky, but she says of course if someone who wasn’t a Benevent
handled it, the curse mightn’t act, or it wouldn’t matter so much if it
did! Old Mr. Benevent went a bit childish before he died. He must have
been about a hundred. Anna said he talked quite a lot about the
Treasure. He told her the thing to do was to get someone who didn’t
matter to do the job for you. He said he wouldn’t handle it himself and
no Benevent ought to, but it could be done by a stranger.’

Candida had a horrid cold feeling.

‘What did he mean?’

‘I don’t know. She got rather carried away talking, and when I began to
ask questions she was scared and dried up. I had to promise I wouldn’t
let anyone know that she had talked.’

‘Derek—you’ve just told me!’

He waved that away.

‘Darling, what she meant was the Aunts! She wouldn’t give a damn whether
you knew or not as long as you didn’t tell them. Anyhow it’s all
rubbish, only—Look here, Candida, you keep out of it! Don’t get
interested in it, don’t get scared about it! If she offers to show it to
you, say you’d rather not!’

‘Why?’

‘I can’t tell you, because I don’t know. I’ve just got a very strong
feeling that it’s better left alone. Part of the feeling is that perhaps
Alan Thompson didn’t leave it alone, and that it would have been better
for him if he had. Speaking for myself, I wouldn’t go within a mile of
the stuff for a million—and I can’t put it stronger than that!’

Candida said,

‘Where is it?’

She got one of his most charming smiles.

‘Darling, I don’t know, and I don’t want to.’




                            Chapter Fourteen


When Candida reached her room she was surprised to find Nellie there. It
was no more than half past ten, but that was late for her to be turning
down the bed and putting in a hot water-bottle, and when she looked
round it was plain to see that she had been crying. Candida shut the
door and came towards her.

‘Why, Nellie, is anything the matter?’

Tears started again from between the reddened lips. The girl said
angrily,

‘No, there isn’t, nor yet there isn’t going to be! I’m clearing out!’

‘Clearing out?’

Nellie stamped her foot.

‘Yes, I am, and nobody’s going to persuade me different! The money is
good, and I won’t say it isn’t, but what’s the good of that if you’ve
been scared out of your life or had something happen to you that you’re
never going to forget?’

Candida said in a half-hearted voice,

‘Nellie, what do you mean?’

‘I mean I’m catching the 9.25 back to London in the morning, and I don’t
care what Aunt Anna says, or whether she ever speaks to me again or
not!’

Candida came a step nearer.

‘Has anything happened?’

‘I’m not talking about it!’

‘But, Nellie—’

‘What you don’t say nobody can’t bring up against you, and that’s flat!
I’m not talking and I’m not staying! But I’ll go as far as this—what’s
sauce for one of us is just as well sauce for the other!’

Candida said slowly, ‘What—do—you—mean?’

Nellie tapped with her foot.

‘Can’t you take a hint?’ Her voice had remained angry. ‘Here, let me
by!’

Candida went back against the door and stood there.

‘Not just yet,’ she said. ‘There isn’t any hurry, and I think you have
said too much not to say a little more.’

The girl was shaking.

‘Let me by!’

‘In a minute. Look here, Nellie, don’t be silly. Come and sit down and
tell me what has upset you. You say you are getting out, and you’ve as
good as told me that I’d better get out too. You can’t say things like
that and leave them floating in the air.’

Nellie tossed her head.

‘Well then, I can, and what’s more I’m going to! Least said, soonest
mended!’

Candida was silent for a minute. Then she said,

‘Someone has upset you. Who was it? Was it Derek?’

Nellie laughed.

‘Go on! You don’t suppose I couldn’t look after myself with his kind!
Anyhow he’s all right is Mr. Derek. I mean he might want to lark about a
bit, but—he’s all right. ‘Smatter of fact he’s got a girl in
Retley—been going with her steady for quite a long time. Only don’t you
give him away—there wouldn’t half be a row if it came out. He’s told me
all about her. Showed me her photo, too. Not pretty, you know, but ever
so nice. And you could tell he was fond of her, the way he looked. A
girl can always tell.’

The atmosphere had changed. They were two girls talking about a love
affair. Candida laughed and said,

‘Oh, I won’t give him away.’ And then, ‘So it wasn’t Derek who upset
you. Was it Anna?’

Nellie said in a scornful voice,

‘She fusses, and I won’t say I haven’t cheeked her, but that’s all in
the family. Up in the air one minute and all right again the
next—that’s Aunt Anna. Always been like that, she has. I wouldn’t take
any notice of Aunt Anna.’

‘Is it Joseph then—your uncle?’

Nellie blazed.

‘He’s no uncle of mine, thank God! What Aunt Anna wanted to marry him
for, I can’t think! Twenty years younger than her, and all he thinks
about is money! Disgusting I call it! And how Aunt Anna could!’

Candida had a fleeting thought that thumbed its nose and suggested with
a giggle that Anna’s savings must be considerable and her family would
naturally prefer them to come their way. It was the kind of guttersnipe
thought which you repress and dismiss. But Nellie appeared to have
caught a glimpse of it, for she said on a defiant note,

‘And you needn’t think we’d have minded if it had been what you could
call suitable, and not someone that was young enough to be her son and
just to please the Miss Benevents. We all know she’s fond of them—do
anything for Miss Cara she would. But you’re not called on to marry a
chap that’s after your money just because it suits the people you work
for!’

Candida laughed.

‘I suppose not, but I expect it’s been done before now. Well, you don’t
like Joseph. Is that why you are going?’

‘It’s reason enough!’

‘But is it _the_ reason?’

Nellie looked her straight in the face and said, ‘No!’

‘Then—’

Nellie flushed.

‘Why can’t you leave it alone? I don’t like it here, and I’m clearing
out! And if you’ve got any sense you’ll clear out too! Let me go!’

Candida shook her head.

All at once Nellie Brown’s resistance broke. She had a temper and it got
away with her. She had always hated the place, and now it scared her. It
was going to do her quite a lot of good to get some of these feelings
off her chest. Her eyes sparkled as she said,

‘All right then, here it is—and don’t blame me if you don’t like it!’
She laughed angrily. ‘How would you like to wake up in the night and
hear someone in your room?’

‘Nellie!’

‘Oh, it wasn’t Joseph or Mr. Derek—I’d have known what to do about
that! It was something that went crying in the dark, and by the time I’d
got a light on it was gone. So I started locking my door, but last night
it came again. There was a cold hand that touched my face—it wasn’t
half horrible. I wasn’t properly awake for a minute, and by the time I
was, there was the crying thing half across the room. My curtains were
back, but all I could see was something white, and it walked right into
the wall and wasn’t there any more. Well, I put on the light, and the
door was locked all right the way I’d left it. It was past two o’clock,
and I kept my light on till the morning, and every minute of the time I
was making up my mind I wouldn’t stay another day. Only when I was up
and dressed and the sun was shining it seemed stupid to go away without
my money. There’ll be a month owing me tomorrow, and I thought I’d get
it first.’ She stopped abruptly and said with a complete change of voice
and manner, ‘Well, I must go.’

Candida said,

‘Don’t you—mind?’

Nellie laughed with an effect of bravado.

‘Mind? What about?’ Then, as Candida only looked at her, she went into a
rush of words, ‘If you’re thinking about my sleeping in that room again,
I’m not doing it, and that’s flat! I told Aunt Anna I wouldn’t, and I
won’t! I’m going in with her, and she’ll be wondering what’s keeping
me!’

‘But—Joseph—’

Nellie tossed her head.

‘She’s got her own room and always has had! And there’s a bolt on the
door, what’s more! I’ll be all right in with Aunt Anna!’




                            Chapter Fifteen


Candida went to bed, but it was some time before she put out her light.
When she thought of putting it out there was an echo of what Nellie had
said about the cold hand that had touched her face and the thing that
went crying in the dark. It was frightfully stupid of course, but she
had a horrid feeling that if she told her hand to go out and turn off
the bedside light there would be some pretty dogged opposition. She went
barefoot to the bookshelves which filled the whole of the recess between
the fireplace and the window. If she were to read for a little, the
pictures in her mind would change and she would be able to sleep.

She took down a book of verse and turned the pages. A couple of lines
started to her eye:

                   ‘Alone and warming his five wits,
                   The white owl in the belfry sits.’

That brought up a picture of cold moonlight and a frosted world. She
remembered:

               ‘The owl for all his feathers was a-cold.’

Not just what she wanted at the moment. She turned the leaves, and saw
four lines at the bottom of a page:

                ‘I saw their starved lips in the gloom,
                With horrid warning gapéd wide;
                And I awoke, and found me here
                On the cold hill-side.’

She clapped the book to and put it back upon the shelf. If all that
Tennyson and Keats had got to offer were things about cold owls and
horrid warnings, to say nothing of starved lips in the gloom, then they
were definitely off.

She found a book of short stories and chanced upon one about a coral
island. With a hot water-bottle at her feet and the glow of a
reading-lamp at her left shoulder, it was possible to be transported to
the tropics and to warm the imagination at a description of blue water,
rainbow fish, and exotic blooms. After two or three stories all set
amongst surroundings where the temperature never fell below eighty
degrees she actually found the bottle too much and pushed it away. A
little later on she was so nearly asleep that the book slipped from her
hand. The sound that it made as it slid to the floor roused her just
enough to make her reach out and turn off the light. She passed at once
into one of those indeterminate dreams of which no real impression
remains.

A long time afterwards she came back to the place where the dreams that
come are remembered. She was in the midst of one, and there was no
comfort in it. A wide moor and a blowing wind and the hour before the
dawn. There were voices in the wind, but what they said went by. Only if
she didn’t know what they were saying, how did she know that it was
something that she must not, _must_ not hear? In her dream she began to
run so as to get away from the wind, but she tripped and fell, and the
wind went over her and was gone.

It hadn’t been dark in the dream—just grey, and the clouds racing. But
now when she opened her eyes it was very dark indeed. She was awake and
in bed in her own room, and the room was full of darkness. She lay on
her back, with the head of the bed against the wall, the door to the
right, the windows to the left, and in the opposite wall the bulging
chimney-breast and the recess which held the books. She knew where all
these things were, but as far as seeing them they might just as well not
have been there, except that the shape of the windows showed against the
denser blackness of the wall. Outside and away from the hill the
darkness would not be absolute. There would be at the very least the
remembrance and the promise of light. But it couldn’t get into the
house. It couldn’t get into the room, because the darkness filled it to
the very brim.

Candida lay there in the dark and was afraid. Moments went by, each one
more dragging than the last, and as they dragged, the fear weighed on
her and held her down. She had only to put out her hand to the switch of
the reading-lamp and turn it on and a golden light would fill the place.
Darkness had no power against light. She had only to put out her hand.
But she couldn’t move it from where it was clenched upon the other, hard
up against the slow beating of her heart.

And then all of a sudden there was a sound and there was light.

The sound was the faintest in the world. Something moved. She could get
no nearer to it than that. The sound came first, and afterwards the
light—a thin white streak like a silver wire stretched upon the
darkness of the recess.

Rows of black books in the shelves which she could not see and a line of
light dividing them. Between one heart-beat and the next it came, and
was gone. She heard the sound again, and this time she knew it for what
it was—the bookshelves masked a door and someone was opening it. And
quite suddenly the terror that froze her gave way to the instinct to
shield her eyes from the searching light, to cover herself with the
semblance of sleep. She turned with one quick movement and lay upon her
side with her face turned into the pillow and the bedclothes caught up
high about her head.

She was just in time, because the light was in the room. It was the
light of a torch. She could see it between her lashes—just the glint of
it where the bedclothes fell away and the pillow was pressed down. She
could tell that it was a torch by the way it slid and swung. Someone had
come through the wall in the recess. Someone was crossing the floor.
Someone went out of the door and closed it softly.

Candida was not frightened any more, she was angry. There was someone
who was playing tricks—on her, on Nellie. Nellie’s room was in the old
part of the house too. Secret passages were useful in the seventeenth
century. People were persecuted for their religion. There were wars and
rumours of wars, conspiracies and plots. A turn of the wheel and you
were up, and another turn and you were down. It would be useful to have
somewhere to hide yourself or—your treasure. She wondered whether the
Benevent Treasure was guarded by one of those secret doors. And she
wondered who it was who had come soft-foot through the wall tonight.
Nellie’s visitor could have been no one more frightening than poor Miss
Cara, wandering in the dark of a dream, looking perhaps for the boy of
whom she had been so dearly fond. But she didn’t think it was Miss Cara
tonight, or if it was, then she wasn’t walking in her sleep. Mary
Coppinger had walked in her sleep at school, but she didn’t need a torch
to light her way. Candida had followed her once, and she had gone
downstairs in the dark and into one of the classrooms, walking
confidently and without hesitation where she herself had had to grope
her way. By the time she caught Mary up there was just enough light from
the row of windows to make out that she was sitting at her desk. She had
the lid open, and she took out a book, and shut down the lid, and went
back by the way that she had come. She didn’t remember anything about it
in the morning. The book was under her pillow. It was a French grammar,
and it turned out that she was worrying about an exam she was taking.
Poor Aunt Cara was worried about something much worse than an exam.

But whatever had come through this room with a torch wasn’t walking in
its sleep. It was when she was confronted with the word _her_ in her own
mind and found she couldn’t be sure it was the right one that she
snatched at the non-committal _it_. Because she couldn’t be sure, she
really couldn’t be sure, that it was a woman who had come out of the
wall and gone away by the door. It could have been a man. Whichever it
was had gone soft-foot and silent.

It could have been Joseph. When had she ever heard him come or go? He
walked like a cat—an admirable thing in a butler, but not if he used it
to prowl in secret passages and come drifting through one’s bedroom at
dead of night. It was all in her mind in a flash, and in another she was
out of bed and the door open under her hand. There was no light in the
passage and no movement, but at the right-hand corner there was, not a
glow, but some thinning of the darkness which made the corner visible.

On an angry impulse she ran barefoot down the passage. It turned
left-handed and she looked round the turn. There was a faint glow which
showed the next bend, and then quite suddenly it was gone. She went
towards the place where it had been, her hands stretched out, her foot
feeling before her. Even after a fortnight in the house its twists and
turns could still play her a trick. There were steps that went up and
steps that went down. There were cupboards that were nearly as large as
rooms, and rooms that were as small as cupboards. It was easy enough to
lose yourself at Underhill. And there were never any lights in the
passages at night. One of Miss Olivia’s little economies.

The hand that was feeling before her came up against something which
rose like a cliff. It barred her way, but it wasn’t a wall. Her fingers
touched wood, the surface deeply carved. At once she knew where she was.
There was a big carved press at the top of the stairway which led from
the hall. It was old and black, and most inconveniently placed. The
landing was narrow, and the press jutted out and cramped what space
there was. There was a choice of three passages here, the one by which
she had come, one that went on to the servants’ wing, and a wider one
which led to Miss Olivia’s room and Miss Cara’s—twin rooms side by side
with a bathroom in between. If it was Joseph whom she had been
following, he must be well away—the whole wing was cut off by a
connecting door. She skirted the press and looked towards it. There was
neither light nor movement. Useless to go any farther. The anger had
gone out of her. She went a little way in the direction of the Miss
Benevents’ rooms. The passage lay dark before her—dark and still. And
all at once it came over her that her chance was gone, and here she was
in her nightgown a long way from where she had any business to be. She
had a horrifying picture of Miss Olivia opening her door and switching
on the light. Just what she would say or do was one of those things that
don’t bear thinking about. And she wasn’t going to think about it,
because it wasn’t going to happen.

She turned, keeping wide of the stairs. Her feet were cold on the carpet
and a shiver went down her back. When she had passed another corner she
felt for a switch and put on the light. She would have to come back and
turn it off, but it would show her the way to her room, and once that
was lighted she couldn’t lose herself.

When it was all done and she had locked her door, she pushed a chair
against the bookshelves in the recess and got back into bed. It was
twenty past three, and the hot water-bottle was still faintly warm. As
she looked across at the chair she remembered the proverb about locking
the stable door after the steed is stolen. She called in another proverb
to rout it—‘Better late than never.’




                            Chapter Sixteen


Stephen was kept very busy for the next two days. He had an urgent
summons from Colonel Gatling couched in a somewhat military style.
Having made up his mind to the demolition of all except the original
seventeenth-century manor house, he was insistent to know how soon the
work could be begun, how long it would take, and what it would cost, and
whether he would have to have ‘any of those damned permits’. On the top
of that there was a telephone call from his uncle to say would he ring
up the Castle and make an appointment with Lord Retborough. Following
out these instructions, he found himself committed to a long and
confidential interview with a worried old man.

‘The fact is, Eversley, no one—_no one_ is going to be able to keep up
this sort of place for another generation. We’ve been here a long time
and we’ve tried to do our best by the place, but the situation has
become impossible. The upkeep of the Castle alone’—he lifted a weary
hand and let it fall again—‘it just can’t be done. Both my sons were
killed in the war, but there’s a grandson to come after me, and I don’t
want to hang a millstone round his neck. Now what I had in mind was
this. I’ve had a tentative offer for the Castle—one of these new
Colleges. I should have thought it highly unsuitable myself, but my
grandfather modernised the plumbing, if you can call Victorian plumbing
modern, and my father put in electric light, so I suppose it might be
worse. Jonathan will join me in breaking the entail. He is prepared to
go in for farming in a big way and on the latest scientific lines. He is
in his last year at an agricultural college and as keen as mustard. What
I want you to do is to get out plans for the sort of house one can live
in and run without landing in the bankruptcy court. We’ve picked the
site, and I’d like you to come over and look at it.’

With the two other small jobs which he had on his hands, Stephen had
plenty to occupy him. He was full of enthusiasm when he rang his uncle
up that evening. Yet he had hardly cradled the receiver before he was
aware that the dead weight upon his mind had not really lifted. He had
been able to ignore it in the interest of his work, but with the first
movement of relaxation the old burden was back again—the heaviest and
least bearable burden in the world, the fear which will not come out
into the open to be proved or disproved, accepted or destroyed.

His room at the Castle Inn had a comfortable chair and, specially
imported for his benefit, a good-sized table at which he could work, but
neither the chair nor the table attracted him now. He got to his feet,
picked up a book and threw it down again, walked to the window, looked
out upon the market place, and watched the lights go by. Shocking for
one’s tyres these old cobbles, and as noisy as a riveting yard.

The telephone rang in the room behind him, and he turned with a
quickened pulse. There was no reason on earth why Candida should ring
him up, and probably every reason why she should not. She had been angry
when they parted, and they had made no plan to meet again. He had a
sense of immeasurable loss as it came to him that he would pay forfeit
with every treasure of his heart if he never saw her again. He lifted
the receiver, and was aware of a woman’s voice that was not Candida’s.
His Cousin Louisa said,

‘Oh, is that you? I mean, is it Mr. Eversley?’

‘It is.’

‘Oh, my dear boy—how nice to hear your voice! Ringing up an hotel is
always so tiresome, don’t you think? You can never be sure that you have
really got the person you want!’

‘And did you want me, or am I just another wrong number?’

She had one of those rather high, sweet voices. It sounded quite shocked
as she said,

‘Oh, _no_. It was you whom I wanted—and most particularly. I was afraid
that you might be out. You see, Mrs. Mayhew is having one of her musical
evenings at the Deanery tomorrow. They are really very agreeable, and it
is such a beautiful old house. She had asked me to bring Maud Silver,
and this afternoon she rang up and said she heard I had a young cousin
staying with me, and why had I not let her know, because she would be
glad if you could find time to come too.’

‘But Cousin Louisa—’

‘My dear boy, not a word! Of course I explained that you were not really
staying with me, but she was most kind, and she hoped I would bring you
all the same. Lord Retborough will be there. He plays the violin. Not in
public of course, but it makes him take an interest. And it seems he has
spoken of you in very high terms.’

Stephen said,

‘Very nice of him—but you know, I am most awfully busy.’

Louisa dropped to a confidential note.

‘Too busy to meet some friends? The Miss Benevents will be there, and I
am so much looking forward to meeting Candida Sayle. I really was very
fond of her grandmother.’

What good was it going to do him to sit in a packed room, or even quite
possibly to stand, and look at Candida across a sea of strangers whilst
the amateur talent of Retley displayed itself? Candida on the other side
of a gulf, and Miss Blank not quite hitting a high note or Mr. Dash
scooping lugubriously upon the cello! None that he could see, but he
knew that he would be fool enough to chance it. He had, in fact, arrived
at the point where he could no longer keep away from her. If she was
still angry, he had to know it and rekindle his own anger at the glow.
At the first moment of their meeting, at the briefest encounter of their
eyes, he would know what it had become imperative for him to know. He
said,

‘Well, it’s very kind of you, Cousin Louisa—and of Mrs. Mayhew.’

When it came to the point, the Deanery was not so crowded as Stephen had
feared. Mrs. Mayhew was a woman of taste and discretion whose aim in
entertaining was to give pleasure to her friends. She did not,
therefore, pack them like sardines or oblige them to shout themselves
hoarse in order to be heard above the competing voices of a crowd. He
found her an agreeable woman with an air of breeding and competence.

‘Lord Retborough has told me about you, Mr. Eversley. You cannot think
how much he is looking forward to the house which he tells me you are to
design for him. Old places may be interesting, but one cannot pretend
that they are easy to run.’

He passed on, Louisa Arnold introducing him here and there, until she
and Miss Silver became absorbed into one of the groups already provided
with seats. There would be no music until everyone was settled and the
first flow of conversation had had its way. Stephen was listening to a
tall, thin old man who was one of the Canons, and who might have been
interesting enough if it had been possible to hear what he said. He
appeared to be imparting architectural information about the Cathedral,
but as a naturally soft manner of speech was impeded by the kind of
dentures which produce a lisp, all that was possible was to maintain an
attentive attitude and be on the alert for a chance to get away.

It came at the moment when the Miss Benevents were shaking hands with
Mrs. Mayhew and the Dean and introducing their grand-niece. For once
they were not dressed alike. Miss Olivia was in violet brocade with a
stole of Brussels point. A necklace of very large amethysts came up
tight about her throat. The matching bracelets clasped her wrists. A
massive corsage ornament reposed upon her chest. Stephen was reminded of
the pictures in a book of old French fairy tales, but he couldn’t be
sure whether she was the Beneficent Godmother or the Wicked Fairy. He
thought it was the Godmother, because now he came to consider it the
Wicked Fairy had a retinue of toads and bats. Miss Cara, behind her, was
small and shrunken in black velvet and a scarf of heavy Spanish lace.
She wore one of those early Victorian necklaces of seed pearls fashioned
into little flat roses.

Candida was in white. It was a new dress, a present from the Aunts.
Stephen wasn’t to know that. He only saw that she was beautiful, and
that she looked at him and smiled. There was a bright, pure colour in
her cheeks and her hair shone under the lights. All the drag and strain
of their quarrel was gone. She carried beauty with her. The look between
them was a long one, but he would have to wait before he could speak to
her. Miss Olivia was making a procession of their advance, Cara a little
behind her on the left, Candida on the right, and Derek bringing up the
rear. There were gracious bows and an occasional pause for the
appropriate courtesies—‘How nice to see you, Lady Caradoc! May I
introduce our great-niece, Candida Sayle? . . . Canon Verschoyle, it is
far too long since we met! This is our great-niece.’ And so forth and so
on.

Candida was smiled upon by the Bishop, a large old man with a kindly
face and a comfortable figure, and by the Bishop’s wife, who had
seventeen grand-children and an air of placid indulgence. Everyone to
whom she was introduced was kind, and there were one or two who
remembered Candida Benevent and the stir it had made when she married
John Sayle. Candida had been to a small dance or two, but never before
to a large formal party in a beautiful old house like this. And she had
a new dress for it. The Aunts had really been noble about the dress.
They had escorted her in state to a small exclusive shop, where Miss
Olivia handed her over to Mme. Laurier—‘who will know just what you
ought to wear’. A rather intimidating opening, but fully justified by
the result. The white dress was produced, tried on, and acclaimed, Miss
Olivia’s ‘Very suitable’ being followed by Aunt Cara’s ‘Oh, my dear—how
pretty!’ Candida had no words. If she had tried for any, they would have
failed her. The dress did everything that a dress can do. She flushed
and turned a swimming look of gratitude upon the Aunts, only to be
shocked into dismay at the sound of the price.

The Miss Benevents did not turn a hair. They nodded, and Miss Olivia
said,

‘It will do very nicely. You will put it down to my account, madame.’

It was not until the last of the guests had arrived that Stephen and
Candida met. The first item on the programme was about to begin. The
Miss Benevents were already seated. Just behind them Louisa Arnold
leaned forward and introduced ‘My cousin, Maud Silver.’ There was a
moment when everyone’s attention was taken up, and in that moment
Stephen slipped a hand inside Candida’s arm and drew her away. It really
was very skilfully done. He had two chairs marked down, set back against
one of the recessed windows and well away behind the Aunts and Cousin
Louisa. They reached them just in time and with the sense of adventure
achieved. And then a tall young cleric with a fine carrying voice was
announcing that Mr. and Mrs. Hayward and Miss Storey would play Mr.
Hayward’s own trio in A major. Everyone clapped politely. All those
passionately addicted to chamber music settled down to enjoyment, while
those who did not care for it resigned themselves to some twenty minutes
of boredom.

Mr. Hayward’s trio was not unknown. A good deal to his own surprise,
Stephen found it to his taste. There was vigour and melody, there was a
triumphing note. It went well with his mood. The three executants played
remarkably well. He had felt obliged to drop his hand from Candida’s
arm, but their chairs were so close together that her shoulders touched
his sleeve. It was tantalising, but they were together and she wasn’t
angry any more. They sat in silence side by side and the music filled
the room. There was an enthusiastic burst of clapping at the end.

Stephen said, ‘Candida,’ and she turned her head and looked at him. The
people in front of them were standing up. There was, for the moment, a
small private place where they were alone. He touched her hand and said,

‘You’ve finished being angry?’

‘Yes.’

His voice came low and abrupt.

‘You mustn’t do it again. It does things to me.’

‘What sort of things?’

‘Damnable.’

‘Why?’

‘You know why.’

‘How can I—if you don’t tell me?’

‘I have told you. It does things. Candida, you know—don’t you—don’t
you?’

She looked away. Her lips trembled into a smile.

‘You’ll have to say it, Stephen.’

The people in front of them were moving—their moment was almost gone.
He said in an angry whisper,

‘I can’t—not here. Candida, you know I love you horribly!’

‘How can I know—when you don’t tell me?’

He could hardly catch the words. The hand he was touching shook.

‘Did you want me to tell you?’

‘Of course.’

Their privacy was gone. There would be a quarter of an hour’s interval.
People were walking about, talking to their friends. He pulled her to
her feet and held aside the curtain from the recess behind them.

‘Come and look at the Cathedral by moonlight. It ought to be worth
seeing.’

And all in a moment they were there alone together, the curtain dropped
and all the world shut out. Neither the moon nor the Cathedral received
any attention. Both had been deemed worthy of a good deal of it in the
past, but this was not their hour. The moon shone coldly down upon the
stone, and the cold stone took the light in all the beauty that men’s
hands had given it, but Stephen and Candida had no eyes for them.

Miss Louisa Arnold and Miss Silver had kept their seats, and so had the
Miss Benevents. Louisa desired nothing better than an opportunity of
conversing with her old friends. As soon as it was politely possible she
stopped trying to applaud and leaned forward to touch Miss Cara’s arm.

‘My dear Cara! How long is it since I have seen you? Have you been ill?’

Cara Benevent turned round with a rather too hurried, ‘Oh, no, Louisa—I
am very well.’

‘You don’t look it,’ said Miss Arnold without any tact.

She was, in fact, a good deal startled. No one would have taken Miss
Cara for the younger sister now. She had always been small and slight,
but she looked as if she had shrunk. The bones of the face showed
through the sallow skin. And all that unrelieved black! Neither black
velvet nor black lace had been considered mourning in the days when such
observances were more strictly regulated, but the plain, solemn folds of
the gown and all that heavy Spanish lace presented quite a funerary
appearance.

She began to talk about Candida.

‘How pretty she is—really quite charming! And how nice for you and
Olivia! Young people do make such a difference in the house, do they
not?’

It was not possible for Miss Cara to lose colour. A tremor went over
her. Louisa Arnold became aware that she had said the wrong thing. She
had for the moment forgotten about Alan Thompson. She hurried on, her
voice a little higher and more flute-like than usual.

‘It has been such a pleasure for me to have the opportunity of seeing
something of my young cousin, Stephen Eversley. I believe you have met
him.’

Miss Cara became noticeably embarrassed.

‘Oh, yes—yes—’

‘His mother was the daughter of Papa’s first cousin, the Bishop of
Branchester. Such an eloquent preacher, and an authority on the Early
Fathers. I believe he was considered for the Archbishopric. Papa used
often to talk about it. He married a daughter of Lord Danesborough, a
very quiet, religious kind of person and extremely dowdy in her dress.
But the daughter who was Stephen’s mother was by way of being a beauty.
Of course the Bishop was a very good-looking man—really quite a
commanding presence.’

Miss Silver pursued an equable conversation with Miss Olivia Benevent.
She was aware that she was being condescended to as an unknown and
probably distant relative of Louisa’s. She was, however, perfectly able
to sustain her part in a tactful and dignified manner, choosing such
subjects as the beauty of the Cathedral and the remarkable number of old
and historic buildings in Retley and the neighbourhood.

‘Louisa tells me that you yourself own a very interesting old house.’

Miss Olivia did not disclaim the ownership.

‘It has been a long time in the family.’

‘That, of course, adds very much to the interest. There must be so many
associations.’

Miss Olivia was not displeased at being offered an opportunity of
talking about the Benevents. Miss Silver listened with the attention
which family history does not always command.

‘Then it was your ancestor who actually built the house? Louisa tells me
that it really does stand, as the name would suggest, under the hill.
Was the site chosen, do you know, in order to provide shelter from a
prevailing wind?’

Her interest was so unaffected that Miss Olivia found herself imparting
the fact that the site had actually been determined by the presence of
the small Tudor house in which Ugo di Benevento had resided prior to his
marriage with the daughter of a neighbouring landowner.

‘She was a considerable heiress, and it was of course desirable that a
more suitable residence should be provided. We have no means of knowing
what decided them to build on to the existing house, but that is what
they did. A good deal of it was not touched, and remains very much as it
was in the sixteenth century.’

It was at this point that the name of Stephen Eversley reached her. It
was pronounced by Louisa Arnold in a tone which Miss Olivia mentally
stigmatised as shrill, and it was followed by what she considered to be
an unwarrantable assumption.

‘You are giving him a commission to restore Underhill, are you not?’

Miss Olivia entered the conversation with an air of authority.

‘My dear Louisa, Underhill is not in need of being restored. If Mr.
Eversley gave you that impression he must have been under a grave
misapprehension. It is not, I believe, for a professional man to discuss
an employer’s business, and I am surprised that Mr. Eversley should have
done so. It was his uncle to whom we applied for an opinion as to
whether some structural repairs were necessary, but instead of coming
himself he sent his nephew, a young and inexperienced person in whose
judgment we cannot feel the same confidence. We have therefore informed
Mr. Stephen Eversley that we shall not require his services.’

There is no knowing what Louisa Arnold might have said in reply. Her
colour rose sharply. It was perhaps fortunate that Mrs. Warburton should
at that moment have evinced the intention of returning to her seat.
Since she was an extremely large person, this necessitated everyone else
in the row getting up and making room for her to pass. Louisa had
therefore to refrain from the no doubt well chosen words in which she
might have reminded Olivia of Stephen’s unexceptionable connections and
deprecated her use of the word employer.

All the places were filling up again. Stephen and Candida emerged from
the curtained recess and resumed their seats. To an attentive eye it
would have been obvious that they were not really there at all. They
walked in some Cloud-Cuckooland and listened to an older song than that
which a Minor Canon’s niece now warbled. There was a piano accompaniment
by a stout lady in puce and a violin obligato by the Minor
Canon—altogether a charming performance, and a voice as clear as
running water. But the other song was the sweeter.




                           Chapter Seventeen


Derek had penetrated to the farthest corner of the room and the one
least commanded by Miss Olivia’s eye. He seemed to have quite a number
of friends, and had been graciously received by Mrs. Mayhew, who was
wont to deplore the fact that he had never really cultivated his musical
talent—‘Such a charming touch.’

During the next interval he was found to be at Jenny Rainsford’s side,
and it was there that Miss Olivia discovered him. Her sight being
excellent, the distance did not prevent her being struck by something in
his manner. It was usual enough for him to turn that charming smile upon
all and sundry. He possessed an amiable nature and a strong desire to
please. He could have smiled upon fifty girls without causing her the
least uneasiness. It was because he did not smile at Jenny Rainsford
that she felt disturbed. Whoever the girl was, Derek was looking and
listening in a deeply serious way. And the girl was doing most of the
talking.

She regarded her with some attention. There was nothing particular about
her looks. She was not very tall, and she had nothing very special in
the way of features—brown curls, blue eyes, and rather a round-shaped
face. Her dress was one of those modern high-necked affairs, the top in
blue and black brocade coming down over the hips and worn with a tight
black satin skirt. Frowning, Miss Olivia accorded it a certain
distinction. She turned to ask Louisa Arnold who the girl might
be—‘Over there at the far end, talking to Derek.’

Louisa had plenty to impart.

‘Oh, that is Jenny Rainsford.’

‘And who is Jenny Rainsford?’

‘My dear Olivia, you must remember her father, poor Ambrose Rainsford.
Such an eloquent preacher. He was the Vicar of St. Luke’s. But first his
wife died leaving him with three little girls, and then he did. I don’t
think he had the heart to go on alone.’

‘I suppose the girls had to,’ said Miss Olivia drily.

‘Yes, indeed. Jenny was seventeen, and the other two were younger. There
wasn’t any money at all, and she went into Adamson’s garage. If you have
ever been there you must have seen her. She answers the telephone, and
takes the orders, and rings up about theatre tickets. Mr. Adamson says
she is most business-like and efficient and he doesn’t know what he
would do without her.’

Miss Olivia could not have disapproved more. What an occupation for a
girl whose father seemed to have been a gentleman! She said in her
curtest manner,

‘She looks a good deal more than seventeen to me.’

‘Oh, yes—she must be twenty-three or twenty-four now. The second girl
is married, and Linda who is the clever one has got a very good
secretarial post, so they are off Jenny’s hands.’

Miss Olivia broke off the conversation abruptly. She had no wish to hear
any more about Miss Jenny Rainsford. If she could have overheard what
was being said between her and Derek Burdon, the uneasiness which had
led her to drop the subject would have been very seriously increased.
Every word, every tone would have betrayed them. At the moment when she
attracted Miss Olivia’s notice Jenny was saying, ‘He only told me this
afternoon, but I think he has quite made up his mind—’

‘To retire?’

‘Well, that’s just it—he doesn’t want to go on working, but he doesn’t
really want to retire.’

‘Darling, he can’t have it both ways.’

‘Well, he thinks he can. He has got it all worked out. He would like to
take a partner who would run the show and pay him over say two-thirds of
the profits. He wouldn’t ask him to put in more than a thousand if he
felt it was someone he could get on with.’

‘Oh, he wants to go on working?’

‘Well, not to say working. He’d just like to come in and potter round
when he felt like it. You know, he hasn’t really been up to it for some
time, and the place has gone down, but it could soon be worked up again.
It would be a wonderful chance for someone—Derek, it would be a
wonderful chance for us.’

‘Us!’

‘Yes, darling. I didn’t mean to talk about it here, but I just can’t
keep it back.’

‘I couldn’t do it. I don’t know the first thing about running a
business.’

‘But you know about cars. Mr. Adamson always says you’re a first-class
mechanic—the Army did that for you. And you’re a very good driver. As
for the business side, I’ve got it all at my fingers’ end. There’s
nothing you wouldn’t learn easily enough as soon as you got going on
it.’

‘And where do we get the thousand pounds, darling?’

She looked up at him, her eyes very blue, very serious.

‘How much have you saved?’

‘Nothing like that.’

‘How much?’

‘I only started just over a year ago. I’m not much good at saving.’

‘I said, “How much?” ’

‘Well, about four hundred.’

She let the blue eyes smile.

‘But that’s very good. I didn’t think it would be as much as that.
You’ve done frightfully well.’

Jenny didn’t praise very often. He considered ruefully that she hadn’t
had much reason to praise him, but when she did, it was worth having. He
felt abashed and humble.

‘I’ve been able to put away most of my salary, and they gave me another
hundred for Christmas.’

Jenny stopped looking at him. She hated the salary for which he didn’t
work. She hated the cushioned life with the two old ladies. She hated
the things that people said, or that she thought they might be saying.
But she loved Derek. And she believed that Derek loved her. And if he
loved her, he had got to work for her and for their life together. The
salary and the cushions must be given up. They must live on their own
hard work. She said,

‘I think we can do it.’

‘Darling, four from ten leaves six.’

She nodded gravely.

‘Derek, I didn’t tell you that old Cousin Robert Rainsford left me a
thousand pounds. Peg had two hundred out of it when she married, and
Linda had two hundred and fifty to help her through college and get her
started.’

‘Then we are only fifty pounds short. Would Mr. Adamson wait for that?’

She said, ‘I’ve got fifty saved.’

He gazed at her with genuine pride.

‘Darling, you’re a wonder! If it wouldn’t send the balloon up like a
rocket, I’d kiss you!’

She let her eyes smile back into his for a moment, then was serious
again.

‘Mr. Adamson is going to live with his married daughter. They’ve got
that nice cottage a couple of miles out, and he loves the children, so
he won’t be wanting the house any more. There are six rooms and it would
suit us down to the ground. It was bombed in the war and rebuilt a
couple of years afterwards, so it’s all modern—built-in
cupboards—frightfully labour-saving. We can have the curtains and the
floor-coverings for a song. I chose them for him, so they’re all right.
And if we want any of the furniture, he’ll let us have it cheap. It
really is the most marvellous chance.’

It was. He knew that well enough. Opportunity doesn’t knock a second
time upon the door that will not open. He saw that quite clearly. And he
saw the things that would come in if he opened the door. There would be
a lot of hard work, and he hated work. There would be Jenny. He didn’t
mind messing about with cars. It was one thing to do it now and again
with a car of your own, and quite another to do it all day and every day
with strange crocks whose owners wanted them made over new whilst they
waited and got terse with you when you said it couldn’t be done.

Jenny’s steady blue eyes looked up at him. He had a feeling that they
looked right through him and could see just what he was thinking. He was
ashamed of some of the things. He didn’t want Jenny to be ashamed. He
said quite simply and humbly,

‘Do you think I could make a go of it?’

Jenny said, ‘Yes, darling.’




                            Chapter Eighteen


The Deanery party broke up in due course. Everyone told Mrs. Mayhew how
much they had enjoyed it, and in most cases they spoke no more than the
truth. Louisa Arnold, coming back into her own house with her cousin,
was really quite reluctant to admit that the evening was over and to say
good night. It was so very pleasant to linger by what was left of the
drawing-room fire and gossip for a while.

‘I am really quite charmed with Candida Sayle, but, my dear, did it not
strike you that Stephen was too?’

Miss Silver smiled. She could have expressed it a good deal more
strongly than that, but she refrained.

‘And, my dear Maud, did you notice Derek Burdon and that nice girl I was
telling you about, Jenny Rainsford? They seemed to be having quite a
serious talk, and I don’t think I have ever seen Derek look serious
before.’

‘He is very good-looking.’

‘Oh, quite charming. And he really plays delightfully. Not highbrow
enough for Mrs. Mayhew, but she can’t help liking him—no one can. He
has been dangling after Jenny for months. Olivia Benevent was watching
them to-night, and she didn’t look at all pleased—not at all. It’s a
shocking life for him, being spoiled and pampered at Underhill, but I
don’t see how he could get out of it now. I fancy Olivia would like to
get him married to Candida.’

Miss Silver was wearing the dark blue crêpe-de-chine. With the gold
locket which bore her parents initials in high relief and contained
locks of their hair, it supplied her modest needs. For the party at the
Deanery she had substituted light silk stockings for her usual wool,
changed during the summer months for lisle thread. With an almost new
pair of glacé shoes, she had felt very well equipped. She said a little
primly,

‘I do not fancy that Miss Olivia has any chance of seeing her wishes
fulfilled. Young people have a way of taking these matters into their
own hands.’

‘Oh, yes, _indeed_! But Olivia always has to have things her way. She
was like that as a child, and she could be very nasty indeed if she was
crossed.’

‘No one can expect to have his own way all the time.’

‘Well, Olivia does. And she bullies Cara shockingly—she always has.
Maud, didn’t you think she was looking terribly ill? I really felt quite
concerned.’

‘Miss Cara?’

Louisa Arnold nodded.

‘I thought she looked terrible. And all that black—so unbecoming.’ She
looked down complacently at her own full skirt of mauve and blue
brocade. ‘But of course it is just about three years since Alan Thompson
went off in that extraordinary way. Cara was always one for keeping
anniversaries. A _great_ mistake. I remember Papa saying so—“dragging
things back to be miserable over, when Heaven in its mercy has lightened
the load of grief!” ’

Miss Silver smiled benignly.

‘Your father was not only a sensible man, he was a Christian.’

Louisa Arnold’s eyes were suddenly moist.

‘Oh, _yes_!’

The Miss Benevents drove home in silence. Miss Cara was exhausted, but
in Miss Olivia’s case it was the silence of displeasure. Derek and
Candida, in front, had their own thoughts. If they had been alone they
might have found quite a lot to say, but since everything must be
overheard, they kept their warm and happy counsel.

Arriving at Underhill, the three ladies entered the hall, and Derek took
the car round to the garage. Miss Cara’s ascent of the stairs was slow
and so halting that Candida put an arm round her and went with her to
her room.

‘Can I help you, Aunt Cara?’

‘Oh, no, my dear—no. I will just sit in my chair until Anna comes—if
you will ring the bell—I am only a little tired—so many people all
talking at once.’ She leaned back and closed her eyes.

Candida went out into the passage and looked along it. She wouldn’t go
until Anna was in sight.

But it was Miss Olivia who came towards her in her purple dress, her
gold and amethyst ornaments catching the light. Not for the first time
Candida found herself wondering whether the black hair was a wig. It was
so incredibly shiny and so very, very black. There was never a break in
the even waves, or a hair that was out of place. The dark eyes looked
coldly at Candida.

‘What are you doing here? It is time we were all in bed.’

There was nothing to soften the words. Candida coloured high.

‘It was Aunt Cara,’ she said.

‘What about her?’

‘She seems so tired. She said Anna would come—’

‘Anna will assist us both. She always does.’

A little spark of anger kindled in Candida. She said quickly and warmly,

‘I don’t think Aunt Cara is well—I don’t really. People kept saying
tonight how ill she looked.’

‘They should mind their own business.’

Candida said,

‘I nursed Barbara for three years. I think Aunt Cara is ill.’

Miss Olivia’s face changed suddenly. The features went sharp. There was
a cold fury in the eyes. Her hand came up and struck. A quick blow took
Candida on the cheek-bone. The heavy amethyst bracelet tore a long
scratch across her chin.

She stepped back, too much shocked for anger. Miss Olivia said in a
voice edged with rage,

‘Hold your tongue!’

Neither of them saw Anna until she was there between them, her face
twitching, her hand shaking on Candida’s arm.

‘What is this! No, no—there is nothing—I am stupid! It is late, and
Miss Cara will be tired! We shall all be tired in the morning!’

Candida said in a level voice,

‘Yes, Aunt Cara is tired. You had better go to her.’

Miss Olivia Benevent walked past them into her room and shut the door.




                            Chapter Nineteen


Candida walked away. She had nothing to say to Anna. She had nothing to
say to anyone. She was too horrified to be angry. The sudden violence
appalled her. It seemed so completely without reason—in such
unexplained conflict with Olivia Benevent’s dignity and self-control.

When she reached her room she took off the white dress and hung it up in
the gloomy Victorian wardrobe on the right of the door. She wondered if
she would ever want to wear it again, because Miss Olivia had chosen it
and given it to her. And then it came to her that she would forget that
and only remember that she had worn it when Stephen held her in his
arms. The shocking feeling began to pass. She began to wonder why the
thing had happened. She had said that Miss Cara seemed ill, and Olivia
had struck her. There didn’t seem to be any sense in it. Perhaps there
wasn’t ever any sense about people getting angry, but as a rule you did
know why.

She put up her hand to her face and brought it away with a smear of
blood on the forefinger. If there was blood on the dress, she couldn’t
wear it again. They said blood never came out, but that was nonsense.
But she didn’t want to look and see whether the dress was stained. If it
was, let it stay in the dark—she didn’t want to see it. It was the
amethyst bracelet that had broken the skin. The stones were large and
the gold setting heavy. She held a cloth steeped in cold water to the
scratch, but the blood went on starting. It took her some time to stop
it.

She put on her dressing-gown and sat down by the fire. There was so much
to think about. There was Stephen. She remembered with astonishment that
there had been anger between them, that they had quarrelled. It didn’t
seem possible that their bond had ever been broken. She could see it
bright and strong, always there even from the very first moment when he
had called to her from the sea. Perseus coming to rescue Andromeda
chained to the cliff. But it wasn’t he who had the Gorgon’s head. It was
Olivia Benevent who was Medusa with the eyes which turned to stone. Only
instead of the wreath of twining snakes there were the black waves of
her hair.

Her thoughts had begun to slip into fantasy, when there was a tapping at
the door and without waiting for an answer Anna came in, her hands
outstretched, her eyes full of tears.

‘Oh, Miss Candida, what do I say—I am so sorry, so sorry! I would have
come before, but I have to put my poor Miss Cara into her bed. She is
tired, she is exhausted, she is ill. And she is cold, my poor Miss
Cara—she is so cold! There are two hot water-bottles in her bed. I wrap
her in a soft, warm shawl, and I bring her hot milk with brandy in it.
Now she sleeps. And all this time Miss Olivia shuts her door. I knock
upon it and there is no answer. I try the handle and it will not
turn—the door is locked. So then I come here to you.’ She drew in her
breath with a sound of sharp distress. ‘Oh, there is blood on your face!
My poor Miss Candida!’

Candida said, ‘It isn’t anything.’ There was a little bead of blood upon
her chin, but it had begun to dry.

Anna clucked over her like a distressed hen.

‘It was the heavy bracelet. She did not mean to do that. It will not
leave a scar.’

‘Oh, no—it’s nothing.’

‘She will be so distressed when she sees it. And your cheek—there will
be a bruise!’

‘It will soon go. Anna, why did she do it?’

Anna made a wringing motion with her hands.

‘You said something about Miss Cara—I should have warned you. But what
is one to do? One says too much, or one says too little. How is one to
know what is right? I say nothing, and this happens! I have served them
for forty years, and still I do not know what is best.’

Candida looked at her gravely.

‘Why was she so angry?’

Anna threw up her hands.

‘How do I know? You do not tell me what you say. It is something about
Miss Cara?’

‘I said that she was tired—I had to help her up the stairs. I said that
she was ill.’

‘But that is what no one must ever say. No one—no one must say it. I
should have told you. Even I, after all these years—I tell you, you are
not the only one. She has struck me before now. No one must ever say
that Miss Cara is ill—she will not bear it.’

‘Why?’

‘Do you not know?’

‘How can I? It doesn’t make sense.’

Anna closed her lips and turned away. She moved towards the door. And
then very suddenly she came back again, her white hair sticking up in a
fuzz and her face working.

‘Miss Candida, do you not know what is on her mind? If Miss Cara is
ill—she thinks suppose it were that Miss Cara should die. She is not
strong—she has never been strong. If she dies, what happens then—what
will there be left for Miss Olivia? Everything belongs to Miss Cara, but
only for her life. She cannot leave it to her sister—not one penny of
it! Miss Olivia will have enough to live on—in a little house in
Retley! What would that be like for her? Do you think she would bear it?
But this house and everything in it, and the money, and the Treasure—if
there is any of it left, and how do I know if there is or not—all these
things will be yours! And you tell her that Miss Cara is ill! Do you ask
why she strikes you?’

She turned round and went out of the room.




                             Chapter Twenty


Since Nellie had gone, it was Anna who brought in the morning tea.
Candida, who had not thought that she would sleep, lost herself almost
from the moment that her head touched the pillow. There were no dreams,
there was not anything, but she awoke with the feeling that she had been
a long way off. Anna stood beside her, smiling and solicitous.

‘You slept? There is nothing like sleep and another day. Last night
everyone is tired, everything goes wrong. We are gloomy, we quarrel. It
is all very bad. But this morning we forget about it—it is gone.’

Candida pulled herself up in the bed, her nightgown slipping from one
shoulder. She blinked at Anna and said,

‘I don’t think it’s as easy as that.’

Anna laughed.

‘Oh, yes, yes! Why, the rain is over, the sun shines and the birds sing!
What is the use of thinking about yesterday’s weather? We are not there
any more. If it rained yesterday, there is no need for us to wet our
feet today. Come, you did not tell me about the party. Did you like the
music? Did you see Mr. Eversley? Well, I think you did, and I think that
was one of the things that made Miss Olivia cross. She does not think he
is good enough for you. She would like you to be fond of Mr. Derek, and
she would like him to be fond of you.’

Candida laughed.

‘But I am very fond of Derek, and I hope he is fond of me.’

Anna tossed her head, the white hair flew up.

‘If it were like that, you would not say so! When you say of someone, “I
am so fond of him,” that means nothing at all. But if you say, “I hate
him,” or “I don’t think about him,” that is the one I would look out
for! Now drink your tea, or it will be cold. And let me see your face
. . . _Dio Mio!_ What it is to have a skin that heals like that! There
is hardly anything to show! If you will put a little cream and powder on
it, there will be nothing for anyone to talk about.’

Candida drank her tea and set down the cup. Then she said,

‘Anna, I can’t stay here.’

Anna threw up her hands.

‘Because Miss Olivia loses her temper? In forty years how many times do
you think she has lost it with me? And for you it is all in the family.
You are the child of the house, the little niece of whom everyone is
fond, and you get sometimes a present and sometimes a slap. Would you
make any more of it than that? If you do, you will be making much
trouble about a very little thing. And Miss Cara will be sad, and that
is not good for her. My poor Miss Cara, she has had enough!’

And that was true. Remembering how small and frail the little creature
had looked, Candida’s heart misgave her. You can’t just ride your high
horse down the middle of the road and not care whether you knock someone
else over, especially if they are poor little things like Aunt Cara.

Anna’s large dark eyes were fixed on her with a melting expression.
Candida was reminded of a spaniel pleading for cake. She thought, ‘Oh,
well, let her have it,’ and broke into a smile.

‘All right, Anna. But what do I do next—walk into the dining-room and
say good morning as if nothing had happened?’

Anna nodded vigorously.

‘That will be the best thing. Yes, that will be much the best. I do not
think that Miss Olivia will say anything. And if you say nothing and she
says nothing’—she brought her hands together with a clapping
sound—‘well, then there is nothing to be said. You have your breakfast
in peace, you eat in peace. There is nothing at all so bad for the
digestion as to quarrel when you are eating. No, no, no, for the good
digestion there should be pleasant talk with friends, there should be
smiles, there should be laughter. And that will do my poor Miss Cara
good.’

Candida laughed.

‘A little optimistic, aren’t you, Anna? But I’ll do what I can for Aunt
Cara’s sake.’

Anna smiled, nodded, and then turned suddenly grave again.

‘Oh, my poor Miss Cara!’ she said, and was in a hurry to go.

Seen by daylight the mark on Candida’s cheek really did show very
little. Still it did show, and so did the scratch on her chin. She did
what she could, yet when she met Derek on the stairs his eyebrows went
up.

‘Hullo, what have you been doing to yourself? Had a rough house?’

She put her finger to her lip. There were footsteps on the landing
above. As they glanced round, Miss Olivia came into sight. She wore a
straight black woollen gown buttoned down the front, and a short coat of
grey and violet stuff. Her hair shone. Her smooth sallow skin showed no
trace of an emotional upset. She came down slowly and with her
accustomed dignity to where they were waiting at the foot of the stairs.
Arrived, she said good-morning first to Candida and then to Derek, and
offered a cool cheek to each of them in turn.

Candida had not known that she would feel so much revulsion. The brief
touch of that cold skin was horrible. It took her all she knew not to
recoil from it.

Whatever Derek knew or didn’t know, he could always be counted on for a
pleasant flow of words. He opined that it was going to be a fine day,
and he talked about the party in a very lively manner. It did just occur
to Candida that it wasn’t perhaps the safest subject in the world. Miss
Olivia didn’t miss much, and she might have seen her step behind the
curtain with Stephen. Perhaps she had. Perhaps that was at the back of
her anger. Or if she had not actually seen them go, she might have
missed them both and guessed that they were together. Impossible to say.

Miss Cara came down, shadowy in a replica of her sister’s clothes. And
that was a mistake, for they made her look as if she had shrunk, or as
if they really belonged to someone else.

When the little bustle of serving was over the talk went on again. Miss
Cara said that it had been a nice evening, and that she had enjoyed
seeing Louisa Arnold, but all in a little flat voice and without
conviction.

Olivia Benevent sat up very straight.

‘Louisa is just as foolish and as voluble as she always was. She must
have been a great trial to the Canon. But then Cathedral circles are
always very gossipy, and I suppose he had become used to it.’

‘I always liked Louisa,’ said Miss Cara in a faint, obstinate voice. ‘I
was very pleased to see her again. She was telling me that the cousin
who is staying with her is really a very clever detective but she does
not care about having it known.’

Miss Olivia gave a short scornful laugh.

‘Then how like Louisa to talk about it!’

Miss Cara persevered.

‘Her name is Maud Silver. Louisa says she has solved many difficult
cases besides being an extremely expert knitter.’

It was when breakfast was over that Derek found himself summoned to the
study. When the ladies had seated themselves Miss Olivia spoke in
gracious tones.

‘We are very much pleased that you and Candida are now beginning to work
at the family history.’

‘Well, she’s a lot better at it than I am.’

She smiled.

‘You will help each other, I have no doubt. It is not necessary to say
who contributes the most. It is enough that you should be able to work
pleasantly together. We have been very glad to see that you are making
friends.’

Miss Cara echoed her.

‘We are so very glad.’

His attractive smile flashed out.

‘Well, I suppose you can say that we are both friendly people.’

Miss Olivia looked at him.

‘You would call Candida friendly?’

‘Oh, yes.’

‘And attractive?’

He said, ‘Oh, very,’ and wondered where this was getting them.

‘She seemed to be a good deal admired last night. May I ask what terms
you are on?’

‘Oh, the very best.’

Just as well to be hearty about it, but he did wish that she would stop.

She said in an alarmingly deliberate manner,

‘You would do well to consider whether they might not be even better.’
Then, after a pause, ‘Better—and closer.’

There didn’t seem to be any way out of asking her what she meant.

Miss Cara’s eyes went from one to the other, but she did not speak. He
said,

‘I don’t think I know what you mean. We are very good friends.’

‘I mean that you might be something more.’

His ‘I don’t think so,’ set her frowning. She said very deliberately,

‘Candida is a Benevent. She is considered both pretty and charming. She
will have a good deal of money.’ She forced her voice and made it say,
‘She will have Underhill.’

There was another pause. He would have to speak now, but just what was
he going to say? Enough, but not too much. There was no sense in pulling
the roof down over his head—nasty for him, nasty for Jenny, and nasty
for Candida. He met Miss Cara’s anxious eyes. Her hands fluttered out a
little towards him and drew back. Her ‘Don’t make Olivia angry’ was as
plain as if the words had been spoken. He said,

‘Yes—’

The frown deepened. Olivia Benevent spoke sharply.

‘My dear Derek, you are not really stupid, so why pretend that you are?
You have already agreed with me that Candida is a charming girl, that
she is much admired, and that you are very good friends. She comes of a
family to which, I think we may say, you are already bound by ties of
affection, and she will be a very considerable heiress. You are our
adopted nephew. Owing to the terms on my grandfather’s will we are not
in a position to make the provision for you which we should have wished.
In an earlier and more practical age we should simply have arranged a
marriage between you and our niece, and I have no doubt that it would
have turned out very happily. As it is, all I can do is to point out the
advantages of such a marriage.’

It was impossible to let her go on. He said in a protesting voice,

‘But my dears, she doesn’t care for me like that—she doesn’t really.’

Miss Olivia said, ‘Nonsense! You are here in the house with her—you
have every opportunity of making love to her. But you are just throwing
them away. I have been watching you, and you have simply been wasting
your time. It cannot go on.’

He had remained standing. He backed away now towards the window.

‘You know, you have got this all wrong—you really have. Candida
wouldn’t have me if I asked her.’

‘You cannot know that unless you do ask her. She naturally would not
make the first advances. She would expect you to let her see that you
care for her.’

‘But I don’t. At least not like that.’

Miss Cara pressed a handkerchief to her eyes and spoke in a trembling
voice.

‘She would make you very happy, my dear. She has a very kind heart.’

‘Dear Aunt Cara—’

‘I have grown very fond of her. It would make me very happy.’

Well, there was nothing for it. He put out a hand towards them and said,

‘You know there is nothing I would like better than to please you, but
it isn’t any good, because, you see, I am fond of somebody else.’

They sat and stared at him, a tear just trickling down Miss Cara’s
cheek, Miss Olivia with a hard blank look. For once it was the elder
sister who spoke first.

‘Oh, my dear boy!’

Olivia Benevent just went on looking at him. The silence had grown heavy
before she said,

‘Indeed?’ Just the one word. And then, after a glacial pause, ‘Who is
she?’

He was burning his boats, but he didn’t care. It was going to be worth
everything to be able to say Jenny’s name out loud and have done with
all the secrecy. You slip into it, and before you know where you are it
is sliming you all over.

He said, ‘Jenny Rainsford,’ and Miss Olivia came back at him like the
crack of a whip.

‘A young woman in a second-rate garage!’

‘You don’t know anything about her.’

‘I know what Louisa Arnold told me.’

‘No one could have told you anything that wasn’t good about Jenny—there
isn’t anything else to tell! Her father died, and she worked for her
sisters. If Miss Arnold told you anything, she told you that.’

‘She mentioned it. I am afraid it didn’t interest me. A girl who is left
penniless would naturally have to work. I see nothing remarkable about
that. And I am afraid that I do not admire her choice of what she would
no doubt call a job. Louisa mentioned that her father was a gentleman. I
should think he would have been a good deal distressed at his daughter’s
deliberate descent into quite another class.’

Derek bit his lip. There was no sense in having a quarrel about it. It
wouldn’t help Jenny, and they had been very good to him. He took a step
towards the door, and all at once Olivia Benevent blazed.

‘Is this your gratitude? Is this the return you make for all we have
done for you? Don’t you realise what you are throwing away? Do you think
we shall still take an interest in you when you have gone down into the
gutter? Do you imagine for one moment—’

Her voice had risen to a scream, but he heard Miss Cara’s piteous ‘No,
no!’ She put a hand on the arm of her chair and tried to rise, but
before she had steadied herself to take even one step she gave a gasp
and fell forward. If Derek had not been moving already he would not have
been in time to catch her, but as it was, he did just manage to break
her fall. It all went faster than it can be told. Derek exclaimed, Miss
Olivia cried out sharply, and the door was opened. It disclosed Joseph
standing just beyond the threshold. As he was afterwards to testify,
what he saw was Miss Cara lying on the floor with Derek Burdon standing
over her, and what he heard was Miss Olivia saying on a note of mounting
hysteria,

‘You’ve killed her—you’ve killed her—you’ve killed her!’




                           Chapter Twenty-one


It having been ascertained that Miss Cara was not dead but merely in a
swoon, she was lifted and laid on a massive Victorian couch. Miss Olivia
went down on her knees beside her, and Joseph went for Anna. Presently,
when she had recovered consciousness, Derek carried her up to her room.
As far as Olivia was concerned he might not have been there at all. She
had words for Anna and for Joseph, but not for him. Her glance passed
over him as if he were not there.

Since Candida was having the last of her driving lessons, he had a good
excuse for getting out of the way for some hours. He told her about the
scene.

‘Darling, it was completely shattering. I’ve seen her a bit on the high
horse before now, but nothing like this, I give you my word. I can’t
imagine what has happened to her.’

‘She doesn’t like being crossed,’ said Candida. ‘Aunt Cara doesn’t do it
ever, and you haven’t much. And then I come here, and she doesn’t like
me a lot anyhow, so when I start crossing her it gets her back up.’

‘Why did you start crossing her?’

‘I couldn’t help it—not if I didn’t want to be a trodden slave! She
started on about Stephen being an architect and so I couldn’t have lunch
with him or anything like that, and I couldn’t let her get away with
that sort of thing—now could I?’

‘Well—’

‘I wasn’t going to anyhow! That is the way poor little Aunt Cara has
been ground down until she hasn’t got a will of her own or enough
courage for anything except to say yes when Aunt Olivia says yes, and no
when Aunt Olivia says no.’

Derek looked at her, half laughing, half serious.

‘If Stephen is the bone of contention, you paraded it a bit last night,
didn’t you?’

She coloured brightly.

‘I suppose I did.’

‘Anything in it?’

‘Oh, Derek, yes!’

‘Have you fixed it up?’

She nodded.

‘Last night.’

He took his left hand off the wheel and patted her shoulder.

‘He’s a good chap. Jenny and I are fixing things up too.’

He told her about Jenny and the garage, slowing the car down and even
stopping on the grass verge before they came to the straggle of
bungalows outside the town. At the end he said,

‘I don’t know what’s going to happen now. She may shoot me out straight
away, or she may have a stab at rescuing me. I didn’t get as far as
telling her that Jenny and I are going to take over the garage, so she
doesn’t know the worst.’

‘But you’ll have to tell her now.’

‘I don’t want to upset Aunt Cara.’

Candida reflected that this was Jenny’s business. She could have said
plenty of things herself, but she had enough on her hands without
Derek’s affairs. She said,

‘I’ll be late for my lesson!’

He put out his hand to the switch and drew it back again.

‘I’m not the only one who has put a foot wrong, am I?’ he said with a
hint of malice.

‘What do you mean?’

‘Well, you’ve got rather a lot of make-up on this morning, haven’t you,
darling?’

‘I don’t think so.’

‘Well, I do. And it doesn’t quite prevent me from seeing that you’ve got
a bruise on your cheek and a scratch on your chin. Being the soul of
tact, you will notice that I haven’t asked, “How come?” ’

She flushed to the roots of her hair, but she did not speak.

His eyebrows rose.

‘She hit you? I could have told you that girlish confidences would be
out of place.’

‘There weren’t any—you needn’t be horrid about it. And it wasn’t about
Stephen at all. It was because I said I thought Aunt Cara was ill. And
she is. I had to help her upstairs last night.’

He whistled softly.

‘Darling, I could have told you that too—it’s quite fatal. I did it
once when I first came, and had my nose more or less bitten to the bone.
I suppose it was one of those heavy bracelets that scratched your chin.
They are practically fetters, but she always wears them when she wants
to be grand. Well, we had better be going. Are you seeing Stephen?’

‘I’m lunching with him.’

He laughed.

‘I’m having a heart to heart with Mr. Adamson at the garage. Burning the
boats, you know. He’s in a hurry to get everything fixed up. He wants to
hand over the house and a lot of the business and take a bit of an
easy.’

It was odd to meet Stephen with everything changed between them. He
brought a picnic lunch, and they drove out to the place where they had
quarrelled and ate it there. It was one of those early days of spring
when the sun shines sweetly for perhaps half an hour, and then without a
warning the sky clouds up and the rain comes plumping down.

They sat in the car and talked. It was past hoping for that at such
close quarters Stephen would not see what Derek had seen—the slight
change in the contour of the cheek, the faint dulling of the skin, and
the line where the bracelet had scratched her chin. At a little distance
and to the casual eye there was not much to be seen, but where there was
no distance at all and the eye was that of a lover, concealment could
hardly be hoped for. Stephen exclaimed, questioned, cross-examined—and
went up in smoke.

‘That settles it! You must get away at once!’

‘Oh, no, we have an amnesty.’

‘Nonsense! Did she beg your pardon?’

Candida laughed.

‘Of course she didn’t! I don’t suppose she has ever begged anyone’s
pardon in her life. We just ignore the whole thing.’

‘All very well for her, but where do you come in?’

‘Darling, come down off the high horse! She lost her temper, and that
was all there was to it. You can’t have a brawl with a great-aunt—it
isn’t done. Besides, there is Aunt Cara. She is ill, and I think she is
very unhappy, and she does rather cling to me. No, Stephen, listen—you
really must! I can’t just rush away in a temper and leave the bits lying
about all over the place. What I thought I would do was to let a day or
two go by, and then I must begin to look for a job in earnest.’

He put his arms round her.

‘You don’t need to look for a job—you’ve got one. I rang up my uncle
this morning and told him you were taking me on.’

‘You didn’t!’

‘Why shouldn’t I? I don’t have to walk round my relations like a cat on
hot bricks. He was thrilled, and suggested I should bring you over for
the next week-end. And then, I think, it would be a good plan if you
came and stayed with Cousin Louisa for a bit while I am getting on with
the jobs round here.’

‘But she hasn’t asked me.’

Stephen said in a purposeful voice,

‘She will.’




                           Chapter Twenty-two


However much Miss Cara might have wanted to stay quietly in her bed,
cosseted by Anna and visited by Candida and Derek, she was not permitted
to do so. She could stay where she was for the morning, and she could
have her afternoon nap, but she must get up and come down for tea.
Candida, who had come to enquire, stood unnoticed by the half-open door
and heard Miss Olivia dealing with her reluctance.

‘If you do not feel able to get up, I shall be obliged to send for Dr.
Stokes.’

Miss Cara said in her mousy voice,

‘He is away.’

‘How do you know?’ said Miss Olivia sharply.

‘Louisa mentioned it.’

‘Then I shall send for his partner. We haven’t met him yet, but I
suppose he is competent, and I have no doubt that Louisa has supplied
you with his name.’

‘It is Gardiner. She says he is very clever. But there is no need to
send for him—I am quite all right.’

‘Then you can come down to tea. I will ring for Anna.’

As she had not been seen, Candida thought it best to slip away.

Derek did not return until it was time to change. The evening dragged.
It was Miss Cara who saved the situation by asking for music.

‘Some of those nice old waltzes, and the duets you and Candida were
practising.’

Once at the piano, it was easy to stay there. Miss Cara, pleased and
relaxed, leaned back in her chair, fingering out the tunes upon her knee
or humming a bar or two in a kind of toneless whisper. With yesterday’s
late evening for an excuse, she was able to make a move before ten
o’clock, and Miss Olivia went with her.

Derek and Candida looked at each other.

‘You got home all right?’

She nodded.

‘Stephen dropped me at the gate. Did you get anything fixed?’

‘I’m practically a garage proprietor. I’ve been going through the books
with Mr. Adamson. If he’d any tact he’d have turned me over to Jenny,
but not a bit of it! And in between showing me the ropes he told me all
about everything that had ever happened from the word go.’

Candida laughed.

‘Where was Jenny?’

‘Sitting behind the counter, and coming backwards and forwards with
ledgers and those spiky things you stick bills on, and reminding him
about anything he happened to leave out. You know, she really is a
marvel. I shall never know half as much about it all as she does.’

They put away the music and went up together with so much friendly
feeling that it seemed natural enough when he put an arm about her and
kissed her good-night at the top of the stairs.

She was just going to get into bed, when Anna came in.

‘Perhaps if you will come and say good night to Miss Cara—’

‘Is anything the matter?’

Anna flung out her hands.

‘She is sad—she cries all the time!’

‘But why? She was all right downstairs. Derek played, and we sang—’

‘Yes, yes—it is because of that—it reminds her of the old days! And
then she thinks that Mr. Derek will be going away and there will be no
one to play and sing any more—and she thinks that you will go away too!
And she thinks that when she loves anyone it is always the same
thing—they go away and they do not come back! She thinks about Mr. Alan
and she weeps for him!’

Candida said, ‘I’ll come.’

But when they reached Miss Cara’s door it was opened with great
suddenness by Miss Olivia in a black velvet wrap. Candida thought she
looked like an angry raven. Her foot stamped the floor and she said,
whispering fiercely,

‘She is not to be disturbed! I do not know what Anna is thinking of to
bring you here! Go to your room and stay there!’

She stepped back as she spoke, and the door was shut. There was the
sound of a turning key.

Anna said, ‘_Dio mio!_’ And then she had Candida by the sleeve, pulling
her away. When they were round the turn where the stairs went down she
stopped. Her hand shook on Candida’s arm. She said in a stumbling voice,

‘After forty years—still I am afraid of her—’




                          Chapter Twenty-three


The last thing Candida heard before she slept was the rain dashing
against the windows. It went through her mind that it must be driving
in, and then she slid away into a dream in which the sound was changed
to the voice of someone weeping bitterly and comfortless. She didn’t
know who it was, and she didn’t know how long it went on, but she waked
suddenly with the wind swirling into the room and the curtains wet and
flapping. It was quite difficult to get the windows shut. There was a
gale blowing, and the casements strained against it. After she had got
them fastened there was quite a lot of water on the floor. There were
cloths on a pail in the housemaid’s cupboard just across the passage.
She fetched them, got the water mopped up, and then found she had to
change her nightgown.

When she and the floor were both dry she stood a minute and listened to
the wind. It came against the house in great roaring waves and went
howling through the gap between the old back wall and the hill. It came
to her that Miss Cara might be frightened. She remembered hearing her
say that the wind at night was a sound that frightened her, and Miss
Olivia had said ‘Nonsense!’ very sharply. She wondered whether Aunt Cara
was awake in the dark and afraid. There was only a bathroom between the
sisters’ rooms, but she didn’t think Cara would call for help, or that
Olivia would come to her if she did. She wondered if the door would
still be locked.

And then, without any conscious decision on her part, she had her own
door open and was feeling her way to the end of the passage. When she
turned the corner she had the light behind her, and so came to the head
of the stairs. The hall below was a black pit. She skirted it and went
softly down the corridor to Miss Cara’s room. When she came to the door
she stood there listening. Here in the middle of the house the sound of
the wind was heavy and dull. No other sound came through it. If she had
called aloud, no one would have heard her. She could try the handle and
have no fear that anyone would wake. She turned it, and felt the door
give under her hand. The room was perfectly dark—no shape of the
windows, no faintest glimmer of light, the wind shut out, the curtains
closely drawn. She could hear no sound of breathing. She could not even
distinguish the position of the bed. There was only darkness and the
heavy droning of the wind.

She stood like that and let the minutes go by. If Miss Cara was awake
and afraid, surely she would have put on the light. She wouldn’t just
lie in the dark and do nothing about it. After what seemed quite a long
time Candida drew back and closed the door. She did not know, she could
not have known, how bitterly she was going to regret this most
reasonable action. Go over it as she would, she did not see how she
could have done anything but what she did. And yet it hurt her at her
heart, and always would.

It may have been the faint jar of the closing door that touched Miss
Cara’s sleeping thought. It may have been the next wild gust that shook
the house, or it may have been an earlier one. It may have been the
sense of Candida’s presence. No one was ever to know. Sometimes a very
small thing slips into a dream and troubles it, or the utmost raging of
a storm may leave it untroubled and apart. At some time during that
night of wind and rain Cara Benevent rose up out of her bed, put
slippers on her feet, and wrapped a dressing-gown about her. There was
no means of telling whether she had a light to see by. It was certain
that she left her room, but whether she went walking or sleeping no one
could know. She went, and she did not return.

Candida went back to her room and slept until the cold grey dawn came
up. She was awake when Anna burst into the room. She was dressed, but
she carried no tray. The tears ran down her cheeks and her eyes were
wild. She fell down on her knees by the bed, her arms flung out and the
breath catching in her throat.

‘My Miss Cara—oh, my Miss Cara! Why did I leave her—why did I not stay
with her!’

Candida pulled herself up in the bed.

‘Anna, what is it? Is Aunt Cara ill?’

Anna gave a long wailing cry.

‘If she were ill, I would nurse her, I would stay with her—I would not
come running to anyone else! She is dead! My Miss Cara is dead!’

Candida felt a coldness creep over her. It slowed her movements, her
words. Her tongue stumbled as she said,

‘Are—you—sure?’

‘Would I say it if I were not sure? Would I not be with her? I leave her
because there is nothing we can do any more! She lies there at the foot
of the stairs and she is dead! The storm frightens her—she walks in her
sleep—she falls and strikes her head! The old houses—the stairs are
not safe—they are so narrow and so steep! She falls, my poor Miss Cara,
and she is dead! And will you tell me how I am to tell Miss Olivia?’

‘She doesn’t know?’

‘How should she know? She is expecting me to bring the tea! How can I go
to her and tell her, “Your tea is here, and Miss Cara is dead”? The
hardest heart in the world could not do it—I cannot do it!’

Candida was out of her bed, slipping into her clothes, running a comb
through her hair, putting on a grey and white pullover and a grey tweed
skirt because they were warm and everything in her seemed to have turned
to ice. They went down the stairs to the hall. Miss Cara lay in a
twisted heap where the left-hand newel met the floor. One arm was
doubled up under her and she was cold and stiff. There could not be any
doubt at all that she was dead.

Candida, on her knees by the body, found herself whispering, ‘Did you
move her?’

Anna had sunk down upon the bottom step. She sat bowed forward, her head
in her hands. She said on a low sobbing breath,

‘No—no—I only touch her cheek, her hand. I know that she is dead—’

‘Yes, she is dead. We mustn’t move her.’

‘I know—it is the law.’

‘We must send for the doctor.’

Anna caught her breath.

‘He is away—only yesterday Miss Cara said so. It is his partner who
will come, Dr. Gardiner—but what can anyone do now?’

Candida said, ‘Fetch Mr. Derek!’

He came, as shocked as she was herself. They knelt on either side of
Miss Cara and spoke low, as if she were asleep and must not be
disturbed.

‘You must ring up the doctor. You had better go and do it now.’

‘Has anyone told—_her_?’

‘No, not yet.’

‘Someone must.’

‘And who is to do it?’ said Anna on a sobbing breath. ‘It should be you
who are of the family, Miss Candida.’

Candida steadied herself. If she must she must, but it would come better
from Anna—perhaps even from this weeping, shaken Anna who had gone back
to her crouched position on the bottom step—not from the girl who came
between Olivia Benevent and all that she was accustomed to look upon as
her own. She said, ‘Anna, you have been with her forty years,’ and Anna
wailed, ‘Do not ask me—I cannot!’

There was a silence, and then a sound. It came from the stair above
them, and it was made by the heavy tassel of Miss Olivia’s dressing-gown
dropping from step to step as she came slowly down. It was a purple
tassel on a cord of purple and black, and the gown was purple too.

Olivia Benevent came down at a measured pace, her hand on the
balustrade. Not a hair of her smooth waves was out of place. There was
no expression in her face or in her eyes, but Candida, looking up, could
see where a muscle jerked in the side of the throat. She came right down
to the floor of the hall and stood there staring at her sister’s body.
Then she said,

‘Which of you killed her?’




                          Chapter Twenty-four


Dr. Gardiner sat looking at Inspector Rock. They made a sharp
contrast—Gardiner thin, dark, alert, and the Inspector a big fair man
who would be massive by the time he was fifty. At present he was a
likeable thirty-six with a pleasant blue eye and a humorous mouth. They
were in the study, and somehow they made it seem crowded. Too many
pictures on the walls, too much china, too many nicknacks. Gardiner
said,

‘Well, I can only go on saying what I have said all along. If she fell
down the stairs and was killed, then someone arranged the body in the
position in which we found it. The back of her head—well, you saw it
for yourself—completely crushed. But she was found lying on her face,
and everyone swears they didn’t turn her over. And why should they? The
other way round and there would have been some sense in it. If you find
a woman lying on her face, you might turn her over, but if she’s lying
on her back, why should you? No sense in it at all.’

He had pulled a chair sideways to one of the windows and sat there, one
knee over the other—Rock conventionally at Miss Olivia’s writing-table,
but with his chair slewed about to face the doctor. He made one of those
non-committal sounds, and Gardiner went on.

‘I won’t dogmatise about the time she died. Your man will be able to
tell you more about that after the post-mortem, but if Burdon and Miss
Sayle and the maid are all telling the truth about when they found her,
then they couldn’t have had any hand in arranging the position. To have
been done with any chance of deceiving anyone it must have been done
soon. It wasn’t much after half past seven when they rang me, and I was
here by ten minutes after eight, and she had certainly been dead a good
many hours then. As you know, I rang you up at once, and here we are. I
take it the rest of your gang will be along at any time. You won’t want
me any more.’

‘I thought you might stay until Black gets here. I thought he might like
to see you.’

Gardiner’s shoulder lifted.

‘Nothing I can do,’ he said.

‘Well, you were the first on the spot. I was going to ask you what you
thought of it all.’

The shoulder jerked again.

‘Not my business.’

‘Oh, just for my own private consideration and strictly off the record.’

Gardiner had a twisted smile for that.

‘Oh, well, plenty of animus knocking about. Miss Olivia very determined
about someone having killed her sister. Miss Sayle very quiet and
shocked. Burdon a good deal distressed. And the maid Anna as
temperamental as they come. She’s been with them for forty years, so I
suppose she has a right to be upset. The butler is her husband—a whole
lot younger, and not so long in their service—a mere fifteen or twenty
years. He appears to be normally affected. That’s the best I can do.’

‘No one else in the house?’

‘Not living in. The daily woman showed up and had hysterics. She comes
out from Retley.’

He had got to his feet and was stretching, when the door opened and
Olivia Benevent came in. She was now fully dressed in the black
buttoned-up garment which was her usual morning wear, only instead of
the grey and mauve coatee which she had worn yesterday she had thrown
about her shoulders a plain black shawl. The whole effect was that of
the deepest mourning. Dr. Gardiner had the ironic thought that whatever
happened, women must still be thinking of their clothes.

She came up to her writing-table in a very composed manner and addressed
the Superintendent with chill formality.

‘May I enquire how long you intend to leave my sister’s body lying on
the floor in the hall?’

The Inspector rose to his feet.

‘I am very sorry, Miss Benevent, but you yourself have suggested that
this may be a case of murder. It is my duty to see that nothing is moved
until measurements and photographs have been taken. The necessary
apparatus is on its way. If you will retire to your own sitting-room, I
will let you know as soon as we have finished.’

She stood there without moving.

‘And when do you propose to arrest the person who killed my sister?’

‘Miss Benevent—’

‘Do you need me to tell you who it was? There is only one person who had
any interest in her death, her great-niece Candida Sayle—a girl whom we
invited here in the kindness of our hearts, a girl who had been left
penniless, but who now inherits Underhill and everything that belonged
to my sister. Perhaps you did not know that.’

‘Miss Benevent—’

She interrupted him in the same cold manner as before.

‘I assure you that that is the case. You may, if you please refer to our
solicitor, Mr. Tampling, for corroboration. So you see, there is quite a
strong motive.’

‘This is a very serious accusation. Have you any evidence to support
it?’

‘There is the motive.’

‘Is there any evidence?’

She pressed her lips together for a moment, and then said,

‘We were at a reception at the Deanery the night before last. Candida
made herself conspicuous with a young man of whom we do not approve. On
our return home she went upstairs with my sister, accompanying her to
the door of her room. It is possible that my sister reproved her for her
conduct—I do not know. But as I came up behind them I was aware that
there was something wrong—my sister seemed to be much distressed. When
she had gone into her room I spoke to Candida. I told her that her aunt
was not strong and must not be upset. She said, “What does it matter
when you are as old as that? She will die soon anyhow.” ’

‘She used those words? You are certain?’

‘I am perfectly certain.’

‘They were spoken in anger?’

‘They were spoken coolly, impudently—and I struck her.’

He made no comment. Perhaps that stung her. She tapped with her foot.

‘No doubt she will tell you about it herself, but you need not suppose
that she will tell you the truth. You can ask Anna. My sister had rung
for her, and she was coming along the passage. I do not know how much
she heard, but she saw what I was provoked into doing. I am not
accustomed to having my word doubted, but in a case of murder I
understand that the testimony of a second person is desirable. Anna is
such a person.’

‘Certainly. But I would ask you again what reason you have to suppose
that your sister was murdered.’

She stood there straight and motionless, the black shawl falling almost
to her feet.

‘My sister was greatly fatigued—she went up early. Anna left her in
bed. Why should she have got up again. She would not have done so unless
she had been persuaded, and who was there to persuade her except that
girl? I know that she had already tried to see my sister, because I
heard a sound in the passage and I opened my door. Candida was about to
enter my sister’s room. Anna can confirm this if she chooses. She was
there, but Candida seems to have bewitched her—she may not tell the
truth. I have not discussed the matter with her. When I said that my
sister was not to be disturbed, they went away. Do you think it
surprising if I believe that Candida came back later? I do not know how
she persuaded my sister to leave her room, but it is clear that she was
persuaded, and that when she came to the head of the stairs she was
pushed. She was in frail health, and it would not have been difficult.
That is all I have to say.’ She turned round and walked out of the room.

Dr. Gardiner whistled.

‘And where do we go from here?’ he said.

Since it was just then that the police surgeon, the photographer, and
other police reinforcements arrived, Rock had no occasion to reply.
There is a routine that waits on violent death. Photographs and
fingerprints must be taken before the body can be moved or decent
privacy be accorded it. A post-mortem lies ahead. It was some time
before Rock was at leisure for an interview. He had in a young detective
to take shorthand notes and sent for Anna.

The resulting interview was both confused and confusing. Anna had had
time to weep herself stupid. Yes, she remembered the ladies coming back
from the Deanery party. Her poor Miss Cara had gone upstairs with Miss
Candida. Miss Olivia came up afterwards. No, she didn’t see them come
home, she didn’t see them go up. She came when the bell rang from Miss
Cara’s room.

‘When you came along the passage, what did you see?’

‘Nothing—nothing. Why should there be anything to see?’

‘Miss Olivia says there was. She says that she struck Miss Sayle. She
says you must have seen it.’

Anna gave a convulsive sob.

‘Why does she say that? It is better that we all forget!’

‘But she did strike her?’

Anna threw up her hands.

‘She has a quick temper. She has struck me before now. If anything is
said about Miss Cara, she cannot bear it.’

‘Something was said about Miss Cara?’

‘Yes—yes! She will not bear it—ever!’

‘Miss Sayle said something about Miss Cara. What did she say?’

‘It was something about her being ill.’

‘Was there anything said about her dying?’

Anna cried out.

‘Oh, no, no—I do not know—I do not know! If one is ill one can always
die! And she will not bear it—that is the thing she will not bear! No
one must say that Miss Cara is ill, that she is tired, that she is
old—no one may say it ever!’

‘Did Miss Sayle say that she was old?’

Anna looked at him in a bewildered way.

‘How do I know?’

‘Did you hear her say it?’

‘I do not know what I heard. It was all so quick, and Miss Olivia was
angry.’

‘Did you hear Miss Sayle say that Miss Cara was old and would die soon?’

Anna put her hands over her face.

‘No—no—no! I tell you I do not know what they say! When Miss Olivia is
like that I shake all over! Yes, after forty years!’ Her hands dropped.
She looked at him with streaming eyes. ‘Miss Candida says something
about Miss Cara—that she is ill, she is tired—I do not know what! And
Miss Olivia strikes her in the face!’

Try as he would, he got no more from her than that.

When he came to the previous evening, she was still very much agitated,
but not nearly so confused. Miss Cara would not settle down. She was
tired, she wept. Anna went to fetch Miss Candida.

‘Why?’

‘Miss Cara loves her. I think it will comfort her if Miss Candida comes
to say good night. But Miss Olivia is angry. She sends us away, and she
locks the door.’

‘She locked Miss Cara’s door?’

Anna nodded vigorously.

‘There is a bathroom between their two rooms. She locks Miss Cara’s door
and she goes through into her own room.’

‘And after that did you go back to Miss Cara at all?’

‘No—no—I do not see her again—until this morning—and she is dead!’

He picked up a pencil and balanced it.

‘Yes, you found her, didn’t you? Tell me about it.’

He had had it all poured out to him when he came, but he wanted to hear
it again. A tale repeated word for word could suggest that it had been
learned by heart, yet sometimes that was how an uneducated witness would
repeat it. On the other hand, a frightened woman telling lies could
easily forget just what lies she had told and slip into a revealing
difference.

Anna’s tale remained as she had sobbed it out over Miss Cara’s body.

‘I come to wake her. It is seven o’clock. I bring with me the tray with
the tea things and I go to her room. I go to her first because I want to
know how she has slept. She is not in her bed, and I think perhaps she
is in the bathroom. I put down the tray and I go to look, but she is not
there. I listen at Miss Olivia’s door, but there is no sound. Then I
think she has gone to Miss Candida, and I go back along the passage and
past the stairs, and when I am there I look down into the hall and I see
my Miss Cara lying there, and she is dead!’

The tears were streaming down her face.

‘You went down to her?’

She spread out her hands.

‘Oh, yes, yes—how can I not go down!’

‘Did you touch her—move her?’

‘I touch her hand, her cheek, and I know that she is dead! I see her
poor head—oh, _Dio Mio_! But I do not move her—I know I must not do
that! I go to fetch Miss Candida!’

Rock said quickly,

‘Was Miss Cara’s door still locked this morning?’

‘No—_no!_’ Anna was emphatic.

‘Then she must have unlocked it herself.’

Anna looked down into her lap.

‘Or Miss Olivia,’ she said.




                          Chapter Twenty-five


Candida came into the room and took a chair at the side of the
writing-table. She had seen the Inspector when he arrived, but the young
man with his writing-pad on his knee was new to her. They were both part
of the horrid dream which had taken the place of normal everyday life.
She felt giddy and a little sick. Things seemed to be a long way off.
She was glad to sit down.

The Inspector had a pleasant voice. He asked her to tell him about what
had happened when they came back from the party at the Deanery. She
answered with simplicity.

‘I went up with Aunt Cara. She was very tired. I had to help her up the
stairs. When we got to her room she sat down, and I rang for Anna. She
didn’t want to talk, so I went out into the passage. I thought I would
wait there till I saw Anna coming, but Aunt Olivia came first. She asked
what I was doing there, and I said Aunt Cara wasn’t feeling well and I
was waiting for Anna. She wasn’t pleased.’ She paused, and added in a
hesitating voice, ‘Then Anna came, and I went to my room.’

Rock said, ‘Are you not leaving something out, Miss Sayle?’

She was pale, but a momentary colour sprang up and then ebbed again.

‘What do you mean?’

‘There is some evidence of a quarrel between you and Miss Benevent
outside Miss Cara’s door. I would like to have your account of what took
place.’

Candida bit her lip.

‘I didn’t want to speak about it. It hadn’t anything to do with—with
what has happened.’

‘I’m afraid I must ask you to tell me about it.’

She said in a distressed voice.

‘It seems so horrid—now. I was feeling worried about Aunt Cara. She was
very tired, and I thought that she was ill, and that Aunt Olivia didn’t
realise it. So I said what I thought, and—she was angry.’

‘Will you tell me just what you said?’

‘I don’t know—I think I said that Aunt Cara seemed so tired, and that I
thought she was ill. And—oh, yes, I said that people at the Deanery
party had noticed it. Aunt Olivia said they ought to mind their own
business. She told me to hold my tongue—’ Her voice faltered.

Looking at her sharply, Rock could see the faint mark on her cheek and
the line of the scratch on her chin. He spoke very directly.

‘That is what she said. You haven’t told me what she did. I think she
did do something. Didn’t she?’

There were tears in Candida’s eyes, deepening and darkening the blue.

‘She couldn’t bear to hear about Aunt Cara being ill—Anna told me
afterwards.’

‘She struck you?’

‘Please—’

‘Well, she did, didn’t she? She says so herself, so you needn’t mind
admitting it. Now, Miss Sayle, I want to know just what you said to
provoke her into doing that.’

Candida’s head lifted a little.

‘I said Aunt Cara was ill.’

‘Did you say that she was old?’

‘No—no—I wouldn’t say that!’

‘Or that she would die, or that she would soon be dead?’

‘Of course not!’ Her voice rang on the words.

‘You are quite certain about that?’

She used the very words that Miss Olivia had used.

‘I am perfectly certain.’

He left it there and took her through the previous evening. Her story
fitted in well enough with Anna’s. She had gone to her room. Anna had
come to fetch her because Miss Cara was unhappy, but Miss Olivia had
sent them away and locked the door. When she had done, Rock said,

‘Was there any reason why Miss Cara should have been sad? Was something
troubling her?’

Candida hesitated. How much had one to tell?

He said quickly, ‘Was she upset about the quarrel between you and Miss
Olivia?’

‘There wasn’t any quarrel.’

‘Really, Miss Sayle—when she had struck you in the face only the
evening before!’

She had an impulse to be frank.

‘I know. But there wasn’t any quarrel. Anna told me Aunt Olivia would
never mention it again, and she didn’t. We met in the morning as if
nothing had happened. Derek and I were together when she came down. She
kissed us both. And I’m sure Aunt Cara never knew anything about it at
all.’

‘Then what reason had she for being unhappy?’

It was better to tell him than to have him imagining things. She said,

‘There was someone who used to be their secretary before Derek Burdon.
They were very fond of him. He went off suddenly about three years ago.’

Rock nodded.

‘Thompson,’ he said, ‘Alan Thompson. There was a lot of talk about it
when I first came here.’

‘He is supposed to have gone off with a diamond brooch and a good deal
of money. Aunt Cara cared for him a lot, and it nearly broke her heart.
She was ill, and Aunt Olivia took her away. When the same time of year
comes round it all comes back to her. She came into my room the other
night and told me about it. That is why she was sad. Anna thought she
would like it if I just went in to see her and say good night.’

‘You were on affectionate terms with her?’

Candida said,

‘I was very fond of her.’




                           Chapter Twenty-six


Inspector Rock made his report to the Chief Constable.

‘On the face of it, sir, it doesn’t look like an accident. To start
with—the position of the body, which is shown very clearly in the
photographs. She couldn’t possibly have fallen in the position in which
she was found, and the position in which she was found doesn’t account
for the fractured skull. We ought to know a bit more after the
post-mortem, but I think it’s clear enough that she didn’t just fall
down those stairs. Miss Olivia Benevent is very bitter against Miss
Sayle. She accuses her of murdering Miss Cara in order to succeed to the
property.’

‘Does she succeed?’

‘Well, yes, she does. And it is obviously a very sore point. Mr. Derek
Burdon informs me that the Miss Benevents’ grandfather came in for a lot
of money from his mother, and he settled it, like the rest of the
property, first on his son and his male heirs after him, and failing
these on daughters and their descendants. The son had only the three
daughters, Cara, Candida, and Olivia. If Cara had had children,
everything would have gone to them—to the sons first, and then to the
daughters in the order of their age. If she didn’t have children,
everything went to the next sister, Candida. Miss Sayle is her
grand-daughter and only surviving descendant, so she gets the lot.’

‘Miss Olivia Benevent doesn’t get anything?’

‘Some property in Retley and a life-rent of about five hundred a year.’

The Chief Constable had known the Miss Benevents in a distant social way
for upwards of twenty years. He had never felt any urge to improve the
acquaintance, but it enabled him to form a fairly accurate picture of
Miss Olivia’s reactions to being cut out by a great-niece. He was a
lively little man, efficient at his job, but with a taste for lighter
relaxation than was afforded by the Miss Benevents’ circle. He rode to
hounds, competed at point-to-points, and was in demand as a partner at
local dances. Since he was under fifty, he considered that he could
defer marrying for at least another five years. He raised his eyebrows.

‘A bit rough on Olivia. But _murder_! What’s the girl like?’

‘Two or three and twenty—nice-looking—quiet. Made a good clear
statement, as you see. The maid, Anna, says Miss Cara was very fond of
her—it’s in her statement. She says she fetched her because Miss Cara
was crying and she thought it would comfort her to see Miss Sayle. Miss
Sayle herself says she was very fond of her aunt.’

Major Warrender picked up the typed copy of Miss Olivia Benevent’s
statement and frowned at it.

‘She says she spoke to Miss Sayle outside her sister’s door—let me see,
that was the night of the Deanery party, wasn’t it?—something about not
upsetting her—and that the girl said, “What does it matter when you are
as old as that? She will die soon anyhow.” ’ He put the paper down
again. ‘Doesn’t seem an awfully likely thing for a girl to say,
somehow.’

‘No, sir.’

‘And the maid shilly shallies—doesn’t say she said it, doesn’t say she
didn’t say it. Says she can’t say what was said. Looks to me as if she
didn’t like to contradict Miss Olivia. And the girl says she was worried
about Miss Cara and told Miss Olivia that she thought she was ill. The
only thing they are all agreed about is that Miss Olivia struck Miss
Sayle. A fairly odd thing to do unless there was something to account
for it.’

‘The maid says Miss Olivia couldn’t bear to have anyone remark on Miss
Cara not being well.’

Warrender nodded.

‘Eccentric old party,’ he said. ‘Autocrat. Bullied her sister by all
accounts. Up against the niece because she couldn’t bully her, I
shouldn’t wonder.’

‘She’s up against her all right. But Miss Sayle isn’t the only one she’s
up against. You haven’t looked at the butler’s statement yet—Joseph
Rossi. He is married to the maid Anna, by the way. He came in on rather
an odd kind of scene yesterday morning. There was some sort of quarrel
between Miss Olivia and the young fellow Derek Burdon whom they call
their secretary. She had him into the study immediately after breakfast.
Miss Cara was there too. Joseph says he had occasion to come in and see
to the fire, but if you ask me, I should say he was eavesdropping.
Anyhow he says he heard voices raised. He heard one of the ladies say,
“Is this your gratitude?” and just as he was wondering whether he should
go away and come back later, Miss Olivia screamed and Miss Cara cried
out, “No—no!” He opened the door and saw Miss Cara lying on the floor
with Derek Burdon standing over her, and Miss Olivia was saying, “You’ve
killed her—you’ve killed her—you’ve killed her!” ’

‘What had he done?’

‘His account of it is that Miss Olivia wanted him and Miss Sayle to make
a match of it, but they didn’t see it that way. They are very good
friends, but Miss Sayle is engaged to somebody else, and so is he. He
told Miss Olivia he was engaged, and that he was planning to get married
and go into a garage business. She lost her temper, Miss Cara fainted,
and Joseph came in. All quite straightforward, and much more likely than
that there was any violence on Burdon’s part. It links up with Miss
Olivia striking Miss Sayle, and with what Joseph says further on.
Here—down at the bottom of the page.’

‘What—this bit?’

‘Yes, sir. It’s what happened this morning.’

Warrender read aloud: ‘ “I came into the hall, and saw Miss Cara lying
at the foot of the stairs. Miss Sayle was down on her knees beside her
and Mr. Derek was looking over her shoulder. My wife Anna was sitting on
the bottom step. She was crying. Miss Olivia came down the stairs in her
dressing-gown. When she got to the bottom she stood looking at Miss
Cara, and she said, ‘Which of you killed her?’ ” ’ He broke off and
said,

‘Rather given to jumping to conclusions, isn’t she? And a bit free with
the temper. I suppose she didn’t push Miss Cara over herself?’

‘Well, sir, she had every reason not to, the property all going past her
to Miss Sayle.’

Major Warrender nodded.

‘I suppose so. All the same, dishing out accusations of other people
always seems a bit fishy to me.’

He went on reading Joseph’s statement.




                          Chapter Twenty-seven


Miss Silver was enjoying the peaceful hour which follows afternoon tea.
Louisa had been recalling a number of those family events which never
seem to lose their interest for elderly ladies. Together they had
recalled how Fanny’s wilfulness had precipitated her into that
disastrous marriage, and moralised over the painful consequences of
Roger’s determination to go to China. Louisa had been able to supply
some hitherto unknown details in the matter of Millicent’s divorce, and
to assure her cousin that there was no truth whatever in the scandalous
rumour that poor Henry had committed suicide. Miss Silver knitted and
listened. Everything that people did or said was of interest, and Louisa
was able to throw quite a fresh light upon both Henry and Millicent.
Miss Arnold had just observed that, ‘What the housemaid said was, of
course, quite conclusive,’ when the telephone bell rang. Louisa, lifting
the receiver, heard Stephen Eversley’s voice.

‘Oh, is that you? Could I speak to Miss Silver?’

‘Of course, my dear boy. I hope there is nothing wrong?’

‘I’m afraid there is. Look here, Cousin Louisa, she does take things on
professionally, doesn’t she?’

‘Who—Maud? Oh, yes, she does—but I really don’t know—’

Miss Silver put down her knitting and came across the room. As she
approached the instrument she could distinguish the sound of the man’s
voice, and that he seemed to be in something of a hurry.

‘Oh, no!’ said Louisa Arnold in a shocked voice. ‘Oh, yes, of
course—but I don’t suppose. . . . Well, perhaps you had better speak to
her yourself.’

Rightly judging this to be her cue, Miss Silver took possession of the
receiver. As she put it to her ear she heard Stephen Eversley say,

‘I would like to come and see her at once if I can.’

With a faint preliminary cough she said,

‘Miss Silver speaking. Am I right in thinking that you wish to see me?’

‘Yes—yes, please.’

‘Then you had better come round here.’

‘Yes, I’ll come at once.’

She hung up. Louisa was agog.

‘Maud—he says Cara Benevent is dead! Some sort of accident! Do you
know, I thought he sounded quite upset! And if he is, that must mean
that he is really interested in Candida Sayle!’

When Stephen arrived it was clear that no secret was to be made of this
interest. He said they were engaged, and went on, still with that hurry
in his voice,

‘Miss Silver—’

Miss Arnold broke in on a twittering note.

‘My dear boy—what has happened? Poor Cara!’

He would rather have spoken to Miss Silver alone, but this was plainly
impossible. Cousin Louisa was overflowing with interest, commiseration,
and kindness, and he must endure them with as good a grace as he could
muster. He said,

‘I’ve been out all day, going into those plans with Lord Retborough.
When I got in, there was a message to ring up Underhill. Burdon answered
the call. He told me Miss Cara was dead—some sort of an accident. And
he fetched Candida. She said’—he began to pick his words with
care—‘she said Miss Olivia was very much upset.’

‘Oh, she must be!’ said Louisa Arnold. ‘Oh, poor Olivia! It must be
dreadful for her! She did bully Cara, but of course she was devoted to
her too! That was why she was in such a state when people were saying
that Cara meant to marry Alan Thompson! Of course there couldn’t have
been any truth in it, but it would upset her dreadfully all the same!’

Stephen went on with what he had been going to say.

‘Well, she is so much upset now that she says she can’t stay in the
house.’

‘My dear!’

‘Not even for a single night.’

‘Oh, my dear Stephen!’

He nodded.

‘Actually, she has gone already.’

‘Gone! Where?’

Miss Silver had not spoken. She stood there quietly and listened.
Stephen threw up a hand.

‘It seems that she owns a house in Retley. It’s been let, but the
tenants went out a week ago. She has taken Joseph and gone there. Anna
is to follow later.’

‘My _dear Stephen_!’

He spoke directly to Miss Silver.

‘You see how it leaves Candida. She can’t stay there alone with Burdon.
I have come to ask if you will go to her.’

Miss Arnold was prompt in hospitality.

‘But she must come here! The room has just been spring-cleaned, and
Eliza shall put bottles in the bed.’

He really did feel grateful, and preoccupied as he was, he managed to
show it.

‘How frightfully good of you! But she doesn’t feel that she ought to
come away. I did say that when you knew we were engaged—you’ve been so
kind about everything—but she thinks she ought to be there. You see,
she comes in for everything now, and she feels responsible—she says it
would look like running away. But she ought to have someone with
her—like Miss Silver. Anna may have to go tomorrow, and you know how
people talk. If Miss Silver only would, nobody could say a word.’

Miss Silver had picked up her knitting. She said,

‘Certainly, Mr. Eversley, I will just go and pack my things.’

While he was driving her out to Underhill Stephen was a good deal more
explicit than he had thought it prudent to be in front of his Cousin
Louisa. What she heard from other sources was beyond his control, but
Miss Olivia’s monstrous accusation would not reach her through him. With
Miss Silver there could be no concealments.

‘She has gone mad of course. I suppose it’s the shock or something, but
she actually accuses Candida of Miss Cara’s death. You see, the police
don’t think it’s an accident, and Miss Olivia is pretending to believe
that Candida is in some way responsible. That is why she won’t stay in
the house. And honestly, I’m thankful to feel that she isn’t there. If
she is insane enough to think that Candida would harm Miss Cara, she is
quite mad enough to be dangerous herself.’

Miss Silver said in a very composed voice,

‘Will you tell me just what happened, Mr. Eversley?’

‘That’s just it—I don’t know—nobody seems to. The maid, Anna, found
Miss Cara lying at the foot of the stairs at seven o’clock this morning.
The back of her head was injured, and she had been dead for some time.
But she was lying on her face. Her own doctor and the police surgeon
both say that she couldn’t have moved after an injury like that, and
that it couldn’t have been caused by the fall. Miss Olivia is saying
that Candida pushed her over the stairs, but quite apart from its being
an insanely wicked thing to say, it makes nonsense in the face of the
medical evidence. That is really all I know. I gather there had been
rows, one with Candida and one with Derek Burdon, but she didn’t want to
talk about it on the telephone.’

Miss Silver inclined her head in approval.

‘It is always better to say too little than too much.’




                          Chapter Twenty-eight


Miss Silver had seen Candida Sayle across the drawing-room at the
Deanery, her eyes bright, her colour high and pure. She had met her when
the Miss Benevents brought her up to be introduced to Louisa Arnold, and
she had admired the tone of her voice and her warm response to what
Louisa had to say about her grandmother, the earlier Candida after whom
she had been named. She took an interest in girls, and she had thought
Candida Sayle a very charming one. She saw her now in the black dress
which she had worn for Barbara, the bright colour all gone, the eyes
with a look of strain that was painful to see. But the breeding held.
Her thanks to Miss Silver for coming, her welcome, were all that the
most exacting standard could demand.

The comfortable bedroom that had been prepared was next to her own. The
bed, Miss Silver was glad to observe, was quite modern, and it was being
warmed by two hot water-bottles. A small electric fire had been lighted.
Her experience of country houses had not encouraged any great hope of
such attentions, and while perfectly ready to do without them in the
cause of duty, it was pleasant to find that they had been provided.

The evening passed as such evenings do. There was a meal prepared by
Anna. There was conversation, supplied mainly by Miss Silver herself,
and by Derek Burdon. Stephen had returned to Retley, Miss Silver
applauding the good taste which dictated this course of action.
Underhill might now have passed to Candida Sayle, but it was not for him
or for her to obtrude that fact. Since Stephen had not been received
there as a visitor by the Miss Benevents, both tact and breeding
suggested that he should not immediately avail himself of so tragic a
change in their circumstances.

Later Miss Silver had an opportunity of talking to Anna Rossi and to
Derek Burdon. Both appeared to be more than willing. To Anna, her face
swollen and her eyes red with weeping, it was an obvious relief to pour
out everything she knew. There was no Miss Olivia there to check her, no
Joseph to fix her with the look she so much resented or to say as he so
often did, ‘Anna, you talk too much.’ After all, one had been given a
tongue to use, and when terrible things happened, what was there to do
except to let the tears spill out of your eyes and the words out of your
mouth? If you did not weep, if you did not speak, the very heart dried
up in you and you might as well be dead. The tears gushed afresh as she
imparted these views to the little visiting lady who was so sympathetic,
and who had come to take care of Miss Candida.

Derek also obliged with every appearance of frankness. Talking had never
presented any difficulties to him, and like so many other people he
found Miss Maud Silver quite extraordinarily easy to talk to. She
listened, she made sympathetic reply, she maintained an interested and
encouraging manner.

The opportunity for a conversation with Candida Sayle came when they
went upstairs together at the end of the evening. To Candida it seemed
as if the hours of that day had become lengthened out like shadows seen
at sunset, until the time before she knew that Miss Cara was dead
appeared to be indefinitely removed from this moment when she went with
Miss Silver into her room and hoped that she had everything she wanted.
Any hostess to any guest—But Miss Silver’s response was not quite that
of any guest to any hostess. She laid a hand on Candida’s arm and said
in her kindest voice,

‘Oh, yes, indeed. But I am just wondering whether you are too tired to
give me the opportunity of talking to you for a little.’

Colour came into Candida’s face. She had a quick realisation that the
pressure of her own thoughts was no longer to be endured. With Stephen
gone, there was no one to whom she could unburden herself—unless it was
to this stranger. She said,

‘No, no, of course not. It was so very good of you to come. I wouldn’t
have asked you, but Stephen just did it. He said I couldn’t stay here
alone—it would make talk. You see, none of us knew what Aunt Olivia was
going to do until she had done it. At least Joseph and Anna must have
known, but she kept Anna in her room packing up her things, and she took
Joseph with her. It wasn’t until after five o’clock that we knew she had
gone. Joseph took the cases down. Then he brought the car round to the
side door and picked her up. Anna had been forbidden to say anything
until they had gone. I didn’t know what I ought to do. If Aunt Olivia
felt she couldn’t stay on in the same house as me, then I was the one
who ought to have gone. I tried to get on to Stephen, but he wasn’t
back. Derek said he wouldn’t stay if I went. You see, Aunt Olivia was
saying all sorts of things about both of us, and there are a lot of
valuable things in the house. He said we ought to ring up the police and
ask them what to do about it, so we did, and the Inspector said I ought
to stay. And then I got on to Stephen, and he said he would ask you to
come.’

Miss Silver had seated herself. Candida took the chair on the other side
of the fire and leaned forward.

‘Stephen says you know a good deal already—about my aunts, and Alan
Thompson, and everything. It all seems to go a long way back.’

Miss Silver had taken up her knitting. A grey stocking depended from the
needles. It was the last of the set, and it was nearly finished. She
said,

‘It is always difficult to know where things begin. There are causes
which lie a very long way back. There are jealousies, resentments,
hatreds, which have their roots in the remote past.’

Something in Candida answered this. It was like the string of a musical
instrument which trembles in response to a distant note. She said,
‘Yes,’ and found what so many had found, that it was easier to talk to
Miss Silver than it was to hold things back. She told her about Barbara,
about coming here to stay, about meeting Stephen again—‘You know, he
really did save my life once long ago.’ And so on, through the time of
her visit down to the last few days.

Miss Silver sat there and knitted. Sometimes she asked a question, but
for the most part she was silent. Inspector Frank Abbott of Scotland
Yard, a devoted admirer, has said of her that ‘she knows people’. He has
also observed that as far as she is concerned the human race is
glass-fronted—‘She sees right through them.’ But then it is, of course,
notorious that he sometimes indulges himself in an extravagant way of
speaking. Certainly it was not only Candida’s words which received
attention, but every change in her expression, every inflection of her
voice, every variation in the manner in which certain names were
pronounced were subjected to the same clear scrutiny.

The scene outside Miss Cara’s door after the return from the Deanery
party was gone over with the closest interest. Candida spoke quite
steadily.

‘Anna says Aunt Olivia won’t ever let anyone talk about Aunt Cara being
ill, but I didn’t know that. I really did think she was ill, and I was
worried, and I said so. That was when she—struck me.’

Miss Silver had not been unaware of the slight remaining traces of that
blow. She said, ‘Dear me!’

Candida went on.

‘She hates me, you know, but even so, I think she must be mad. She has
told Inspector Rock that she struck me because I said Aunt Cara was old
and would die soon anyhow. She must be mad to say a thing like that,
even if she does hate me.’

‘Why should she hate you, my dear?’

‘Because of Underhill and the money. Aunt Cara told me about a dreadful
thing she said when her sister Candida died—she was my grandmother, and
I was called after her. She died about the same time as their father,
and when the lawyer told Aunt Olivia that my grandmother’s children
would have everything after Aunt Cara she said that Candida was dead and
she hoped her children would die too, and then she would come into her
own.’

‘That was a dreadful thing to say.’

‘Aunt Cara cried about it. You know, they looked so much alike, but they
weren’t really. Aunt Cara was just a frightened little thing—she had
been bullied all her life. But she was kind, and deep down inside her
she wanted someone to be fond of. She was dreadfully unhappy about Alan
Thompson. You know about him, don’t you?’

Miss Silver might have said a good deal upon this point, but she
contented herself with a simple, ‘Yes.’

Candida went on telling her things—Nellie waking up with a cold hand
touching her face and something that went crying through the room.

‘And she wouldn’t stay after that. She went in with Anna for the night,
and she was off in the morning. But it was only poor Aunt Cara walking
in her sleep—I’m sure about that. I asked Anna, but she wouldn’t really
say. Sometimes she talks a lot—sometimes she won’t talk at all. When
she won’t talk, it’s because there is something she is afraid about. She
really is afraid of Aunt Olivia, you know, even after being with her all
these years. The last thing she wanted was for Nellie to go, but she was
afraid of telling her that the crying thing was just Aunt Cara wandering
about in an unhappy dream.’

Miss Silver’s needles moved rhythmically. She wore the dark blue
crêpe-de-chine and her bog-oak brooch in the form of a rose with an
Irish pearl at its heart. Her small, neat features expressed a high
degree of interest. Candida no longer found it possible to think of her
as a stranger. She imparted a sense of kindness, security and common
sense not often to be found outside the family circle. The frankness of
speech which is natural there seemed natural now. The strain which the
day had brought was relaxed. It was quite easy to tell her things. She
went on.

‘You know, I think the reason Anna was afraid was that she knew Nellie
had locked her door, so if Aunt Cara had come in, it must have been by
some other way. The walls in the old part of the house are very thick. I
think there may be passages, and that Aunt Olivia would be very angry if
anyone got to know about them. I know there is one in my room.’

If Miss Silver was startled she did not allow it to appear. She went on
knitting as she enquired,

‘And how do you know that?’

‘Someone came through my room in the middle of the night. I saw a crack
of light where the bookcase is. There’s a door there, but I haven’t been
able to find out how to open it. When I saw the light I pretended to be
asleep—it was rather startling, you know—and someone came through the
room and out by the door.’

‘Was it Miss Cara?’

‘I don’t know. Sometimes I think it was, and sometimes I think it
couldn’t have been—because of my being so frightened. I was, you know.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘It was quite a startling occurrence.’

Candida flushed.

‘It was horrid,’ she said. ‘But if it had been Aunt Cara, I don’t think
I should have minded like I did. And whoever it was wasn’t
sleep-walking. It had a torch.’

Miss Silver looked a mild enquiry.

‘You do not say she.’

Candida’s colour brightened.

‘I thought about its being Joseph, and that made me so angry that I went
after it. But I was too late—whoever it was had gone.’

Miss Silver said in a thoughtful voice,

‘Why should anyone who was not sleep-walking have taken the risk of
passing through your room?’

‘I wondered if they knew just where the passage would come out. I
thought if it was someone who was exploring—’

Miss Silver inclined her head.

‘Yes, it might have been that way.’

There was a little pause before Candida spoke again.

‘I can’t help wondering about Aunt Cara—whether she was walking in her
sleep when she fell. She might have been. You know, I don’t believe she
would have been wandering about in the dark by herself if she had known
what she was doing. The storm was so loud, and I think she would have
been frightened. I did think she might be frightened. That is why I went
along to her room.’

‘When was that?’

‘I didn’t look at the time. The wind was coming in those great noisy
gusts. I thought Aunt Cara would be frightened, and I went along to her
room.’

‘Did you go in?’

‘Not really. I didn’t want to wake her. I just stood there and listened.
Of course the wind was too loud for me to hear anything, but I had put
on the light at the end of the passage, and I thought if she was awake
she would see me standing there. When I was sure that she must be asleep
I shut the door and came away.’

Miss Silver said, ‘Sure?’ on an enquiring note. Her eyes were on
Candida’s face. She saw a look of trouble cross it. It led her to
amplify the question.

‘You were sure then that Miss Cara was asleep. Are you so sure about it
now? Can you even be sure that she was in her room when you stood there
looking in?’

The hand that was lying in Candida’s lap closed hard upon itself. She
was back in the half-lit passage with the cold of the door-sill under
her bare feet, and she was looking into a dark room with the drone of
the wind in her ears. The room was perfectly dark, the curtains were
closely drawn. She couldn’t see the bed, or the big mahogany wardrobe,
or the washstand with its marble top. She couldn’t see anything at all.
She said in a stumbling voice,

‘No—I’m not—sure—’

There was a silence. In the end Candida went on.

‘Miss Silver, the Inspector says she wasn’t killed by falling down the
stairs.’ A shudder went over her. ‘You see, she was lying on her face,
but it was the back of her head—’ She broke off, struggling for
composure. ‘If she didn’t fall on the stairs, where did she fall—and
how? He says someone must have moved her.’ Her voice dropped to a
whisper. ‘There was dust on her slippers, and a cobweb on the tassel of
her dressing-gown—I saw Anna brushing it off.’

Miss Silver spoke quickly.

‘She ought not to have done that.’

‘I don’t think she was thinking about what she did. She was crying. I
think it was just that she wanted to do something for Aunt Cara. You
know, when anything has happened like that, you _don’t_ think. I didn’t
myself—not till afterwards. Then, when the Inspector said she must have
been moved, I remembered the cobweb and the dust—and I wondered—about
the passages—whether she went into them and fell—and got hurt. You
see, there are stories. Aunt Olivia told me about its being unlucky to
touch the Benevent Treasure. There was James Benevent in the eighteenth
century—he was going to sell some of it. They said he was thrown from
his horse at his own front door. His head was dreadfully injured and he
died. A long time afterwards his grandson, Guy Benevent, was going to
take some of the treasure. He was found quite near the house with his
head broken. They said it was footpads. I don’t know why Aunt Olivia
told me all this, but she did. And when Derek and I were going through
some of the old papers—we were supposed to be doing a family
history—there was a rhyme:

                         ‘ “Touch not nor try,
                         Sell not nor buy,
                         Give not nor take,
                         For dear life’s sake.”

‘So when I saw Aunt Cara, and the dust and cobweb, I wondered whether
she had been looking—for the treasure.’

Miss Silver looked very grave indeed. She even stopped knitting for a
moment.

‘Did you tell the Inspector?’

‘No, I didn’t. He didn’t ask me anything like that.’




                          Chapter Twenty-nine


Miss Silver did not feel called upon to make any comment. At the moment
her connection with the case might be described as tenuous. Her
professional assistance had been solicited by Stephen Eversley, but more
in the capacity of a chaperone for Candida Sayle than as a private
enquiry agent. He was, however, understandably disturbed by Miss
Olivia’s unbalanced accusation and anxious to provide Candida with what
protection he could. In the circumstances, he could not himself remain
at Underhill. So she was there as it were on guard, her position
delicate, the scope of her activities quite undefined. So much for
Stephen Eversley and Candida Sayle. There was also the fact that Mr.
Puncheon had enlisted her services in connection with the disappearance
of his stepson Alan Thompson. The link between the two cases was the
link between Miss Cara and a young man whom she had loaded with benefits
and had even planned to marry. His disappearance had broken her heart.
Was it for him that she sought when she walked in the old house at
night? Did she walk waking, or sleeping—by known or by unknown ways?
And where in this well-kept house had she picked up dust on her slippers
and a cobweb on the tassel of her dressing-gown? Miss Silver had been
shown over the house. She had traversed a bewildering maze of passages,
had looked into rooms used and unused. Everywhere there was neatness and
order—polished floors and shining furniture—a smell of beeswax and
turpentine before which any spider would have retired—not a speck of
dust. What Anna had brushed away could not have come from any of these
ordered places.

This old house had its secrets—and kept them. What was it that Cara
Benevent went looking for, and by what hidden ways? And what was it that
she had found? Death certainly. But death by accident—or by some sudden
blow in the dark? And whose hands had lifted and carried her to where
she was found at the foot of the stairs?

Miss Silver knitted steadily. As she turned the heel of Johnny Burkett’s
stocking she went over the people who had been in the house that night.

Joseph Rossi and Anna, his wife. Old trusted servants—what motive could
either of them have? A legacy? Perhaps—murder has been done for such a
thing before now. Forty years service in the one case, nearly twenty in
the other. Strange things move beneath the surface of the years—an old
resentment, a grudge growing slowly out of sight—envy, malice and all
uncharitableness? People do not always love one another because they
have lived for a long time in the same house. Familiarity may breed
hatred.

Derek Burdon. A pleasant, likeable young man—but pleasant, likeable
young men have faced a capital charge before now. She recalled what she
knew about him. He had succeeded Alan Thompson as the Miss Benevents’
protegé—an easy life—almost nominal duties—money in his pocket. And
then a sudden break. He had been quite frank about it himself. The Miss
Benevents wanted him to marry Candida, and it didn’t suit either of
them. She was engaged to Stephen Eversley, and he was engaged to Jenny
Rainsford. He had become quite eager about his plans—‘The old chap she
works for wants to retire. He has got a small garage business. It’s been
going downhill a bit, but it can be worked up again. I do know something
about cars, and of course Jenny has the whole thing at her fingers’
ends. There’s a house too, and we were planning to take it over. Well,
yesterday morning it all came out, and there was a most frightful row.
Not Miss Cara—she just sat there and hated every minute of it. But Miss
Olivia went right off the deep end. She does sometimes, you know, and
all you can do is to get under cover and wait for her to come round
again. Only this time Miss Cara fainted. Joseph came in in the middle of
Miss Olivia telling me I had killed her, and of course he had to go and
tell the police what she’d said, so they’ve been asking me a whole lot
of questions about whether they were kicking me out, how much I stood to
lose if they were, and whether I was down for anything in Miss Cara’s
will.’

Miss Silver had looked at him in a very direct manner. ‘And are you?’
she said. Derek appeared shocked. ‘I haven’t the slightest idea. I’ve
never thought about it.’ That might have been true, or it might not.
There were people who did not think about those things. On the other
hand, there were people who thought about them a great deal, and a young
man who was getting married and taking over a run-down business would
certainly find a legacy very useful.

She went on to the next name on her list—Olivia Benevent. The sister
who had dominated Miss Cara since they were children. Louisa Arnold had
talked about her a good deal. What Louisa said about people was not as a
rule unkind, but she had had very little that was kind to say about Miss
Olivia. She emerged as a ruthless and vindictive woman imposing her will
upon the delicate elder sister, upon her father when he fell into ill
health—in fact upon anyone who would allow himself to be dominated.
‘You know,’ Louisa had said, ‘I think that was partly why Cara was so
foolish about Alan Thompson. He was someone she could talk to, if you
know what I mean. He couldn’t take her part openly—he would have been
afraid to do that—but from something she said to me once I think he
used to back her up in private, and that it even got as far as her
complaining to him about Olivia. It would be such a relief, you know.
Why, sometimes she came very near doing it to me, so it shows she had
got it on her mind.’

Miss Silver went back to these words and thought about them gravely. Had
there come a moment when the delicate down-trodden sister had revolted
and provoked some frightful loss of control? There were some grounds for
supposing that a scene of this nature might have taken place. Miss
Cara’s heart had been set upon Alan Thompson, and she had lost him. Just
how he had been induced or forced to disappear was a mystery that had
never been cleared up. That he should have risked a paltry theft when a
few more days would have put him in a position to control Miss Cara’s
entire fortune was difficult to believe. He might at the eleventh hour
have recoiled from the prospect of an unnatural marriage. But had he?
Whatever the facts, to Miss Cara his disappearance was sheer tragedy.
Now, after three years, she was threatened with a second break in the
family circle. If she did not love Derek Burdon as she had loved Alan
Thompson he was still very dear to her, and Olivia was driving him out.
She had been so disturbed as to fall into a swoon. The last account of
her state of mind that evening came from Anna, who spoke of her as very
sad and crying all the time. She came to fetch Candida Sayle because she
thought she might comfort her poor Miss Cara, but when they reached her
door it was opened by Olivia Benevent. Anna’s description of the scene
sprang vividly to Miss Silver’s mind. Miss Olivia in her black wrap
tapping the floor with her foot and whispering fiercely, ‘She is not to
be disturbed! Go back to your room and stay there!’ And then the door
shut and locked in Candida’s face.

What had happened after that? No one knew except the woman who had shut
and locked the door. Alan Thompson gone, Derek Burdon going, and Candida
Sayle locked out. Had there been a scene between the sisters? There
might have been, and it might have ended suddenly, terribly, with some
act of violence. It was true that Olivia Benevent had everything to lose
by her sister’s death, but the woman who had struck her young niece in
the face, and had been so far carried beyond normal control as to accuse
her of murder, might have been betrayed into some dreadful passionate
act. The proverb which declares anger to be a brief madness presented
itself. There were still darker possibilities. She regarded them
steadily.

The last name to be considered was that of Candida Sayle. She gave it
the same scrupulously fair attention that she had given to the others.




                             Chapter Thirty


When she had said good night to Candida, Miss Silver went on sitting by
the fire for some time. As she passed in review all the circumstances of
the case, one point continually presented itself. However often she
attempted to relegate it to a position of very little importance, she
found that it persistently forced itself upon her attention. She would
be considering the question of who among the household at Underhill
could have lifted and carried Miss Cara to the place where she was
found, when, pushing in upon her thought, would come this apparently
irrelevant point. It cost her quite an effort to dismiss it and continue
her train of thought. Joseph or Anna could certainly have done the
lifting. Anna was a big woman, and Joseph though not tall was wiry. Miss
Cara would have been a light burden for either of them. Derek, of
course, could have done it with ease. Candida could have done it. But
what about Olivia Benevent? Could she, under whatever stress of fear
have dragged or carried her sister any distance? Miss Silver remembered
shaking hands with her at the Deanery party. The feeling of the hand
that had taken hers came back clearly. There had been no particular
pressure, just the touch of a small bony hand, hard and firm. There was
the suggestion of a bird’s claw, dry and cold to the touch. The two
sisters looked so much alike, but the touch of Miss Cara’s hand had been
soft and slack, just meeting her own and falling away. It occurred to
her that if Olivia Benevent chose to do a thing she would make it her
business to see that it was done, whereas Miss Cara would accept the
first discouragement.

She began to consider why Olivia should have left Underhill, and
immediately the point which she had been at pains to dismiss again
obtruded itself. It was not only the question of why she had left
Underhill, but of why she had taken Joseph with her. She was going to a
furnished house which was her own property. It had just been vacated,
and was presumably in perfect order. What she would require was someone
to cook for her, someone to wait upon her. Exactly how the service at
Underhill had been divided she was not perfectly clear, but Anna, even
in her present distracted state, was an extremely good cook. The meal of
which they had that evening partaken was sufficient proof of this, and
in the matter of personal attendance it would have seemed more likely,
and certainly more suitable, that she should be preferred to Joseph. Yet
it was Joseph who had been taken, and Anna who had been left.

It was some time before she rose and began her preparations for bed.
They culminated, as always, in the substitution of the strong net which
it was her practice to wear at night for the almost invisible one which
controlled the neatly curled fringe by day. This accomplished, the blue
dressing-gown trimmed with hand-made crochet was hung over the back of a
convenient chair, the black felt slippers with their blue tufts placed
side-by-side below, the bedside lamp switched on, the overhead light
extinguished. It was her habit to read a passage of Scripture before she
slept. She did so now. In the psalm of her selection there occurred a
verse which she could not help considering extremely apposite—chiming
in with her thoughts and indicating the firmness of her trust in what
she called Providence. It ran:

‘When the wicked, even my enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my
flesh, they stumbled and fell.’

She read on, she closed the book, and laid it down. She switched off the
bedside light and passed into the calm and healthful slumber to which
she was accustomed.

In three other rooms the occupants slept or waked. Derek Burdon was one
of those who slept. There was a weight upon his heart, upon his spirits.
He had found himself unable to throw it off. The long, accustomed ease
of his life at Underhill had been shattered. It had just gone on from
one day to another without thought and without care. There was no need
to exert himself, to plan, to struggle, to wonder what was going to
happen next. Instead, there was money in his pocket and the ground
agreeably firm beneath his feet. To retain all this he had only to be
himself—to smile and make himself agreeable, to play the piano, to
drive the car, to be the adopted nephew of two kind old dears. And now
catastrophe—the sudden slash of violence cutting across the
picture—Miss Cara horribly dead, Miss Olivia horribly changed. He had
not seen that side of her before, and it shook him. Old ladies might be
crotchety and particular—it was part of the game to soothe them down
and keep them happy. But the naked fury with which Olivia Benevent had
turned upon him was something quite beyond him to understand. It was as
if she had stripped herself to the very bones. It was a thing quite out
of nature. In its way it shocked him even more than the fact that Miss
Cara was dead. There was a weight upon him, and it went down into his
sleep and stayed there.

Anna had knelt and prayed. The tears ran down—words broke from her.
Sometimes she leaned her forehead on the hands which clasped one
another, straining. Sometimes she got up from her knees and paced the
room, her lips moving, her breast heaving with sobs. She wore a very
full cotton nightgown made from an ancestral pattern. There must have
been seven or eight yards of stuff in it. It fell about her in classic
folds, darkening the olive tint of her skin, whilst over all there
floated the nimbus of her wild white hair. There came a time when she
went to her bed and fell upon it, weeping into the pillow.

In the end she slept, and stood at the edge of a dream looking in upon
it. Waking or sleeping, what she saw was the thing which she most feared
to see. If she had been awake she could have shut her eyes and turned
her head. She could have bidden her feet to carry her away from it. Her
very terror would have speeded them. She would have run as you run when
death is at your heels. But she was asleep. Her feet would not run, and
her eyes would not close. And no good if they did, because the picture
was there in her mind. You cannot close your eyes to your own thoughts,
nor, however swiftly you run, can you out-distance them. She stood and
looked upon her dream with open eyes and with a shrinking heart.

Candida had laid down her burden. The interminable hours of the day were
done. Nobody and nothing could make her live them over again. They were
gone, and they would not come back. She had talked the weight of them
from her heart. It was just as if she had been straining every nerve to
climb a hill and now she had come to the place where the path led down
again. All she had to do was to set her feet upon it and let it take her
where it would. She was almost too tired to think.

She must undress. Why? There was a glass of hot milk by the bedside.
Anna—how kind—She had hardly eaten anything all day. She took the
glass of milk in her hand and sat down by the fire. Drinking it was the
last thing she was to remember.




                           Chapter Thirty-one


The morning came, and with it Anna in a flowered wrapper, her lips still
swollen from yesterday’s weeping. She had slept uneasily and waked to a
new and burdened day. She moved with weighted limbs, the tray she
carried was heavy in her hand. She set it down, answered gravely when
Miss Silver spoke to her, and went on her way. It took her to the room
next door, where Candida should be sleeping, but when she knocked there
was no answer. She had in one hand the cup of tea which she had taken
from Miss Silver’s tray. With the other she knocked again, after which
she turned the handle and went in.

With her first step across the threshold the cup tilted and fell. She
stood there, holding the saucer in a rigid grip and staring, not at the
broken cup and the pool of tea which spread from it, but at the empty
ordered room. The bed was made, and it had not been slept in. As it was
now, so it had been when her shaking hands had left it at some time
during the dreadful hours of yesterday morning. She remembered that the
counterpane had fallen a little crooked at the head, and that she had
looked back at it from the doorway and thought, ‘What does it matter?
Miss Cara is dead.’ She looked at it now, and saw it was as it had been
then. Her eyes moved slowly from the bed to the window, to the bookcase,
the hearth, the dressing-table. There was something there—a piece of
paper with a line of writing on it. She crossed the room swiftly and set
the saucer down. The hand that had held it lifted the paper. The writing
was smudged and blotted—a mere scrawl. It ran:

‘Goodbye. I can’t go on.’

Anna continued to look at it until the words began to run into one
another. Then she went back by the way that she had come.

This time she did not knock at Miss Silver’s door. She wrenched at the
handle and pushed it like a blind woman feeling her way. Miss Silver saw
her come. She set down her cup upon the tray and took the paper which
was thrust at her.

Anna had begun to shake and to weep again.

‘She is gone! First the one, and then the other! Miss Cara first, and
then Miss Candida! But why—oh, _Dio mio_, why!’

Miss Silver looked gravely at the paper with its shaky scrawl.

‘Is this Miss Sayle’s writing?’

Anna threw up her hands.

‘How do I know?’

‘But you must have seen it. Pray sit down and compose yourself. You must
have seen Miss Sayle’s writing.’

‘How should I?’ sobbed Anna. ‘Miss Olivia writes to her—she writes
back—it is one letter among all the letters that come! I do not look at
them, I do not notice them, I do not know which is from Miss Candida! I
only know that she was here, and that she is gone, and that God knows
what has become of her, or what is to become of us all!’

Miss Silver was getting out of bed, reaching for the blue dressing-gown,
putting on the black felt slippers. She came into Candida’s room with
Anna following her, sobbing and talking all the time.

‘The bed! You see no one has slept there! It is the way I leave it! Last
night Miss Candida says to me she will turn down your bed and hers and
she will put in the hot water-bottles. “You have enough to do without
that,” she says. And it is true what she says—there is enough for the
one pair of hands! She is so good, Miss Candida—so kind! And Mr. Derek
too! He comes out last night, and he says, “Let me help you with the
washing-up.” I say, “No, no—Miss Olivia would not like it,” and he
says, “Darling, she won’t know.” It is the way they have, these young
people, to call everyone darling. It means nothing, but he says it as if
he means it, and he stays until everything is finished. He and Miss
Candida, they are kind. Why should these things happen?’

Miss Silver let the words go by her.

She went to the bed and turned back the eiderdown. There had been a hot
water-bottle in her own bed last night. There was one in this bed now.
Does a girl who is going to run away put a hot water-bottle in her bed?
She went to and fro in the room. In the end she opened the wardrobe door
and spoke.

‘Anna, come here. That is the dress she wore last night, is it not?’

The black dress trailed from its hanger, one shoulder slipping so that
it hung askew. Anna caught her breath.

‘Yes—yes—that is what she wore—my poor Miss Candida!’

‘Then what is missing?’

‘The grey coat and skirt—the grey coat—that is what she would wear if
she went out. And the little grey hat—it would be in the drawer. . . .
No, she has taken it! And the handbag—she has taken that too! And the
outdoor shoes—see, here are the ones she wore last night—she would not
go out in these! _Dio mio!_ Where has she gone, and why?’

Miss Silver said,

‘If she has gone, then one of the doors would be unlocked, or a window.
Wake Mr. Derek and get him to come down with you and try them all whilst
I dress.’

But when Anna was gone Miss Silver did not proceed to her own room
immediately. She closed the door and then went over to the bookcase and
examined it. Strictly speaking, it was not a bookcase at all but a set
of shelves fitted into the recess between the fireplace and the wall
which took the windows. The shelves ran from the floor to within a
couple of feet from the ceiling. A strip of carved wood framed them on
either side, and a simulated cornice decorated the top.

Miss Silver stood looking at the shelves. Taking out some of the books,
she discovered that there was a wooden backing. Candida Sayle had spoken
of waking in the night and seeing first a streak of light, and then the
opening of a door in this recess. Shelves with a wooden backing could be
contrived to mask a door. Candida might have dreamed of that opening
door. She took these two possibilities with her to her own room.

Anna’s return with Derek Burdon found her fully dressed, her hair in
neatly plaited coils behind and netted fringe in front. She wore the
olive-green cashmere now relegated to morning use, and the warm fluffy
scarf, so comfortable, so cosy, which had been her niece Ethel’s present
to her at Christmas. Shading as it did from lilac to purple, she
considered it not only very pleasing in itself but a delicate tribute to
the fact that she was now in a house of mourning.

At the sound of approaching footsteps she made haste to open the door.
Derek Burdon was in his dressing-gown, an ornate affair which emphasised
his pallor. It appeared that the side door by which Miss Olivia had left
was not only unlocked but was actually standing ajar. A handkerchief
picked up in the courtyard just outside was soaked by the rain which had
fallen during the night. Anna identified it as one of a set embroidered
by Barbara Sayle during her long illness. It bore in one corner a finely
worked capital ‘C’.

Invited to examine the note which had been found in Candida’s room,
Derek stared at the uneven writing and said that, so far as he could
tell, it would be hers.

Miss Silver looked at him with grave enquiry.

‘You were working with her upon the family papers. You must have seen
her writing.’

‘Well, yes, I have—yes, of course—but not so very much of it. We were
mostly sorting—we hadn’t really got to the writing stage. There never
seemed to be a lot of time. I say, Miss Silver—you don’t really
think—she has—gone away?’

She said, ‘It is too soon to make up our minds about that. What I must
do at once is to ring up Mr. Eversley.’

Stephen picked up the receiver and heard her voice. He said, ‘Miss
Silver—’ And then she was saying,

‘Mr. Eversley, can you come out here at once?’

He said quickly, ‘Is anything wrong?’

‘There has been a development. I would like to see you.’

‘Is there anything wrong? Not Candida—’

The primness of her tone was accentuated.

‘I would rather not say any more over the telephone. I would be glad to
see you as soon as possible.’

She rang off. He was left in a state of mounting apprehension.

Miss Silver was half way to the door, when the bell rang again. About to
lift the receiver, she changed her mind. She had spoken to Stephen from
the study. It occurred to her that his second call might more suitably
be answered by Anna. Proceeding to the door, she opened it, and at a
glance there Anna was, at no distance at all, her hands clasped at her
breast, her whole attitude that of one who strains to listen. With her
usual calm, Miss Silver said,

‘Will you see who it is?’ and as Anna came forward, she turned and
followed her into the room. Standing beside the instrument she could not
only hear Anna’s shaky, ‘Who is there?’ but what was unmistakably Olivia
Benevent’s voice in reply. It was quite clear and sharp, and it said,

‘Is that you, Anna?’

‘Yes—yes—’

‘Why do you speak like that? Is anything the matter? You should really
pull yourself together! I am ringing up to say that I find I have left a
great many things behind me. Joseph will drive me over during the
morning, and you had better be ready to come back with us. Have your own
things packed by the time I come, and then you can see about mine. I do
not wish to see either Mr. Derek or Miss Sayle—you will tell them so!
They must respect my wish to be alone whilst I am preparing to leave
Underhill. It has been my home during the whole of my life, and—’ The
hard voice checked for a moment and then went on again. ‘I do not
suppose that I shall ever see it again. You will make them understand
that I am not to be intruded upon!’

The voice ceased. The audience was over. A little click upon the line
announced that the connection had been broken. Anna’s hands were shaking
so much that the receiver slipped from them and fell.




                           Chapter Thirty-two


In real life there is no ringing down the curtain between the acts.
There are moments when such an interval would be more than welcome, but
there is, there can be, no such relief. Beds must be made, meals must be
prepared, and however reluctantly, some effort must be made to partake
of them. Miss Silver’s invariable common sense imposed this point of
view. Rooms were aired and tidied, coffee was made and a meal produced.
By the time that Stephen Eversley arrived everyone was steadier.

It was Miss Silver who told him what had happened. She showed him
Candida’s note and asked him if he could identify the writing, only to
hear that he had never seen it.

‘We met practically every day.’ He spoke with stiff lips, his face grey
and rigid as he remembered those meetings. ‘We never wrote—we never had
to. What does Derek say?’

‘He says it might be hers. He has only seen an occasional note, made
when they were working on the family papers, and mostly in pencil.’

‘Miss Silver, you saw her, you talked to her. She didn’t say anything to
make you think she meant to go away?’

She let her thoughts go back to that conversation by the fire. Could she
truthfully say that there had been nothing to justify the supposition
that Candida might have been overcome by a sudden impulse to leave
Underhill? She had received a severe shock, a monstrous accusation had
been brought against her. Was it probable or even possible that her
common sense and self-control had given way and left her at the mercy of
a blind instinct for flight? Most unwise, most ill-judged, was Miss
Silver’s mental comment. But when did panic regard either judgment or
wisdom?

Stephen controlled himself. He could see that she was thinking. He must
give her time. When at last she spoke, it was with gravity and kindness.

‘We sat by my bedroom fire and she talked to me for quite a long time.
She told me that the Miss Benevents had been very kind until the night
of the Deanery party when Miss Olivia struck her. It was while she was
talking about this incident that she said, “I didn’t see how I could
stay. I meant to leave in the morning as soon as I was dressed, but Anna
persuaded me not to. She said it was just Aunt Olivia losing her
temper—she was like that, and I wouldn’t hear any more about it. She
said Aunt Cara would miss me.” And then she caught her breath and said,
“Oh, why did I listen to her—why didn’t I go?” ’

‘She said that?’

Miss Silver inclined her head.

‘I have given you her exact words.’

‘Was there anything else?’

‘I do not think so, except that she spoke of Underhill with distaste.
She said it was an old house, and she supposed there must have been
happy people in it from time to time, but that Miss Olivia only seemed
to remember the ones who had come to a violent end.’

‘What did she mean by that?’

‘You have heard of the Benevent Treasure?’ Then, as he nodded, ‘There
seems to have been some belief that it was unlucky to handle it. The two
last Benevents to do so did die suddenly and violently.’

‘How?’

‘One was thrown from his horse at his own front door. He received a bad
head injury and never recovered consciousness. The other, his grandson,
was supposed to have been set upon by footpads. He also received an
injury to his head.’

Stephen’s eyes met hers with a look of horror.

‘What do you mean?’

‘I am repeating what was said to me. I asked no questions, because I did
not think the moment a suitable one. Nor do I think that this is a
moment to explore its possibilities. What we must do, and that without
delay, is to effect an entrance into the passages which Candida believed
to exist between the walls in the old part of the house.’

‘Passages!’

‘She believed that one of them opened into her room. She told me she had
waked in the night to see a streak of light in the recess between the
fireplace and the window. There are shelves there, and from her
description they may conceal a door. She spoke of someone coming through
the room from that direction with a torch held low. It may have been a
dream, but it may not. If this door exists, we must locate it without
delay. Miss Olivia has just rung up to say that she will be coming over
to fetch the rest of her things. If she arrives and Candida is still
absent, neither you nor I will be in a position to conduct a search. I
think we should lose no time.’

But time was not to be permitted them. They had hardly reached Candida’s
room, and Stephen had done no more than take a look at the book-lined
recess, when Derek Burdon came knocking at the door.

‘Look here,’ he said, ‘Miss Olivia has just arrived. I was at my window
and I saw Joseph drive up. Did you know she was coming over?’

Miss Silver said, ‘Dear me!’ It was the strongest expression she
permitted herself. It appeared to be surprised from her, for she made
haste to tone it down by saying, ‘Yes, she rang up just now. She must
have come straight from the telephone. She spoke to Anna and told her
that she would be fetching the rest of her things and taking her back.’

Derek looked relieved.

‘Then we just keep out of the way, don’t you think? By the by, Mrs. Bell
hasn’t turned up—the daily, you know. Anna says she wasn’t too keen
about stopping yesterday. She was going on about getting mixed up with
the police and not liking it. So if Anna is going too, it puts us in a
bit of a spot, doesn’t it?’

Miss Silver had opened her lips to speak, when a sound reached them from
the passage. Derek had left the door open, and what they all heard was
the sound of footsteps. A moment later Olivia Benevent stood upon the
threshold looking in. She was in black from head to foot. A deep
mourning veil was thrown back. It framed the sallow face and fell in
folds about her shoulders. Her black eyes looked from one to the other
in a scornful question. The brows above them were arched as if in
surprise. She took her time before she spoke.

‘Derek—you are still here? I imagined that you were leaving us. . . .
Miss Silver, is it not? Louisa Arnold introduced you, I believe. I
hardly expected to meet you here. . . . And Mr. Eversley—I hoped we had
made it quite clear that we did not propose to employ you further.’

It was Miss Silver who answered her. She said with quiet composure,

‘I came last night, Miss Benevent, on Miss Sayle’s invitation. It did
not seem right to her friends that she should be here without an older
woman to countenance her.’

Her calm look met Miss Olivia’s insolent one without giving way to it.

Miss Benevent came a step into the room.

‘In view of what Anna has just told me my plans are altered. Since
Candida has seen fit to leave Underhill, there is no occasion for me to
do so. I have sent Joseph to fetch what I took away with me. As he and
Anna will be here and Mrs. Bell will doubtless return, I shall be well
provided with household help and need make no demands upon Miss Silver.
As for you, Mr. Eversley, I hope I have made myself clear. Your services
are not required.’

Thoughts presented themselves to Miss Silver’s mind. The legal position
was known to Miss Benevent. She had left Underhill in that knowledge.
The house and its contents had passed to Candida Sayle. If she now
returned, what gave her the assurance that the situation had changed?
What supported her in the assumption that the field was clear before
her, and that Candida would not return? Only such an assumption would
warrant the tone she was now adopting. She said with something more than
her usual dignity,

‘In all the circumstances, I think you must agree the police should be
informed that Miss Sayle has disappeared.’

Stephen said, ‘Miss Silver—’

Olivia Benevent gave a short laugh.

‘And do you suppose she will thank you for that? It is obvious that Mr.
Eversley does not think so. Ring them up by all means if you think it
wise. I imagine they will arrive at the same conclusion that I do
myself. I have made no secret of the fact that I believe the girl to be
responsible for my sister’s death. Anna tells me that she left a note
which practically amounts to a confession—“I can’t go on. Goodbye” or
some such matter. I am afraid I shall be obliged to think very poorly of
your intelligence if you do not conclude, as I do, that she has felt
unable to brazen it out any longer. The police had been put on their
guard, I myself had accused her, and she has, quite simply, run away. If
you wish to use the telephone you can do so, but after that I must ask
you to leave the house.’

‘Miss Benevent—’

Stephen had got no further than that, when Miss Silver’s hand was laid
upon his arm. It was to him that she spoke.

‘I do not believe that any useful purpose will be served by continuing
this conversation.’ She addressed herself again to Miss Olivia. ‘I think
the police will wish to see those of us who spent the night here.
Neither I nor Mr. Eversley accept what you suggest with regard to Miss
Sayle.’

Derek Burdon had effaced himself. With Miss Olivia’s advance into the
room, he had edged his way towards the door. When Miss Silver and
Stephen emerged he was waiting for them.

Three miles away in Retley Inspector Rock was called to the telephone.




                          Chapter Thirty-three


Candida opened her eyes upon an even darkness. A momentary consciousness
of this darkness just touched her and was gone again. But next time it
came it reached the point at which it became thought.

Darkness—

Then, after an undefined interval, the thought again, and with it a
question.

It was quite, quite dark—why?

Time passed before she got any farther than that. Gradually the question
began to impress itself, to demand an answer. There wasn’t any light at
all—the darkness was absolute. Even in the deepest middle of the night
there is some shading, some thinning of the blackness, where a window
cuts the wall. Unless there are thick curtains tightly drawn. But she
never drew her curtains or shut the windows at night. She should have
been able to see two narrow oblongs hanging like pictures on the wall to
her left.

She became aware that she was lying on her back. If she wanted to see
the windows she must turn on to her left side. It wasn’t easy. Her body
didn’t feel as if it belonged to her. She made it obey, but looking as
far to the left as she could, there was still no break in the darkness,
no window in that impenetrable wall. The question in her mind had become
insistent. Feeling, sensation, consciousness flowed back, evenly now and
without those dizzy intervals when they had seemed to ebb.

The bed was very hard. She had lost her pillow. She put out her hand and
groped. It touched a cold, unyielding substance that was certainly not a
bed. It was cold—it was hard—it was damp.

It was stone.

She tried to sit up, but her head swam. At the third attempt she was on
her hands and knees. Her head ached, but it was steadier. Her hands
pressed down upon a stone floor. She pushed herself into a half-sitting
position, one hand still on the stone.

There had been a moment of awful fear, just there on the edge of
thought. Now it was gone. There was space over her. She was not closed
in. She wasn’t—_buried_. When she stretched her arm above her head
there was nothing there. Only darkness, only air. Nothing to prevent her
from getting to her feet.

She wasn’t quite ready for that. She stayed leaning on her hand.
Presently she sat right up and tried to think. The last thing she
remembered was drinking the glass of milk which Anna had put beside her
bed. After that nothing—just nothing at all. She put up a hand to her
throat and let it slide down again, touching, feeling. She had been
wearing her black dress, but she wasn’t wearing it now. But she hadn’t
undressed. What she was touching wasn’t a nightgown. There was a silk
shirt, and the lapel of a coat. Someone had taken off her dress and put
her into these clothes—her grey coat and skirt and the outdoor coat
that went with them. She was even wearing her little grey felt hat.

She sat and thought about this. She was in her outdoor things, but she
wasn’t out of doors. Why? It didn’t seem to make sense. She had on her
outdoor shoes. Why had she put them on? The answer came with astonishing
certainty, ‘I didn’t.’ Then, after a long strange pause, ‘Someone did.’

There really was no getting away from it. Someone had drugged the milk,
and changed her clothes, and brought her here. But why? The answer
forced its way—‘To get rid of me.’

She put her head in her hands and tried to think. To have sight and to
have no use for it—to batter against this wall of darkness and to feel
it just flow back again like air, like water, like fear itself! She
pressed her hands down close upon her eyelids and held them there. If
you did that, even in a lighted room you would not expect to see.

She got herself steady again and began gradually and methodically to
feel about her. She might be in a cellar, or in one of the passages. The
air was heavy and the floor damp. She had got to find out where she was,
and she had got to be careful. There might be some hole or some pit into
which she could fall, as poor Aunt Cara had done. Quick and clear there
came up the picture of Anna brushing away the dust from Miss Cara’s
slippers, the cobweb from the tassel of her dressing-gown. If it was in
such a place as this that she had come by the cobweb and the dust, then
it was in such a place as this that she had come by her death. But how
had she come to such a place at all? Of her own free will, or drugged as
Candida had been drugged?

She began to move cautiously on her hands and knees, feeling before her.
Almost at once she touched something smooth—first leather, and then a
metal clasp. Her handbag—her own handbag.

Of course if she was to disappear, her handbag must go with her. She
couldn’t be supposed to have run away in a thin black dress and indoor
shoes. She must be dressed for a journey, and she must wear a hat and
have a handbag with her. Was it poor sobbing Anna who had thought of all
these things? She couldn’t believe it. Yet Anna had acted a part before
now. She might have been pushed, threatened . . . She had no need to
think who might have threatened her. A voice in her own mind said quick
and clear, ‘She would never have hurt Aunt Cara.’ And like an echo
another answered it, ‘How do you know what anyone will do?’

People have just so much resistance and no more. Not everyone can endure
to the end. Anna had been conditioned by forty years of service—forty
years of bondage during which she had been driven by another will than
her own, a very hard and ruthless will.

These things did not come to Candida as logical, consecutive thoughts.
They were there, as the pictures are there on the walls of a room into
which you have strayed. You did not bring them into the room, but they
are there, and if you look that way they are most plainly to be seen.
The one she could see most plainly of all was the dark picture of Olivia
Benevent’s hatred.

She had stopped moving, her hand on the bag. Now she sat back and opened
it. The first things that she felt were a purse, a handkerchief. Her
hand went beyond them. It touched something cold. There, at the bottom
of the bag, fallen down by its own weight, was an electric torch.




                          Chapter Thirty-four


Inspector Rock sat looking at Miss Silver. As he was to remark to the
Chief Constable later, everything did seem to be piling up. The
post-mortem had proved that the injury which had caused Miss Cara
Benevent’s death was the result of a blow from a piece of rusty iron.
The rust had scaled off and there were unmistakable traces of it in the
wound. There could be no question at all but that it was murder. A
couple of men were going through the house room by room in search of
anything which could have been used as the weapon. The Superintendent
would have been here if he had not gone down with a sudden attack of
influenza. He himself was to report direct to the Chief Constable, and
meanwhile he was to exercise all possible vigilance, resource, and tact.
A short interview with Miss Olivia Benevent had left him with no
illusions as to the difficulty of combining these qualities. Old ladies
were tricky at the best of times, and single old ladies who hadn’t had
anyone to cross them for donkey’s years were the trickiest of the lot.
In his own family there had been a cousin of his mother’s, old Miss
Emily Wick, who was a caution. Said to have money in the bank, and a
proper Hitler in petticoats with all the relations saying, ‘Yes, Cousin
Emily’ when she said yes, and ‘No, Cousin Emily,’ when she said no. A
trial, that’s what she was, and a bee in her bonnet about the woman who
looked after her wanting to poison her for her money—‘But she won’t get
a penny.’ And as it turned out, nobody did, because she was living on an
annuity and there wasn’t even enough of it left to bury her. When Miss
Olivia Benevent sat there and went on about her niece having murdered
Miss Cara she put him strongly in mind of old Cousin Emily Wick. And now
here was Miss Candida Sayle gone off into the blue, and everyone saying
they hadn’t a notion how, or why, or where. All except Miss Olivia, who
stood there as if she had swallowed the poker and stuck to it that the
girl had run away because her conscience wouldn’t let her stay.

He sat and looked at Miss Silver, who up to now had been just an elderly
lady in the background. He gathered that she was a relative of Miss
Arnold’s, and that she had come over on the previous evening to keep
Candida Sayle company at Mr. Stephen Eversley’s request. Miss Arnold was
the daughter of old Canon Arnold, and as such beyond social criticism.
In fact the whole set-up was not only respectable but in the highest
degree select. His experienced glance found in Miss Silver a type with
which life in a cathedral town had made him familiar—elderly ladies who
sat on committees, took stalls in church bazaars, and engaged in a
hundred and one ecclesiastical activities. She was, it is true, of a
slightly earlier pattern, her manner more formal and her dress more out
of date.

Their interview, however, had not proceeded very far before he became
aware of a welcome difference. Where most of these ladies were apt to be
diffuse and flustered in making anything that resembled a statement,
Miss Maud Silver was both cool and succinct. She presented him with the
clearest possible picture of the previous evening and what had passed
between herself and Miss Sayle. He had left her to the last, and what
she said tallied perfectly with the statements made by Derek Burdon,
Stephen Eversley, and the maid Anna. When she had finished speaking he
regarded her with respect. She had stuck to the point, she had avoided
personal comment, and she had given him a strong impression of verbal
and factual accuracy. He found himself asking for what had been
withheld.

‘You came into the house last night without knowing any of these
people?’

She sat there very composedly in her olive-green cashmere and the shaded
woollen wrap, her hands folded in her lap, her feet placed neatly
side-by-side upon the study carpet. In the interests of accuracy she
made a slight correction.

‘I have some acquaintance with Mr. Eversley. Mr. Burdon and Miss Sayle
were introduced to me during a musical evening at the Deanery. I had no
more than a few formal words with either of them.’

‘And the Miss Benevents?’

‘I met them on the same occasion. My cousin Miss Arnold has known them
all her life.’

‘Was Miss Olivia Benevent here when you arrived last night?’

‘No. She had already left when Mr. Eversley rang me up.’

‘You knew that he and Miss Sayle were engaged?’

She gave a small discreet cough.

‘He came round to see myself and Miss Arnold, and I think I may say that
it was understood. Miss Arnold at once offered the hospitality of her
house.’

‘It was refused?’

‘In the absence of Miss Olivia Benevent Miss Sayle considered herself
responsible for the household at Underhill.’

‘And you came out here at once?’

‘As soon as I had packed a suit-case.’

‘Miss Silver, I am going to ask you what impression the household made
upon you. None of these people were really known to you—I should like
to hear how they struck you.’

As she returned his rather direct look he became aware that he really
did want to know what she thought about Candida Sayle, about Derek
Burdon, about Stephen Eversley, about Anna Rossi. He wondered whether
she was going to tell him. And then she was doing so.

‘I found Miss Sayle very frank and simple. Miss Cara’s death had
obviously been a great shock, and so had Miss Olivia’s accusation.’

‘Enough of a shock to frighten her into running away?’

‘I should not have said so. The first impact of the shock was wearing
off. She spoke naturally and simply of Miss Cara, who she said had been
very kind to her, and for whom she had, I thought, a good deal of
affection.’

He said, ‘That sort of thing can be put on, you know.’

She coughed again, this time on a note of reproof.

‘I was for some years engaged in the scholastic profession. I am
accustomed to young people. If one has experience, insincerity is not
difficult to detect.’

He found himself with a surprised conviction that it would be extremely
difficult to tell her a lie, and that if you did so it would be
immediately stripped to its bones. Others had, of course, had this
feeling before him, but he was not to know about that. He said,

‘And you found Miss Sayle sincere?’

‘That was the impression she made upon me.’

‘No evidence of a guilty conscience.’

‘No, Inspector.’

He was more impressed than he would have been by protestations. He
continued,

‘How did Mr. Burdon strike you?’

‘He has a great deal of charm, and he has been accustomed to rely upon
it. The Miss Benevents have been very indulgent, and I believe he did
what he could to repay their kindness. He spoke of Miss Cara with
affection, and of Miss Olivia with surprise and regret at her present
attitude. He gave me the impression that he has an easy-going nature, a
kind heart, and an indolent disposition.’

Since this agreed not only with what was said in the town but with his
own judgment, Rock accepted it without comment.

‘And Mr. Eversley?’ he said.

Miss Silver said in her temperate way,

‘You are probably aware that he is related to my cousin, Miss Arnold. I
suppose he may be considered a distant connection of my own. His uncle’s
firm enjoys a high reputation, and I believe he does it no discredit.
There is no reason to suppose him to be anything but a clever,
intelligent young man with a good character and good prospects who is
honestly and sincerely in love with Miss Sayle. You may be aware that
some part at least of Miss Olivia Benevent’s anger proceeds from the
fact that she hoped to make a match between her and Derek Burdon.’

The Inspector said, ‘Yes—’ in rather an absent-minded tone. He was
thinking that Miss Silver appeared to be very well informed. He went on,

‘And Anna Rossi—what do you think of her?’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘She is, of course, Italian by birth. I understand that she came to this
country at an early age, and there is very little foreign accent. The
foreign temperament is, however, present to a marked degree. She is
excitable and emotional, and makes no attempt to restrain the expression
of her feelings. I believe her attachment to Miss Cara Benevent to have
been genuine, and I think she has become fond of Miss Sayle. She stands
a good deal in awe of Miss Olivia and is very much afraid of provoking
her anger.’

Rock found himself impressed not only by what she said, but by the
manner in which she said it. Ladies, and especially elderly ladies, were
often quick to observe, but he had found in the main that their judgment
was apt to be swayed by personal feelings. In any case, they usually had
too much to say about it. In Miss Silver he found a moderation, a
restraint, and an economy of words quite outside his experience. Also,
and above all, he was aware of an intelligence which stimulated his own.
Miss Silver’s marked success in the schoolroom had been largely due to
the fact that, whilst making knowledge seem desirable, she was able to
awake in her pupils the consciousness of their ability to attain it. The
timid found themselves becoming confident, the intelligent stimulated.
All had found themselves capable of more than they supposed. As Frank
Abbott once remarked, ‘She strikes sparks out of you.’ Inspector Rock
was aware of this, though he could not, perhaps, have put it into words.
What he did was to lean forward and say,

‘Miss Silver—what has happened to Miss Sayle?’

Her reply was grave.

‘I do not believe that she has run away.’

‘Then where is she?’

‘I believe her to be somewhere in this house.’

‘What do you mean?’

She told him what Candida had told her. Anna’s niece Nellie waking
behind a locked door to hear something that went to and fro in the room
and wept, taking refuge for a night with Anna, and going away next day.
Candida Sayle waking to see light coming through a crack where
bookshelves masked what seemed to be a solid wall and being aware of
someone passing through her room with a torch held low. Anna brushing
dust from Miss Cara’s slippers and a cobweb from the tassel of her
dressing-gown.

‘I think you must see, Inspector, that these things point to the fact
that there are concealed passages in this old house. There is a family
story about a hidden treasure. It has not been considered lucky for
anyone to interfere with it. Miss Sayle repeated a curious old rhyme
which she and Derek Burdon had come across while going through some
family papers:

                        ‘ “Touch not nor try,
                        Sell not nor buy,
                        Give not nor take,
                        For dear life’s sake.” ’

‘They considered that it referred to the treasure, and she told me of
two instances which appear to bear this out. Both occurred in the
eighteenth century. In the first, a Benevent was found at his own front
door. He had a severe head injury, and it was said that he had fallen or
been thrown from his horse. In the second, his grandson was found dead
or dying, also quite near to the house. He too had a head injury, and
was said to have been set upon by footpads.’

Rock said, ‘What have you got in your mind?’

She continued as if he had not spoken.

‘Both these men were believed to have interfered with the Benevent
Treasure. Both were found quite near the house with fatal injuries to
the head.’

Rock repeated his question,

‘What have you got in your mind?’

She replied with a question of her own.

‘What have you got in yours, Inspector?’ Then, after a pause during
which he remained silent, she continued.

‘There is said to be a hidden treasure. There is some evidence that
there are hidden passages. My cousin Miss Arnold informs me that this
house was an old one when the founder of the Benevent family bought it
and added on to it in the seventeenth century. He was said to have
brought the treasure with him from Italy. So old a house might very well
have afforded him a secret hiding-place. It is not unknown, especially
in Italy, for such hiding-places to be contrived so as to be difficult
or even dangerous of approach. Does it not strike you as a strange
coincidence that these eighteenth-century Benevents, associated with an
attempt to withdraw the treasure, should both have received head
injuries from which they died, and that Miss Cara should now have met
with a similar accident? In your own opinion that was not due to a fall
at the place where she was found. Miss Sayle should have informed you
that there was dust upon Miss Cara’s felt slippers and a cobweb on the
tassel of her dressing-gown. She saw Anna brush them away. I may say
that this was under the first shock of finding her mistress dead. She
thought Anna acted instinctively, and it was only much later that she
began to think what these traces might imply. Underhill is a very well
kept house. I have been into every room, and there is no place where
dust or a cobweb could have been picked up. But they are what one might
expect in a secret passage. If Miss Cara came by her injury in such a
place, the same thing may have happened to James Benevent and his
grandson in the eighteenth century. If the secret of the house was to be
preserved, the bodies must be moved and some story produced that would
explain the injuries. There seems to be no doubt that Miss Cara’s body
was moved. The eighteenth-century cases may have suggested this course
of action.’

He was more impressed than he cared to admit. The particles of rust
found in the wound came to his mind. Rust—dust—and cobweb. None of
these three things were to be found in a well kept house. He had been
over every part of it himself, and they had no place there. He said
abruptly,

‘If these passages exist, what should take Miss Cara into them, and in
the middle of the night?’

He got a sober look, a sober response.

‘She was a most unhappy woman. I think she could not rest. May I ask
whether you are aware of the circumstances surrounding the disappearance
of Mr. Alan Thompson about three years ago?’

If he was startled he did not allow himself to show it.

‘I heard the talk that was going round. The matter was never brought to
the police officially.’

‘I believe not. It was put about, was it not, that he had taken money
and a diamond brooch belonging to Miss Cara?’

‘That was the talk.’

‘Should you have thought that a likely story if you had known that Miss
Cara was within a few days of marrying him, and that had she done so she
could have left him a life-interest in the whole of her property?’

He was surprised into a sudden movement.

‘Who told you that?’

The sage-green dress had a pocket. She produced a card and proffered it.
He read in neat inconspicuous type,

                        Miss Maud Silver
                            15 Montague Mansions
                                Leaham Street

There was a telephone number, and in the bottom left-hand corner the
words, ‘Private Enquiries’. He was less surprised than he would have
been half an hour ago.

She said sedately,

‘The young man’s stepfather commissioned me to make some enquiries. In
the course of them the daily help who was working here at the time of
Mr. Thompson’s disappearance told me that Miss Cara had given him a coin
which she believed to be a lucky charm. She said he wore it always about
his neck on a chain. At some time subsequent to his disappearance she
was doing Miss Olivia’s room, when she noticed Miss Olivia’s bunch of
keys depending from the keyhole of a drawer which had always been kept
locked. She said that the drawer was open, but I do not credit this. I
think the key was in the lock, and that she could not resist gratifying
her curiosity. Be that as it may, she was very much startled to find
that the drawer contained not only the coin which Mr. Thompson had so
constantly worn, but also the missing diamond brooch. I may say that I
went to see her because I was told she had declared that Alan Thompson
had never left Underhill. I got no more out of her than I have told you.
She was, in fact, very reluctant to speak of the matter at all. As far
as she did speak, I believe her to have been telling the truth. If Alan
Thompson did not take the brooch which he was accused of taking, he may
not have taken the money either. He really had very little reason to do
so. Miss Cara was on the eve of marrying him—’

He interrupted her sharply.

‘How do you know that?’

‘Colonel Gatling of Hilton St. John spoke of it to Stephen Eversley. His
brother, the Reverend Cyril Gatling, had agreed to marry them. He was a
good deal exercised about the matter, and wrote down his misgivings in a
diary which came into Colonel Gatling’s possession after his death. He
had, of course, no right to repeat what he had learned from so private a
source.’

Rock said, ‘If she was going to marry him—’ He left it at that.

‘Precisely. He had no inducement to disappear.’

‘He may have felt he couldn’t face the marriage.’

Miss Silver gave a slight disapproving cough.

‘From what my enquiries have brought to light, I do not fancy that he
would have scrupled at what was so evidently to his advantage. By all
accounts Miss Cara would have given him anything he wanted. I cannot
believe that he would have turned his back upon such a favourable
prospect. Even if the story stood alone, I should find it difficult to
believe. Taken in conjunction with the two eighteenth-century cases and
with recent events, it appears to me to tax credulity too far.’

‘You suggest—’

She said gravely,

‘Mr. Thompson disappeared. Miss Sayle has disappeared. In both these
cases there was a threat to Miss Olivia Benevent. If her sister married,
she lost everything except a very moderate life-interest. When her
sister died she was in a similar position. She reacted by accusing Miss
Sayle of being responsible for the death. She has forbidden Mr. Eversley
the house, and she is dismissing Mr. Burdon and myself. I am quite
unable to believe that Miss Sayle has disappeared voluntarily. I am
afraid that she may have been tricked or enticed into the passages, or
even taken there by force. That they are dangerous is certain. I feel
that a search-warrant should be produced without delay, and that there
should be a thorough investigation. Mr. Eversley, as an architect, would
be in a position to give the most valuable assistance. Miss Benevent is
in a hurry to get rid of him. As you can see, the matter is extremely
urgent. We do not know what has happened already, but I am sure there is
no time to be lost.’




                          Chapter Thirty-five


After a short but decisive encounter with Miss Olivia Benevent Inspector
Rock retired upon his Chief Constable. It was all very well to be told
to use tact and to handle her with kid gloves. You couldn’t use tact
with a tank, or handle an atomic bomb with kid gloves. He would not have
dreamed of allowing these or similar exaggerated expressions to escape
into speech, but they thronged his mind and set up quite a disturbance
there.

Major Warrender heard him with sympathy.

‘Formidable person,’ he said. ‘But look here—this
search-warrant—what’s your idea about it? It’s an awkward position to
my way of thinking. She has made no objection to your searching the
house?’

‘No, sir.’

‘To be sure, it wasn’t for her to say one way or another, except as a
matter of courtesy—not with Miss Sayle there.’

‘That’s just it, sir, Miss Sayle isn’t there now, and Miss Olivia has
got the bit between her teeth. When I asked her about hidden passages
she just said there weren’t any. When I told her that her sister’s body
had certainly been moved, and that Anna Rossi had been seen to brush
dust from her slippers and remove a cobweb from the tassel of her
dressing-gown, she sent for Anna and put it to her that she hadn’t done
any such thing.’

‘Oh, come, Rock, you shouldn’t have let her do that!’

‘How was I going to stop her, sir? She just said, “You had better ask
Anna about that,” and she rang the bell. And then before the woman was
well inside the door she was putting it to her—“The Inspector says you
brushed some dust from Miss Cara’s slippers and a cobweb from her
dressing-gown. I have assured him it’s all nonsense, but you had better
tell him so yourself.” ’

‘And what did Anna say?’

‘Stood and looked at her like a dog that thinks it’s going to be beaten.
And when I put it to her the way it ought to have been put, she flared
up and said how could there be any dust or cobwebs the way the house was
kept? And I said, “I’m not talking about the parts of the house I’ve
seen, but you’ve got some secret passages here, haven’t you?” And all
she could do was to stare at me and say she had never heard of any such
thing. And then she began to cry and go on about her poor Miss Cara.’

‘You ought to have seen her alone,’ said Major Warrender.

Inspector Rock considered that the Chief Constable was being wise after
the event.

The question of a search-warrant hung uneasily between them. Just what
Major Warrender would have done if he had been left to himself, it is
difficult to say. As it turned out, he was not to be left to himself.
The arrival of Stephen Eversley and Miss Maud Silver precipitated a
decision. Stephen was grey and grim, Miss Silver decorously determined.
Both were insistent that Candida Sayle could have no possible reason to
run away, and that in fact she had not done so.

Major Warrender tapped on his writing-table.

‘And you suggest—’

‘That she has not left Underhill,’ said Stephen Eversley.

Miss Silver took up the tale.

‘Miss Sayle informed me of her belief that the house contained a secret
passage or passages. Someone had come through her room in the night.’
She described Candida’s experience and went on to repeat her description
of having seen dust and a cobweb on Miss Cara, and Anna brushing them
away. Her manner was calm and persuasive. She concluded, ‘If such
passages exist, as indeed they do in so many old houses, what we fear is
that Miss Sayle found the entrance to one of them, probably the one
which opened on her own room, and that she may have been induced to
explore it. We fear that she may have met with an accident.’

Major Warrender tapped again.

‘Is there any evidence as to the existence of these passages?’

She had only got as far as ‘Miss Sayle—’ when he interrupted her.

‘Well, you see, that’s just it, it’s all Miss Sayle. There’s no evidence
except hers, and quite frankly, what does it amount to? She could quite
easily have been dreaming. Miss Benevent denies that any such passages
exist.’

Stephen said,

‘And isn’t that what she would do if they were a family secret? Look
here, sir, if those passages don’t exist, why won’t she let me satisfy
myself that they don’t? She had me there because she had got fussed
about cracks in the oldest part of the house, but she wouldn’t let me
make a proper examination, and when I said I must have more light in the
cellars and wanted to bring in a powerful electric lamp, she wouldn’t
hear of it—put me off and wrote to say they wouldn’t require my
services. Even from what I was allowed to see I can tell you there’s
plenty of room where those passages could run. It’s the front of the
house that’s been built on to. The older part was old in the sixteenth
century, and the walls there are thick enough for anything.’

‘And that’s true, sir,’ said Inspector Rock.

Miss Silver coughed in the manner in which she had been accustomed to
call a class to attention. Her eyes rested upon Major Warrender with an
expression of mild authority.

‘There really appears to be no reason why Miss Benevent should adopt an
obstructive attitude. May I point out that she has no right either to
give or to withhold permission for a thorough search of the house?
Underhill was the property of Miss Cara Benevent, and she is dead. It
has now passed to Miss Candida Sayle. You may confirm this by ringing up
Mr. Tampling, who is the family solicitor. He is also my cousin Miss
Arnold’s legal adviser, and the reason for my presence in Retley being
to help her in a matter of family business, I have some slight
acquaintance with him myself. He should, I think, be told that Miss
Sayle has disappeared. As her representative, his presence would seem to
be highly desirable if a search is to be made.’

Major Warrender experienced some relief. He would not, it appeared, be
obliged to face Miss Olivia Benevent without support, if indeed he had
to face her at all. He looked at Miss Silver with gratitude, for of
course what she said was perfectly true. Olivia Benevent had really no
legal status. It was not she but Candida Sayle who was Cara Benevent’s
heir. He reached for the telephone and rang up Mr. Tampling.




                           Chapter Thirty-six


In the darkness Candida remained motionless, her hand on the torch.
Brushing past handkerchief and purse, it had closed on the smooth, cold
metal and become frozen there. For the moment thought was frozen too.
Then gradually it came to life again, questioning, clamouring for an
answer. How had the torch got into her bag?

It wasn’t hers. She had brought no such thing to Underhill. There was a
torch of Barbara’s packed up in one of the boxes she had left in store,
an old battered thing which had gone through the war in the days when
Barbara Sayle was a warden and had come out of it with a veteran’s
scars. There was a dent on the rim which held the glass . . . Her
fingers moved on the thing she held—unchipped glass and a smooth metal
ring. This couldn’t be Barbara’s torch. It lay there under her hand new
and undented, and whoever it belonged to, it was not she who had put it
into her bag. Then who? There was an answer to that—the same person or
the same people who had dressed her in her outdoor clothes and brought
her here.

But why? As to the clothes, the answer was not far to seek. It was meant
to look as if she had run away. She had been accused, and she had run
away. The picture was clear enough. But the torch—that didn’t account
for the torch. She had been put into this dark place and left there to
its terrors. Then why the mercy of the torch? She thought it would have
taken more than one person to carry her. Perhaps it had come to one of
them how dreadful it might be to die in the dark. Perhaps—her thought
broke off.

Since she had the torch, it was all that mattered. Then why did she
delay to use it? In the depths of her mind she knew the answer. It was
because it gave her a little hope which she was loth to lose. She could
stay there with the torch under her hand and feel that she could break
the darkness. She had only to move her finger on the switch and there
would be light. But was there any chance that the torch would have been
put in her bag if it was going to help her? She could not think . . .
Suppose she pressed on the switch and no light came—could anyone be
cruel enough to make such a mock of hope? She didn’t know. She had
stumbled into a nightmare where anything might happen.

Suppose the light came on and showed her something more dreadful than
the dark—some trap, some pit, or just the blank unbroken walls of a
tomb. Perhaps the torch was there to show her how little hope there was.

All this time she had been dulled by the drug, but the effect was
waning. Quick and suddenly her courage rose. If you don’t do everything
you can, you will always be beaten and you will deserve it. If you don’t
fight on even after it doesn’t seem to be any good, you are not worth
saving. She lifted the torch out of the bag and pressed the switch.

The beam was bright and strong. It cut the darkness and came to rest no
more than a yard away, splashing its light against the dull surface of a
wall. She turned it this way and that. There was a wall on either side
of her and a roof above. She thought the roof would be six foot over her
head as she sat, perhaps more, perhaps less. She was sitting back upon
her heels with the bag in her lap. The passage ran away in front of her.

Her feet and ankles were cramped. She got up on to her feet and stood
waiting for the blood to come back into them. She was dizzy enough for
her first step to take her to the wall with a hand stretched out and
groping for it. The air was heavy. Turning the torch the other way, she
could see that the passage went away to the right. She didn’t know
whether to go on or to go back. As her head cleared she became aware
that the wall against which she was leaning was made of brick. With
nothing to sway her choice, she went step by step in the direction
towards which she had been facing when the light came on. Ten paces
brought her to a turn. The passage narrowed and the roof was nearer. She
came to a flight of steps, very narrow, very steep, and climbed them.
Ten steps going up, and at the head of them a small square platform and
a door. She went down on her knees and set the torch beside her,
propping it with her bag.

The door was about two and a half foot high by two foot wide. It was
made of old weathered oak. The light showed up the grain and the dry
grey surface of the wood. It was all dry here—dry and dusty. Not damp
like the passage below. She put out her hand to the oak and pushed
against it. It was as solid as the floor upon which she was kneeling.
There was no handle to the door.




                          Chapter Thirty-seven


Mr. Tampling was a little grey man. He had a bright enquiring eye and a
tendency to romance which he made it his business to hold in check. He
considered that it should be kept in its place, where it afforded him a
good deal of secret pleasure. He was now in his early sixties, and he
had known Miss Olivia Benevent ever since he could remember. His father,
his grandfather, and his great-grandfather had handled the Benevents’
affairs. When he had first come into the firm as a very young man Miss
Olivia had patronised him. She was a few years the elder, and she had
not only behaved as if those few years were a good many more, but she
had very obviously regarded him from the other side of a social rubicon
which could never be crossed. He made up his mind about her then, and
had never seen any occasion to alter it. He was sorry for Miss Cara, who
was obviously quite incapable of standing up for herself, and he had
done his best to protect her interests. He was now quite prepared to do
his best for Candida Sayle, and since he was an executor of the will
under which she inherited, he was in a position to do so. He expressed
himself as shocked at her disappearance and concerned for her safety.

As he waited for the Chief Constable to pick him up, this concern
increased. He was remembering a conversation with Miss Olivia Benevent
after her father’s death. It had been necessary for him to remind her
that it was not she but Miss Cara who inherited the estate, and that,
apart from Miss Cara’s right to assign a life-rent of the property to
her husband in the event of her marriage, it would pass at her death to
her sister Candida Sayle.

She had stared back at him with cold anger.

‘My sister Candida is dead.’

‘I believe she had children.’

‘A son and a daughter. What has that to do with it?’

‘The son would inherit. Failing him or his children, the daughter would
do so.’

He had never been able to forget her look, her words. She had not raised
her voice. She had said that she hoped no child of Candida Sayle would
survive, and she had said it as if she were cursing them. He had been
most profoundly shocked, and he had not forgotten. He remembered that
Miss Cara had cried out, and that Olivia had quelled her with a look. He
could see poor Cara now with the tears running down her face, catching
her breath and murmuring, ‘Oh, no—no—that is a dreadful thing to say!’

Miss Olivia was in the drawing-room when Joseph informed her of Mr.
Tampling’s arrival.

‘There is another gentleman with him—Major Warrender—and the Police
Inspector.’

She sat very upright, her plain dead black relieved against the white
brocade chair. She had her embroidery-frame upon her lap, and a needle
threaded with scarlet silk in her hand. There were three handsome rings
on the third finger. They crowded one another, but the diamonds flashed
bravely. She said in a measured voice,

‘Major Warrender is the Chief Constable. I have not sent for him, or for
Mr. Tampling, but I will see them.’

She looked very small and black as they came round the lacquer screen
into the big white room. She was setting a stitch in her embroidery, and
she did not look up until they were half way across the floor. She did
not rise to meet them. There was a cold stare from the shallow black
eyes, a raising of the narrow arched brows, and a slight, very slight
inclination of the head. After which she addressed herself to Major
Warrender.

‘May I ask the reason for this visit? My sister is very recently dead.
Is there to be no consideration for my grief?’ The tone was even harsher
than the words. She turned to Mr. Tampling. ‘I do not quite know why you
are here, but since you are, you can perhaps tell me whether I am
obliged to put up with these intrusions.’

He took the word from Major Warrender, who was only too glad to let him
have it.

‘Miss Benevent, I must advise you that it would be very unwise for you
to refuse to co-operate with the police. The Chief Constable informs me
that Miss Cara’s death cannot be attributed to an accident. I was her
legal adviser, and I am an executor under your grandfather’s will. The
estate has devolved upon Miss Candida Sayle. I am informed that she has
disappeared. In the circumstances, I feel sure you must see that every
possible assistance should be given to the police. There is no desire to
intrude upon your privacy, but you are not in a position to withhold all
possible facilities for a very complete search of the house.’

She appeared to stiffen. He guessed at the forced control of a
formidable temper. When she spoke, it was without any expression at all.

‘The house has already been searched.’

He had not met Candida Sayle, but he knew now that he had seen her. On a
day a week ago in Stephen Eversley’s car. They were talking together and
laughing, and he had thought to himself that young Eversley was a lucky
man. The picture came back to him now—a young man quite obviously in
love and a girl with bright hair and sparkling eyes, the air of youth
and happiness which surrounded them. He turned from it to the dead
weight of Miss Olivia’s resistance.

‘There have been developments since the search was conducted. Major
Warrender will tell you that he is not satisfied.’ He turned to the
Chief Constable. Miss Olivia also turned to fix him with that cold
resentful stare. He said,

‘Miss Benevent, Miss Sayle has disappeared. There is a suggestion that
she may have strayed into some passage in the older part of the house
and have found herself unable to get out. If you know of any such
place—’

‘I do not. Miss Sayle is not here.’

‘Then where is she?’

She lifted a hand and let it fall again. It held the needle with the
scarlet thread.

‘How should I know? I believe her to be responsible for my sister’s
death. When she found that the police would not accept it as an accident
she became frightened and she has run away. You would be better employed
in trying to trace her. You are wasting your time here.’

With the last word, her attention appeared to be withdrawn. She lifted
the embroidery-frame and took a fine, smooth stitch. Mr. Tampling came
up to her and spoke in a low voice. She might not have heard him. He
said,

‘This is very unwise. I have to tell you that there is a search-warrant.
Major Warrender does not wish to use it. As Miss Sayle’s nearest
relative you must be deeply interested in her being found. I would urge
you in the strongest terms—’

She looked up then, scanned him briefly, and said,

‘I do not know what more you want. I have told you my opinion. Major
Warrender will do as he pleases. Miss Sayle’s whereabouts do not
interest me.’ She went back to her embroidery again.

Joseph was waiting in the hall, the quiet decorous manservant, resentful
of an affront to the house he served, but concealing it deftly. To have
the police back again when it was to be hoped they had seen the last of
them, and with the police Mr. Eversley who had been forbidden the house,
and that Miss Silver who had come as it were out of nowhere! He had
expressed himself with a good deal of freedom on the subject of Miss
Maud Silver. One had only to see her for five minutes to tell what sort
she was. He had a good deal to say about it to his wife Anna.

‘If there is one grain of dust in a room, she will see it! If anyone
whispers a word in the middle of the night, she will hear it! I had only
to set my eyes on her and I knew!’

He was asked to produce his wife, and did so. She had been crying again.
Upstairs in the room that had been Candida Sayle’s she was questioned,
and went on crying. She didn’t know about a passage that opened here.
She didn’t know about any passage at all. If there were such a thing, it
would be secret. She would not know about it—she would not want to
know. Such places were horrible—they had been made for some bad
purpose. Nothing would make her enter one. In a place like that, who
could know what there might be? Mice, or even rats! Or some pit into
which you might fall and never be heard of again! She called God to
witness that nothing would make her set foot in such a place.

Rock said, ‘She knows something.’ To which Miss Silver replied,

‘I do not think she knows, but I think she is afraid.’

‘What is she afraid of?’

She said gravely,

‘Of Miss Olivia—of what has happened to Miss Cara—of what may be
happening to Miss Sayle.’

‘You don’t think—’

She dropped her voice to its lowest tone.

‘Inspector, I too am very much afraid.’

Stephen Eversley had not spoken at all. He went straight from the door
to the recess between the chimney-breast and the side wall of the house.
Shelves filled with books from the floor almost to the ceiling, a carved
border to simulate a bookcase. He began to take the books out of the
shelves. Presently the other two men joined him.

It is astonishing how much room books can take up. Even the smallest
book-case when emptied appears to have given up double the number of
books which it could have been supposed to contain. The piles upon the
floor grew high. Sometimes they overbalanced and fell. The books had to
be carried farther back into the room. There was no dust. The empty
shelves were clean. The first thing Stephen discovered was that they
were not fastened to the wall. There were wooden side-pieces and a
wooden back. There was, in fact, what amounted to the shell of a
book-case fastened into the recess, but by what means it did not appear.

There could be a door here, and if there was, there must be some means
of opening it. He did not believe that Candida had been dreaming when
she saw someone come from the recess and pass through the room with a
torch held low. His mind became concentrated on the task of finding the
opening.

The other two men stood back and watched him. He had the skill and the
incentive which were beyond anything they could supply. Anna’s breath
still came unevenly, but she no longer sobbed aloud, and her tears had
ceased to flow. When Miss Silver touched her on the arm she rose and
followed her to the room next door. Bidden to sit down, she said in a
distressed voice,

‘Miss Olivia will not like it. I must go back to her.’

She was overborne by a manner of calm authority.

‘Not just yet, Anna. I want to talk to you—about Miss Candida. You have
served the Benevents for a long time, have you not?’

‘For forty years.’ There was pride in her tone.

‘And you loved Miss Cara?’

‘God knows I loved her!’

‘Miss Candida is also of the family, and I think Miss Cara loved her.’

‘Yes, yes, she loved her—my poor Miss Cara!’

‘Then will you think what she would have wished you to do? You do not
believe that Miss Candida has run away, do you? You do not believe that
she had anything to do with Miss Cara’s death. You know very well that
she had not anything to do with Miss Cara’s death. You know very well
that she had no reason to run away. If there is anything else that you
know, you must tell it before it is too late. Do you want for all the
rest of your life to have to think, “I could have saved her, but I would
not speak”?’

Anna’s hands twisted in her lap. She said in a tone of agony,

‘What can I do?’

‘You can tell me what you know.’

‘_Dio mio_, there is nothing—they would kill me!’

‘You will be protected. Where did Miss Cara get the blow that killed
her?’

The twisting hands came up in a gesture of despair.

‘How do I know? I will tell you, and you shall judge. There are secret
places—that is all I know. It is not my business—I do not look, I do
not speak. I have seen dust on my poor Miss Cara’s slippers. I think
sometimes that she walks in her sleep, but I do not ask. There is a
night I miss her from her room and I come looking for her. I think
perhaps she has gone to Mr. Alan’s room to grieve for him. So I come
this way, and she comes out of his room, walking in her dream. She comes
by me and she is talking to herself. “I can’t find him,” she says, “I
can’t find him!” And, “They have taken him away!” She goes back to her
room, and she is crying all the way. I help her out of her
dressing-gown, and there is dust on it and cobwebs, so I think she has
been in the secret places and I am very much afraid.’

‘Why were you afraid?’

Anna drew in her breath sharply.

‘Because of what old Mr. Benevent told me.’

‘What did he tell you?’

Anna’s voice dropped to what could only just be heard.

‘He was very old,’ she said. ‘He would talk to himself, and he would
talk to me. He tells me about the Treasure—how it is quite safe in a
secret place. “Quite safe,” he says, and laughs to himself. “A man may
walk over it and not know it is there. He may go up, and he may go down,
and he will not know. And if he knew, and if he went, it would never do
him any good.” And then he would take hold of me by my hand
hard—_hard_, and he would say, “Yes, it is safe—quite safe.” But not
to go near it, never go near it—not for anything in the world. Not to
give and not to take—there was something about that in a rhyme.’

Miss Silver quoted it gravely:

                        ‘ “Touch not nor try,
                        Sell not nor buy,
                        Give not nor take,
                        For dear life’s sake.” ’

Anna stared from her reddened eyes.

‘Who told you that?’

Her look was held.

‘It was Miss Candida. Anna—where is Miss Candida?’

Anna put her hands up and covered her face.

‘O _Dio mio_—I think she is dead!’




                          Chapter Thirty-eight


Candida did not know how much time had gone by. Perhaps the effect of
the drug had not quite worn off, perhaps the heavy air of this small
confined space had dulled her senses, but after she had come upon the
door which had no handle everything seemed to stand still. She couldn’t
move the door, she couldn’t go on, and there was no strength in her to
go back. She wasn’t afraid any longer—everything was too hazy for that.
But she remembered that she must save the battery of the torch, and she
switched it off. She didn’t remember anything after that for quite a
long time.

She woke to a cramped position and stiff limbs, and for a moment she did
not know where she was. With returning memory, she put on the torch
again. There was no sense in staying here. The door wouldn’t move, and
the air was fresher below. She went down the steps and back along the
way that she had come. There must be other ways out of these passages.
There was the one behind the bookcase in her room, and certainly one in
the room which Nellie had had, or how could Miss Cara have come into it
walking in her sleep? There might be a dozen ways in, a dozen ways out.
Any one of them would serve her turn, but she must find it before the
light began to fail.

She came back to the place from which she had started. At least she
thought it was that place, because looking back, she had seen, or
thought she had seen, that the passage ran away to the right. She went
on and found that the right-hand bend had become a turn. There was
something that lay across the path. The light fell on it. It was an iron
bar coated with rust. She stepped across it without thinking what it
might be.

The passage ran on a few feet and ended in a kind of hollow cave or
niche. The niche was narrower than the passage, and it was raised above
it. The beam of the torch played over it and showed an iron-bound box or
chest with the lid thrown back. It filled the niche and it disclosed,
piled up within, the treasure which Ugo di Benevento had stolen three
hundred years ago.

At the first glance she had held the torch too high, but even then she
had no doubt as to what she had stumbled upon. There was a dish or
platter standing on its edge and leaning against one of the hinges.
There was a pair of candlesticks fallen in a St. Andrew’s cross. There
were other things. She remembered that there had been a golden dish—no,
‘sundry golden plates and dishes’—in the list which she and Derek had
read, sitting safely in the daylight with the table between them. They
had looked across the three-hundred-year gap, and Derek had warned her
to have nothing to do with the Treasure. She could remember that he had
said to let it alone. And then he had spoken about Alan Thompson—just
his name and, ‘I’ve got a feeling he _didn’t_ leave it alone.’

It was something like that—in her mind, but vaguely, with memory
playing on it as the beam of the torch played on the hidden things in
the niche.

The beam was still too high. The hand that held the torch was rigid,
reluctant to bring it down. She did not direct it consciously, but began
to move as if she could no longer hold it up. The shimmering light slid
over the stones of a necklace. They were great red stones, and they were
linked with diamonds. It slid lower. Now what it touched was not stone,
but bone. Fleshless bones of a skeleton hand which clutched the edge of
the chest.

Lower, down the shape of an arm, to a heap of huddled clothes pressed
close against the niche. Someone had knelt there to clutch at the
Treasure—had knelt—and clutched—and died. Even to Candida’s failing
senses there could be no doubt as to who that someone had been. She had
no doubt at all that it was Alan Thompson who had laid hands on the
Benevento Treasure and died for it. She took a wavering step backwards
and went down.




                          Chapter Thirty-nine


The back of the bookcase swung in. Stephen stepped back with the chisel
in his hand and said,

‘There!’

Major Warrender said, ‘Well, I don’t know, I’m sure,’ his tone a
doubting one, because it had been necessary to force an opening and he
couldn’t help seeing that some damage had been done. Of course it would
have been a good deal worse if the damage had been done and no opening
found. He turned for reassurance to Mr. Tampling and surprised an
unexpected gleam in his eye. For the moment the streak of romance had
got the upper hand of him. Candida Sayle had said that there was a
secret passage, and there was one. The wooden back of the recess was a
door, and it stood open.

Miss Silver had returned to the room. She looked gravely at the dark
entry which the open door disclosed. She looked at Stephen Eversley’s
face. He took the powerful electric lamp with which he had provided
himself and passed into the gap. There was a small platform and steps
that led from it. He went down, the light withdrawn as he did so and
leaving only a reflected glow. When he got to the bottom he called back.

‘There are ten steps. Someone ought to stay behind to see we don’t get
shut in.’

There was a delay whilst Rock went to fetch the constable who had been
told to wait in the car. On his return they climbed down after Stephen.
There was an old worn hand-rail stapled to the wall, and they were glad
of it. The steps were high and irregular.

When they had come to the bottom there was a short length of passage. It
was dark, and narrow, and dusty. Miss Silver reflected upon the probable
presence of spiders. If Miss Cara had wandered here, there might very
easily have been dust upon her slippers and a cobweb on the tassel of
her gown. But she wondered, very deeply she wondered, whether she could
have come this way or climbed that steep, irregular stair in a dream.
There might, of course, be other and easier ways into the passages.

There were certainly other ways. They came to a place where this one
divided. There were steps that went up and steps that went down. Stephen
left them standing in the dark and climbed, taking the light with him.
It dwindled and was gone. They stood close together, feeling the
heaviness of the air and the weight of the dark. Only to Mr. Tampling
was the experience other than an anxious and sinister one. Not all his
concern for Candida—and he was truly concerned for her—could deny him
the thrill of adventure. Buried memories of stories in the _Boy’s Own
Paper_ read surreptitiously by candle-light when he ought to have been
enjoying his lawful slumbers woke up and magicked him. The passage under
the castle moat—secret ways that led to the smuggler’s cave—the
skeleton . . . Well, thank goodness there could be no skeleton here.
They stood together, touching one another, and did not move. After a
long time, the light glimmered and returned. Stephen came back. He said
briefly,

‘There is a way out into several of the rooms. All quite easy to open
from this side. We are at ground-floor level here. Those other steps
will take us to the cellar level. I’ve always thought that if there was
a hiding-place, there would be an entrance to it from those cellars.
Miss Olivia wouldn’t let me examine them, you know.’

He went on before them with the light. The steps were easier here. They
led by way of a short passage into a small brick-lined chamber. But this
did not lead to anywhere at all. It was empty. The air was heavy. The
beam of the torch travelled over all the walls in turn. They showed an
unbroken surface.

Miss Silver gave her slight hortatory cough.

‘I think,’ she said, ‘that a review of some of the facts would be
beneficial. This is an old house. It was old when Ugo di Benevento
bought it and built on to it. I think we may assume that these passages
were part of the original building. But would he have considered them a
sufficiently safe hiding-place for the Benevento Treasure? I believe
not. He could have no certainty that their existence was not known. I
believe that he would have constructed a hiding-place which was known
only to himself.’

Major Warrender said,

‘To make sure of that he would have had to do all the work himself.’

‘He may have done so, or he may have taken means to ensure that whoever
did the work would never speak of it.’

With a thrill that was only partly horror Mr. Tampling recalled that
dead men tell no tales.

Miss Silver continued.

‘We have not found any place where Miss Cara could have met with a fatal
accident. It seems likely that she had been in these passages, but I
think we must conclude that she died, or was murdered, elsewhere. I do
not think it possible that her body could have been taken to where it
was found by way of the steep steps and narrow passages which we have
traversed. There would have been a great deal more than a little dust
upon her clothing if that had been the case. She may have walked through
one of the passages, but I think her body must have been brought back by
some easier way.’

Thoughts which Stephen had been holding by main force thrust past his
desperate guard. By what way had Candida gone—by what way had she been
taken? And if they found her, what was it they would find—herself, or
only the body she had worn? He had no answer to these things. He said
harshly,

‘Miss Silver is right. If there was such a thing as the Benevento
Treasure, it wouldn’t have been hidden where anyone who knew the house
might stumble on it. And if Miss Cara came by her death whilst she was
looking for it, she must certainly have been taken back into the house
by some easier way than the one by which we have come. Only as to where
she was murdered—if she really _was_ murdered—there simply isn’t any
evidence. And what does it matter? What we have to do is to find this
other hiding-place—if it exists.’

He had started out to say, ‘What we have to do is to find Candida,’ but
he couldn’t say it. He turned abruptly and went back along the passage
leading to the steps. There was something—passed over at the time but
coming back as one of those impressions which come, and go, and come
again. It was something to do with the passage. The light had been
focussed ahead of him as they came through it, the cellar door had been
in view. Now it was the passage itself which had his whole
attention—rough brick walls, propped by wooden posts and crossed
between every two posts by a wooden lateral. Old cottages had
half-timbering like that, but what was it doing in an underground
passage?

The answer came with the question. One of these squares could be a door.

The light ran up and down, and there was the latch, fitted smoothly
against one of the wooden uprights. A turn of the hand and the door
swung outwards. He stooped, and came up again. The lifted lamp showed
him where he was—in the main cellar of Underhill.




                             Chapter Forty


It was all to do again. And there was no clue. As the others came
through the gap and joined him, Stephen was looking about him with
something very like despair in his heart. This was the main cellar of
the house, with an easy flight of steps going up to a passage behind the
kitchen, and a second flight which led to the courtyard at the side of
the house. Along the far wall there was a row of doors. When Miss Olivia
had brought him down here she had dismissed them briefly.

‘The wine-cellar. Coals. Wood. The others are empty.’

He had not been permitted to examine any of them. When he had said
bluntly that he could not make a satisfactory report without a much more
detailed examination he had been put in what Miss Olivia considered to
be his place. Any of the cellars might conceal an opening, and ‘The
wine-cellar is locked.’ He found he was saying these words aloud.

It was Miss Silver who answered him.

‘Is it your opinion that the entrance to this hiding-place would be in a
locked cellar? It is not mine.’

‘Why?’

She said in her usual composed manner,

‘It would attract too much attention. The locked room would be the very
first to be investigated. The aim would rather be to put the Treasure in
a place which would attract no attention at all.’

Stephen said bitterly. ‘This place is about thirty by twenty—there is
plenty of choice.’

She came nearer to him and put a hand on his arm.

‘Have you thought about the steps—the ones coming down from the house?
Or the others?’

He stared at her.

‘What do you mean?’

‘I talked to Anna. She is in great distress about Candida. She has grown
fond of her. I asked her whether she could bear to think for the rest of
her life that she might have saved her and had refrained. She cried
bitterly, and said what could she do? She was very much afraid. She
said, “They would kill me!” I told her that she would be protected, and
that she must tell what she knew. She declared with vehemence that she
knew nothing—only that there were secret places, and that she had seen
the dust on Miss Cara’s shoes, and that she was very much afraid. When I
pressed her she said it was because of what old Mr. Benevent had told
her.’

They were all listening, but as far as she and Stephen Eversley were
concerned they might have been alone. He reached out and took her by the
arm.

‘What did he tell her?’

Miss Silver repeated what Anna had said.

‘He was very old, and he used to talk about the Treasure. He said it was
quite safe in a secret place—“A man may walk over it and not know it is
there. He may go up, and he may go down, and he will not know. And if he
knew, and if he went, it would never do him any good.” There is a rhyme
about it, you know, among the family papers:

                        ‘ “Touch not nor try,
                        Sell not nor buy,
                        Give not nor take,
                        For dear life’s sake.” ’

His hand closed on her. He said in a hard voice,

‘An old man in his dotage babbling. What a clue!’

‘Old men remember the past.’

‘Say it again.’

She repeated the words.

‘ “A man may walk over it and he will not know. He may go up and he may
go down, and he will not know.” ’

He let go of her abruptly and went over to the steps which led to the
house, but before reaching them he swerved and crossed diagonally to the
flight which gave upon the courtyard. It was set in a corner, but a
little away from the wall. There was a space there wide enough for a man
to enter. A little straw lay about, as if carelessly dropped. It was old
trodden straw. He came into the narrow place with the electric lamp in
his hand. _He may go up, and he may go down, and he will not know._ This
unregarded corner might be passed a thousand times. The steps were of
stone—old steps, hollowed by the passing of many feet. The wall on the
other side was also of stone—big square blocks of it, quarried from the
hill beyond and set in place three hundred, four hundred years ago. If
there were a secret entrance to Ugo di Beneverito’s hiding-place it
might very well be here. A tunnel dug from this point would pass under
the courtyard. There might be such a tunnel. The steps would screen it.
His mind was quite clear, quite logical. A hundred men might search for
a hundred days and never find the entrance. The light passed backwards
and forwards, up and down. It showed stone and straw, and a little round
black thing that lay at his foot. He stooped and picked it up, and it
was a shoe-button.

Just an ordinary black shoe-button.

He held it in the palm of his hand and the light fell on it. Miss
Silver’s voice seemed to come from a long way off.

‘What is it?’

He turned so that she could see the button on his palm.

‘Candida has shoes with a strap and a button like this.’

The words horrified him. If Candida had come this way, how had she come?
And why had the button come off her shoe? Frightful images rose before
his thought. If she had been dragged along this rough floor, the button
might have caught and been wrenched—

Miss Silver said quickly and insistently,

‘It means that this is the place. It means that we are on the right
track.’

Mr. Tampling was at some disadvantage. Both the Chief Constable and
Inspector Rock were taller than he was, especially the Inspector. He
really could not see what was happening. It occurred to him that if he
went a little way up the steps he would be able to see very well. He saw
Miss Silver step aside, and he saw the Inspector take the lamp whilst
Stephen Eversley examined the wall. There was no hand-rail to the steps,
so to be sure of keeping his balance Mr. Tampling kneeled down upon the
fifth step, which gave him a very good view. He heard the Chief
Constable say, ‘Well, it all looks as solid as the Cathedral to me.’

And then the thing happened. Rock made a step forward and slipped on the
mouldy straw. He had the lamp in his right hand, and with his left he
thrust out against the wall to recover his balance. The slip landed him
in a heavy plunging step with all his weight behind it. He came down
sprawling, because the wall against which he thrust had given way.

Stephen snatched the lamp and held it up. Rock got to his knees and
stared at the slanting hole in the wall, which had been a solid block of
stone. Stephen leaned across him and pushed it. It swung in like a door.
The chance of a heavy man coming down with all his weight upon a stone
slab in the floor while he pitched against just the right block in the
wall had released the mechanism which controlled the entrance to Ugo di
Benevento’s hiding-place. Mr. Tampling from his vantage point could see
the open doorway, narrow and low, and beyond it a platform of bricks,
and steps that went down into the dark.

There was another of those delays whilst Rock went for the constable who
had been left on guard in Candida’s room. The entrance there was no
longer of any importance. It was this one which must be guarded now. The
longest minutes of Stephen’s life dragged by. By the clock there were no
more than four of them—in terms of heart-wrung suspense they seemed to
have no end and no beginning. If there had been a second lamp, he could
have gone on, but there was no second lamp.

The footsteps of the two men returning broke in upon the strain. The
Chief Constable looked at the hole in the wall and decided to take no
chances. He had no fancy for being trapped underground, and he told Rock
to stay with the constable.

Stephen went in, and the light went with him down the steps. On the
inner side the stone was faced with wood. Against this door Candida had
beat in vain—on this small brick platform she had sunk down in despair.
There was nothing to tell them these things.

They followed Stephen to the foot of the steps and along the passage
which ran under the courtyard and tunnelled into the hill. The lamp
which he held picked up an iron bar flung down across the path. He
checked momentarily. The light fell on it. It showed a coating of
rust—and something else—shreds of hair that had been soaked in blood.
They all stood looking at it.

For a moment there was just one picture in every mind—Miss Cara dead at
the foot of the stairs in her own house. But not killed by any fall from
those stairs—struck down here by this rusty bar in this strange place.
Stephen stepped over the bar and threw the light ahead.

Mr. Tampling’s excitement had reached a dizzying height. He now saw what
Candida had seen, but far more brightly illumined—the cave or niche
which had closed the passage, the iron-bound box that filled it, the
raised lid and the Treasure within. The light dazzled on the golden
dish, the candlesticks, the stones of a fabulous necklace. It struck
fire from the stones—blood-red fire. And then—

He saw the skeleton hand that had clutched at the Treasure and fallen
upon death—the bones and the rags which were all that were left of Alan
Thompson. And nearer, right across their path, Candida Sayle, her face
hidden against the arm thrown out to save herself as she fell.

The lamp was thrust on Major Warrender, and Stephen was on his knees,
saying her name.

‘Candida—Candida—Candida!’

She came back to the sound of his voice, and she was never to forget it.
After the darkness that had been like death, after the burial of hope
and life itself, to wake with his arms about her and his voice calling
her name—

She opened her eyes, and the place was light. Stephen was holding her as
if he would never let her go. She said,

‘I found the treasure—don’t touch it—it killed poor Alan—’




                           Chapter Forty-one


Joseph came into the drawing-room, his dark skin yellow and damp with
sweat. Miss Olivia was working at her embroidery. She looked up and said
sharply,

‘What is the matter?’

‘They are down in the cellar—they have found the opening!’

‘Impossible!’

His voice grated.

‘I tell you they have found it! The Inspector came up—he went to the
bedroom and fetched the constable. I followed them to the top of the
cellar stairs. From there I can see that the secret door is open and
that they are all there. The Inspector and the young man stay, and the
others go down into the passage. You know what they will find. What do
we do—what do we say?’

She looked at him directly.

‘Do? Say? We have only to be perfectly clear and firm, and to be very
much surprised. There are some passages in the house which have always
been a family secret, but we do not know of any others—if there is one
in the cellar, we know nothing about it. There have been stories about a
treasure, but I have never believed them. If there was anyone so foolish
as to go looking for it, he did so at his own risk. If he met with a
fatal accident, it was without any knowledge or responsibility of mine.
And if Miss Sayle was foolish enough to follow his example, I cannot
hold myself responsible for that.’

‘She will say—’

‘She can say anything she likes, and she can prove nothing at all. She
will say she drank a glass of milk and after that she remembers nothing.
And the answer is that she was walking in her sleep. It is either that,
or she has made up the whole story. She has found out something about
the passages—she has been working on the family papers, and she takes
it into her head to explore at night when everybody is asleep. A much
more likely story than that she was drugged and shut up there in the
dark to die.’

He said in an approving voice,

‘It is a good story—if they will believe it.’ Then, after a pause,
‘Anna is the one I am afraid of.’

‘She is a fool—and she knows nothing.’

He said in what was almost a pettish voice,

‘She looks at me as if—as if—’

‘As if what?’

‘As if she found me—horrible!’

Her glance just touched him scornfully.

‘Perhaps she does—perhaps—’ She spoke suddenly and vehemently. ‘How
did my sister die?’

He stood his ground.

‘I have told you. She walked in her sleep. I followed her in case she
should come to harm. She was wringing her hands and saying, “I can’t
find him—I can’t find him!” She went down into the cellar and opened
the secret door. I could not let her down into such a place alone—I
went after her. When she came to where the Treasure is she saw Mr. Alan
lying there, and she cried out. His hand was on the necklace, and she
went to take hold of it. The lid of the chest came down and struck her,
and she died. I pushed it up, and I pulled her away, but she was dead. I
came and told you, and we carried her to where she was found. You know
all this.’

There was a sense of unbearable strain. They were too much intent upon
one another to have been aware that the door behind the tall black
lacquer screen had opened. There was no design in that soft opening. It
was not Miss Silver’s wont to enter or leave a room with any jarring
sound, but when she heard Miss Olivia say, ‘How did my sister die?’ she
came no more than one step inside the door and put up a hand to check
the advance of Mr. Tampling, who was immediately behind her. They stood
there upon the threshhold, listening, and heard Joseph tell his tale,
and when he had said, ‘You know all this,’ they heard Miss Olivia answer
him. The words came tense with feeling.

‘I know what you have told me.’

Joseph said, ‘I have told you the truth.’

Within the room, and beyond their sight, Miss Olivia let the
embroidery-frame drop upon her knee. The hand which held the needle came
down too, the thread of scarlet silk trailing. She said,

‘You are lying.’

‘_Madam!_’

Her eyes were on him, sombre and intent.

‘You are lying. You say she was walking in her sleep. I have seen her
walk like that, and so have you. Are you going to tell me that she took
a torch in her hand to light her through a dream? But you say you _saw_
her go down into the cellar and open the secret door. There are lights
in the house, but what light is there in that dark place?’

He said on a stubborn note,

‘I had a torch.’

‘I tell you, you had not! You would not have dared to follow her with a
torch in your hand—you would not have dared!’

‘Do you think I followed her in the dark?’

‘I do not! It was she who had the torch. And she was not walking in her
sleep, she was awake, because it had come to her that Mr. Alan must be
there. I did not think that she would ever dare to go into that place
alone. She had gone once with me, and she came near to fainting with
fright. I did not think she would ever go alone.’

He said with impatience,

‘What does it matter who had the torch? The rest is as I said.’

‘No.’

The word was like a blow and he exclaimed against it.

‘Is this a time to question and to quarrel? We have to know what we are
to do, what we are to say.’

‘I must have the truth from you. My sister did not die as you have said.
There was no hand there for her to touch—there were only bones. Do you
ask me to believe that she would have touched dead bones? I tell you she
would have fainted, or she would have screamed and run away. And she
would have done nothing to set off the spring and let down the lid of
the chest upon her head. I think she cried out and turned to run away. I
think you tried to stop her, perhaps to reason with her, and she would
not listen. I think you had to stop her because you could not stop her
mouth. I think she died because you knew what she might tell.’

He cried out.

‘I never laid a hand on Mr. Alan!’

‘There was no need to lay a hand upon him. He snatched at the Treasure
and it killed him, as it has killed before, and may again.’

His voice rose.

‘And who showed him the way to the Treasure? It was not Miss Cara! And
who else knew the secret? Only you, madam—only you! You showed him how
to open the door, and if the Treasure had not killed him he would have
died down there as Miss Sayle was meant to die! No food, no water, and
no way out—it would not have taken long!’

There was a silence. Miss Olivia broke it.

‘If you had not followed me that night you would have known nothing, and
you could have done nothing. You have been a long time in my service.
Not as long as Anna, but long enough. I think you killed my sister. How
do you expect me to reward you for that?’

He stood staring at her. She went on in the same toneless voice.

‘If my plan had succeeded, I would have rewarded you and sent you away,
but now—if Candida lives, there is nothing for either of us. She will
have Underhill, and she will marry and have children to come after her.
She should have been dead, but I think she is alive, and there is
nothing more that I can do. So you shall have your reward for killing my
sister.’

It was when Joseph cried out that he had never laid a hand on Alan
Thompson that Inspector Rock came up quietly behind Miss Silver and Mr.
Tampling. At Miss Olivia’s words he pushed past the end of the screen
and strode into the room.




                           Chapter Forty-two


Candida lay on her bed and Stephen knelt beside her. Her hand clung to
his. If she shut her eyes she might slip back into the dream again. He
said, ‘I won’t let you,’ and she held his hand.

Anna came in with a tray, and she drank the most delicious draught she
had ever tasted—hot milky tea to assuage her thirst and comfort her
parched throat. Anna was crying. She tried not to, but the tears ran
down. She took up one of Candida’s hands and kissed it, and went away
back to the kitchen to boil an egg and make toast. When she was gone,
Candida caught at Stephen’s arm.

‘Will you take me away from here? I can’t stay in this house. I don’t
want to see it again—_ever!_’

He said,

‘You shan’t—I’ll see to that. Louisa Arnold will take you in. I’ll
drive you out there as soon as you’ve had something to eat.’

She was sitting up now with his arm round her.

‘I’m all right—I’m quite strong—I only want to get away.’

She pressed against him and dropped her voice. ‘It was Alan
Thompson—there in the passage—wasn’t it?’

He nodded.

‘I expect so. There’s a spring that brings the lid of the chest down if
anyone touches the Treasure. He grabbed at it, and it killed him.’

‘How—horrible! But it wasn’t—murder—’

He said slowly and doubtfully, ‘I—don’t—know—’

‘What do you mean?’

‘I don’t think anyone laid hands on him. But do you think Miss Olivia
meant to let him live and marry her sister? How do you suppose he knew
how to open that hidden door? We only found it by a lucky chance, and
that’s not the sort of thing you would expect to happen twice.’

‘Aunt Cara might have shown him the way.’

‘If she had she would have warned him not to touch the treasure. There’s
a rhyme about it, isn’t there—

                        ‘ “Touch not nor take,
                        For dear life’s sake”?’

‘Yes—yes, there is.’

He said grimly,

‘I think Miss Olivia showed him the secret door, and I think she meant
him to touch—and take what was coming to him.’

A shudder ran over her.

‘Let’s get away, Stephen—quickly, quickly!’

Louisa Arnold was most agreeably thrilled. Apart from the fact that she
had an extremely kind heart, her house was to be enlivened by a love
affair, the solution of a three-years-old mystery, and by a really
shocking scandal. The love affair showed every sign of leading up to an
early wedding, and since Stephen was certainly a cousin, and Candida an
orphan, from what house could they more suitably be married? She had her
mother’s wedding-veil laid away in lavender—and there could never have
been a happier marriage than hers to dear Papa. As to the solution of
the mystery, there seemed to be no doubt that the skeleton found in
Underhill was that of poor Alan Thompson, and in regard to the scandal,
there really never had been one of so resounding a nature. Was it
possible that Miss Olivia Benevent was actually suspected of having
murdered her sister?

There was a school of thought which answered this question in the
affirmative but softened the conclusion by declaring Miss Olivia to be
out of her mind. By others the part of first murderer was assigned to
Joseph, and a good many people discovered that they had always thought
there was something sinister about him. It having become known that Miss
Silver had accompanied the police during their search of Underhill,
Louisa Arnold found herself in the enviable position of being considered
a positive Fount of Information. It was gratifying in the extreme, but
she did feel that dear Maud might have given her a little more to come
and go upon. Discretion was all very well, but who more reliable than
one’s own cousin? And to sum it all up, ‘Dear Papa always told me
everything.’

At the news that the inquest had been adjourned, Miss Louisa restrained
herself no longer.

‘Do you mean to tell me that nobody has been arrested?’

Miss Silver had embarked upon a jumper in a particularly pleasing shade
of blue for her niece Ethel Burkett. About an inch of it stuck out from
the needles like a frill. The wool was exceptionally soft, and she was
trying a new pattern. She looked mildly at Louisa and said,

‘Joseph Rossi has been detained.’

‘Detained! And what’s the good of that, I should like to know! Do you
mean to tell me that he didn’t murder poor Cara and then pretend she had
been killed by falling down the stairs?’

‘The police will have to decide whether there is a case that they can
take into court.’

Miss Louisa tossed her head.

‘He probably killed poor Alan Thompson too!’

‘I do not think so.’

Louisa Arnold leaned forward.

‘Do you know, I saw one of those chests in a museum. I am so vexed that
I can’t remember where it was, but it was during that trip that Papa and
I took the year after Mamma died. We only had a fortnight, and we saw so
many places that they all ran together in my head and I can’t remember
where I saw that chest, but it was just like what everyone is saying
about the one at Underhill. There was a spring in the lid, and if you
touched anything in the chest there was a horrible sort of hasp that
came down and hit you. And they say that this is what Alan Thompson must
have done. Unless you really do think Joseph killed him.’

Miss Silver made no reply, and after a moment Louisa continued her
speculations.

‘Do you know, the thing I find hardest to understand is the part about
poor Cara. I just can’t believe she went down into a dark cellar in the
middle of the night—unless she was walking in her sleep. Do you think
she was?’

‘I think she was looking for Alan Thompson, but whether she was awake or
asleep, I cannot say. She may have been suspecting his death for a long
time. She may have been very much afraid, and she may suddenly have felt
that she could not bear the suspense any longer.’

There was a pause. Louisa’s voice went down into a whisper. She said,

‘Do you think—Olivia killed her?’

‘Oh, no. There was no reason for her to do so. Miss Cara’s death was the
greatest misfortune that could have happened to her.’

‘Well, it wasn’t the chest. Cara wouldn’t have touched it with poor Alan
lying there dead.’

‘No.’

The whisper became insistent.

‘Then it was Joseph.’

Miss Silver said, ‘That is not for us to say.’

Miss Arnold flushed. The effect, with her white hair and blue eyes, was
becoming, but it conveyed the fact that her patience was now exhausted.

‘And I suppose you will not talk about Olivia either?’

‘I believe it would be better if we did not discuss her at the moment,
Louisa.’

Louisa Arnold really was obliged to leave the room.

Others were, unfortunately, compelled to discuss Miss Olivia Benevent.
When all was said and done, there was only the slightest evidence on
which to build a case against her. Miss Silver and Mr. Tampling had
stood behind a screen and heard Joseph and Miss Olivia accuse one
another. What they said could be true, or it could be false, for each
denied what the other had said. When, just at the end, Miss Olivia said,
‘If Candida lives, there will be nothing for either of us. She will have
Underhill, and she will marry and have children to come after her. She
should have been dead, but I think she is alive, and there is nothing
more that I can do.’ When she said that, there was an admission which
could perhaps have been used. But it rested upon Miss Silver’s evidence
alone, since Mr. Tampling, appealed to for confirmation, declared
himself unable to supply it. They were at some distance from the
speakers, and he felt himself quite unable to swear to anything that had
been said. Not that he wished to cast any doubt upon Miss Silver’s
recollection. She appeared to be a most accurate and observant person,
but he must really not be asked to swear to anything himself.

And then, whilst all this was going on, Olivia Benevent died. There was
no blurring of her senses. She had set aside a legacy for Joseph, a
legacy for Anna, and she asked to see Candida Sayle. But Candida was
out, and when she came she came too late. They did not tell her of Miss
Olivia’s last words. She sat propped up against half a dozen pillows,
and when she knew that Candida would be too late she used her hard-won
breath to say,

‘I wanted to curse her. She would have remembered that.’




                          Chapter Forty-three


Miss Silver had rather a touching interview with Mr. Puncheon. She was
hardly prepared for the warmth of his gratitude or the generous size of
the fee which he pressed upon her acceptance.

‘It will be very good of you if you will take it,’ he said. ‘My sister
is comfortably provided for, and I have no other kith or kin. If poor
Alan had been different and had lived, I should have left him what I
have, so it is only right that you should accept a proper reward for
clearing his name. The false accusation against him killed my wife. It
not only did that, but—’ He hesitated, took off his glasses, and looked
at her with moistened eyes. ‘I wonder if you will understand me when I
say that it seemed to come between us. I could take no comfort in
recollecting the happy times we had had together—the trouble about Alan
seemed to cloud it all. But now that he is cleared, I have that comfort
again. I think I told you that I was very fond of my wife. Perhaps you
can understand how I feel.’

Miss Silver understood very well. She said so with great kindness.

The case of Joseph Rossi was a considerable headache for the police.
Though it was extremely probable that he had murdered Miss Cara to
prevent her giving the alarm and bringing Alan Thompson’s death and the
whereabouts of the Treasure to light, there really was a conspicuous
lack of any evidence likely to secure a verdict of guilty if he were
brought before a jury. Miss Silver had heard Miss Olivia accuse him, but
he had denied the accusation, and being dead she could not be called
upon to substantiate it. It was remembered that she had brought a
similar and quite unfounded accusation against her niece Miss Candida
Sayle. The papers went to the Public Prosecutor, and they probably gave
him a headache too. The whole thing smelled to heaven, but where was the
evidence? Miss Cara Benevent had been found dead with her skull smashed
in, and the body had certainly been moved. There was the evidence of one
witness to a conversation between Miss Olivia Benevent and Joseph Rossi,
according to which the moving of the body was admitted between them, but
the defence would of course represent this action in quite another light
than that of guilt. Confronted by a terrible emergency, an old lady and
her devoted servant had taken what steps they might to preserve a long
treasured family secret. It had probably never occurred to them that
they were doing anything illegal. All very easy and plausible.

The iron bar, which might have supplied some evidence, was, to put it
baldly, a washout. It bore traces of having been used to cause the fatal
injury, but it was too deeply rusted to carry any man’s fingerprints.
How it came to the place where it was found, there was nothing to show.
It could have been snatched up by Joseph Rossi and used to silence a
frightened woman, or it could have been in some way part of the trap
which guarded the Benevento Treasure. Word went back to the county
police that there was not sufficient grounds for a prosecution, and
Joseph Rossi was discharged.

He walked in upon his wife Anna, who was still at the house in Retley
where Miss Olivia had died. There was some good furniture there, and Mr.
Tampling was paying her a wage as caretaker. She had opened the door,
and he was in the hall almost before she realised that it was he.

‘You don’t seem very pleased to see me,’ he said.

She had turned very pale. She went back a step.

‘It is just—that I am—surprised.’

He went through into the kitchen and sat down.

‘Well, cook me a meal—and it had better be a good one! How much money
have you got in the house?’

She stood on the other side of the table and stared at him.

‘I don’t know.’

The words were slow and reluctant. His came back quick and cold.

‘Then find out! I’m not staying here to be pointed at! I’ll take what
you’ve got and be off! You can send me more later! Did Miss Olivia leave
you anything?’

She would have liked to lie, but she was too much afraid. Her eyes
widened in her dark, anxious face.

‘I—she—’

‘She did! How much?’

‘It was just—some money—in a parcel—’

‘I said, “How much?” ’

She moistened her lips with her tongue.

‘It was—a hundred pounds—in notes.’

He reached across the table and caught her by the wrist.

‘You are lying! Even she wouldn’t do that—after forty years!’

She tried to step back, but he held her.

‘There is money to come when the lawyer has settled everything. An
annuity—for me.’

‘How much?’

‘I do not know. They say I will be taken care of. There is something for
you too—a parcel with money in it. There was one for you and one for
me. She gave them to me when she was dying.’

He let go of her wrist.

‘Get them!’

She went without a word, her mind in a confusion of fear. She had always
been afraid of Joseph—always. But at Underhill there had been Miss
Olivia over them both, and even Joseph had been afraid of Miss Olivia.
Now there was no one but him and her, and the money between them. He
would take the money, hers as well as his, and she would be left. That
was better than if he made her go with him—much, much better. There was
a trembling in her limbs when she thought that he might make her go with
him.

She was talking to herself as she went up the stairs.

‘No, Anna, no, he does not want you—he has never wanted you. And you
need not go. You can say that you must stay here and get the money that
is to come from the lawyer. Yes, you can say that. But he will not want
you to come.’

The money was in the room that she was using, put away under the
mattress of the bed. She got it out now. There were two parcels, done up
with paper and string and written on in Miss Olivia’s hand, ‘Anna’ on
the one, and ‘Joseph’ on the other. The packet marked ‘Anna’ was much
thinner and flatter than the other. She had opened it and done it up
again, so that she knew exactly what was in it—twenty five-pound notes
doubled in half and laid in a little cardboard box. She had seen the box
in Miss Olivia’s hand a week before she died.

The other parcel was much bulkier. It too had been prepared beforehand,
only the name had been put on it after Miss Olivia had been taken ill.
Anna’s legacy was already addressed, but it was a dying hand that had
written Joseph’s name.

He looked up as she came back into the kitchen with the packages in
either hand. He had lighted a cigarette, and the smoke and the acrid
smell of it hung upon the air. He rolled his own cigarettes and he liked
them strong. He looked at her package first.

‘You have opened it?’

‘Yes.’

‘You said there was a hundred pounds.’

‘Yes.’

He took his own and tore the paper off. A bundle of dirty one-pound
notes came into view and he stared at them. They might have come from
some low gambling dive. They reeked of tobacco. It was difficult to
believe that Miss Olivia could have brought herself to handle them.
There was no message, no enclosure of any kind, only his name on the
outside wrapping. He laid down his cigarette on the table and began to
count them. The notes must have got damp, for they stuck to one another.
He licked his forefinger to separate them. He had a trick of it when he
counted money, or even when he turned the pages of a book. That the
notes were rank did not disturb him unduly. The finger went to his mouth
again and again.

‘Thirty—thirty-one—thirty-two—’

He thought there would be a hundred. With Anna’s hundred, not too bad,
and there was the annuity to come.

He went on with his counting.

‘Forty—forty-one—forty-two—’

The cigarette smoke came up in his throat and nose. He waved it away.

‘Fifty—fifty-one—fifty-two—’

He began to lose count.

‘Sixty-five—sixty-seven—sixty-nine—’

Anna stood on the other side of the table and watched his finger rise
and fall. She saw the sweat come on his brow. His voice wandered, and
the notes fell from his hand. He said, ‘I’m ill.’ And then, on a gasping
breath, ‘I’m—poisoned—’ His eyes accused her. His voice would have
accused Olivia Benevent, but it choked in his throat.

He was dead before the doctor came.




                           Chapter Forty-four


Retley buzzed. There was another inquest, and another funeral at which
there would no doubt have been the usual gathering together of the
morbid-minded if it had not taken place at eight o’clock in the morning
and the secret very well kept. As it was, a mere handful of people
drifted in to watch Anna in a long black veil stand with bowed head
above Joseph Rossi’s grave. Miss Silver stood beside her, extending the
kindly support she was so well fitted to give. She had removed the bunch
of flowers from her second-best hat, which like all her other hats was
plain in shape and black in colour, and had further satisfied her sense
of decorum by the substitution of a plain black woollen scarf for the
yellowish fur tippet which usually completed her winter coat. She would
not let Anna go through such an ordeal alone, and nothing could have
been kinder than voice and manner as, the ceremony completed, she led
her back to where her niece Nellie awaited them with breakfast laid out
on the table and a good strong brew of tea. Nellie had been perfectly
willing to come down, and she would take Anna back with her, but go to
Joseph Rossi’s funeral she would not.

‘And I’m sure it’s ever so good of you to do it, Miss Silver, but I
couldn’t, not for anything in the world. If ever anyone was well rid of
a murdering good-for-nothing, it’s poor Auntie, and the less said about
it the better.’

Candida saw them before they left Retley. Anna was to have a pension,
but to her tearful protestations that all she wanted was to come back
and serve her dear Miss Candida there was no response.

Candida Sayle had very little response for anyone during this time. She
went to Derek Burdon’s wedding, which was also at eight in the morning,
and she kissed him and Jenny and wished them well, but her lips were
cold and her eyes looked far away. She sat in Mr. Tampling’s office and
discussed the necessary business in what was almost a mechanical manner.
Since she would never live at Underhill, would he please suggest what
could be done with the place. He looked at her with concern. She was not
wearing black, but in her plain grey coat and skirt she had the air of a
mourning ghost. The bright colour which he remembered with admiration
was all gone. There were violent shadows under the eyes which seemed to
look past him.

‘The house has been in the family for a very long time.’

She said, ‘Too long—’ And then, ‘I don’t want to have anything to do
with it—ever. Or with the things that were found there—that horrible
Treasure.’

‘It is extremely valuable, Miss Sayle.’

‘Yes. It has cost people’s lives—I don’t want to have anything to do
with it. I thought perhaps the Retley museum—’

He felt a secret excitement and satisfaction, but he constrained himself
to say soberly,

‘It might be considered. But you should not do anything in a hurry. In
any case, probate must be obtained before you can make any disposal.
Since the things may be considered to be in the nature of heirlooms, it
may not be in your power to make an outright gift, but the museum would
doubtless be very glad to have them on loan, and meanwhile they are
perfectly safe in the County Bank.’

It was after this interview that Stephen found it increasingly difficult
to see her. With arrears of work to be overtaken, his time was not his
own, and when he did arrive at Miss Arnold’s house in the evening it
would be to find that Candida had gone to bed early, or that she sat
through the meal eating practically nothing, only to slip away as soon
as it was over.

‘I’m sorry, but I don’t feel like talking.’ Or, ‘It’s no good—I’m
really too tired.’

As the door closed behind her, Miss Louisa was voluble in explanation.

‘Well, you see, my dear boy, she has had a shock, and you must give her
time to get over it. I recollect a cousin of ours who was just the same
after her engagement was broken off. You will remember her, Maud—Lily
Mottram—really a very sweet creature, but a little inclined to be
melancholy. Well, as I said, after her engagement was broken off they
really thought she was going into a decline. He had a good deal of money
and a nice place in Derbyshire—or was it Dorset—but I’m afraid _not_
very steady, so perhaps it was all for the best. But she didn’t sleep
and she didn’t eat, and they really didn’t know what to do with her,
only fortunately she met a very nice steady young man who was a partner
in a shipping firm, so it all turned out very well in the end, and I
think they had six children. At least I know there were five, because
when the fifth one arrived she wanted to call him Quintus, but her
husband didn’t like the idea at all. I believe they had quite a tiff
about it.’

Just how this rather tactless anecdote could be said to apply to himself
and Candida, Stephen could not determine. A little later, Miss Arnold
having left the room, he addressed himself to Miss Silver.

‘Look here, we can’t go on like this. I’ve got to see her. She goes and
sees Tampling—she sees other people. It’s only when I come along that
she’s too tired to sit up any longer and has to go to bed.’

Miss Silver looked at him kindly across Ethel Burkett’s blue jumper.

‘She has had a shock.’

‘Of course she’s had a shock. We’ve all had shocks, but we don’t go on
having them. She ought to want to see me, and she doesn’t. There’s
something on her mind, and I want to know what it is. If I could see
her—really see her—’

‘Yes, I think it would be advisable.’ She devoted a moment to
consideration, and then continued. ‘I think it possible that Louisa and
I may be out at tea-time tomorrow. There is an expedition we have talked
of making—a visit to the daughter of an old family friend at Laleham.
We thought of hiring a car. It is practically settled, and the final
details can be arranged on the telephone. Could you be free at
tea-time?’

‘Yes. I’ve got to see her.’

She said very composedly,

‘Then it will be best if you just walk in. I will see that the door is
left unlocked.’

He came into his cousin’s drawing-room next day to find Candida behind
the tea-table. At the moment of his entry Eliza Peck was setting down a
Victorian teapot and hot water-jug.

‘Just happened to see him, and the kettle on the boil, so I made the tea
and stepped along, for I said to myself, “Well, the door’s not locked,
and if he doesn’t know how to let himself in by now he never will do,
and that’s that.” ’

Candida sat pale and silent until the door was shut and they were alone.
Then she said,

‘How did she know you were here?’

Stephen laughed.

‘Saw me out of the window, I should think. Now, darling, what is all
this?’

‘I told you not to come.’

‘And Miss Silver told me she and Cousin Louisa would be out to tea.’

‘She hadn’t any business to.’

Stephen insinuated himself on to the sofa beside her.

‘Darling, if Miss Silver always confined herself to minding her own
business, I’ve got an idea that quite a lot of people would be sorry,
ourselves included.’

Candida edged away from him. When she had got as far as she could she
turned to face him, her hands clasped tightly in her lap.

‘I didn’t want to see you, because I wanted to think.’

‘And have you thought?’

She had perhaps expected a protest. What she got was a look of grave
attention. Perhaps this was going to be easier than she had expected. It
was strange that this should make her feel as if nothing mattered any
more. She said in a low shaken voice,

‘Yes, I’ve thought.’

‘Well?’

‘I’m going away.’

‘Where are you going to?’

She took as deep a breath as she could.

‘There’s someone who used to work for Aunt Barbara—she has a room that
she lets. I thought I’d go there.’

‘It doesn’t sound like a good place to be married from.’

She looked at him in a lost kind of way.

‘Stephen, I don’t think I can marry you.’

‘Is that what you were thinking about?’

‘Yes.’

‘What a waste of time. I don’t love you any more—or you don’t love me
any more? Which is it?’

She shook her head.

‘No—it’s not that. It—it’s all the things that have been happening.
They are Benevent things—they haven’t got anything to do with you. I
don’t think you ought to be dragged into them. I don’t think there ought
to be any more Benevents.’

He nodded.

‘A plague-stricken lot. And you propose to go into quarantine for the
rest of your life—is that it?’

‘Something like that.’

‘Then it’s about the most morbid thing I ever heard in my life! Do you
suppose there is a family on this earth who couldn’t rake up a bad hat
or two if they really went to work? Look here, darling, I take it you’ve
heard Cousin Louisa talk about the Benevent sisters. Your grandmother
broke away, and she was all right. Cara was in Olivia’s pocket. She
would always have been in somebody’s pocket—it was just too bad that it
happened to be Olivia’s. And look at Olivia herself. All that force and
determination and will, and no outlet except to boss Miss Cara! Their
father paid their bills, but he never gave them a penny to spend for
themselves. Louisa says they had to go to him for money to put in the
plate at church. That kind of tyranny does things to people—they either
break away, or it breaks them. Or they turn into tyrants themselves as
soon as they get a chance, and that’s what happened to Olivia. Our
children are not going to be like that, if that is what you were
thinking about.’

She said, ‘No—’ on a long shaken breath. And then, ‘No—they
won’t—will they?’

He took her hands, and felt how cold they were.

‘Darling, do come off it! It’s such a waste of time! You’ve had a shock,
and we’ve all been through hell, but it’s over. What do you suppose I
felt like when I knew you were somewhere under that damned hill and I
didn’t know whether you were dead or alive? Do you suppose there is any
need for you to rub it in? But it’s over, finished, done with, unless we
keep digging it up and making ourselves go through it again. We’ve got
our lives before us, and we are going to make a good job of
them—together. We’re going to be happy.’

The resistance had gone out of her. She let him put his arms round her
and felt the past slip by them and away.

                                