Miss Silver looked across the tea-tray a good deal in the manner of the
affectionate aunt who entertains a deserving nephew, but the young man
who leaned forward to take the cup of tea which she had just poured out
for him was not really related to her in any way. He was, in fact,
Detective Inspector Frank Abbott of Scotland Yard, enjoying a Sunday
afternoon off duty and very much at his ease. It would have been
difficult to guess his profession. He might have been in the Army, the
Navy, or the Foreign Office, he might have been at the Bar. For the rest
he wore discreet and beautiful clothes of a most admirable cut, and his
tall, slim figure accommodated itself with the ease of long custom to
the largest of Miss Silver’s curly walnut chairs, whose spreading laps
and carved encircling arms were so much more comfortable than they
looked. The cool light eyes set in a pale irregular face softened
noticeably as they rested upon his hostess. He admired her—his own word
would have been revered. She entertained, she amused, she instructed,
she provided his sense of humour with unfailing food, but even in his
most irreverent moments he never ceased to feel a profound respect for
her.

She smiled at him now and inquired whether he had enjoyed his leave.

‘You were staying in Ledshire, were you not, for at least part of the
time? The cards you sent me revived quite a number of memories. The one
of the Market Place at Ledlington——’

He laughed.

‘The view of Sir Albert’s trousers is superb, isn’t it?’

Since the statue of Sir Albert Dawnish which dominates the square is
known to be one of England’s leading eyesores, Miss Silver did not
encourage this frivolity. She remarked instead that the Dawnish Quick
Cash Stores had become a national institution, and that Ledlington, and
in fact the whole county, had benefited by Sir Albert’s generous
disposal of his wealth. After which she returned to the question of his
holiday.

‘Did you see anything of the Marches?’

‘I was invited to a cocktail party. The cousins I was staying with were
going. I saw the Chief Constable, the beautiful Rietta, and the son and
heir. And the infant daughter. It was being handed round with the
drinks. A pleasant gurgling child. It stuck a fist in my eye and said
“Goo!” ’

Miss Silver beamed.

‘They are so delighted to have a little girl. Only-children are a great
mistake. Were you staying with cousins all the time?’

He reached for one of Hannah’s scones, feather light and sinfully
enriched with both butter and honey.

‘Cousins? Yes—but not the same ones all the time. I always forget just
how many children my great-grandfather had, but I believe I am as well
provided with relations as any man in England, to say nothing of the
Scottish and Irish branches and a few adventurous spirits who have
scattered themselves over the Commonwealth and the United States. As
they are all very matey and hospitable, I need never pay a hotel bill,
and holidays come cheap. I did three separate lots this time and
finished up with Joyce Rodney, who is really only a step-cousin but we
used to be rather good friends.’

He put down his cup and Miss Silver filled it again. She said, ‘Yes?’ in
a mildly interrogative tone, and he laughed.

‘ “Yes” it is, though I don’t know how you spotted it. But then I never
do. As a matter of fact Joyce was worried, and I would rather like to
talk the business over with you.’ He took a sandwich and dismissed her
murmured ‘If you think that she would not mind’ with a quick ‘No, no,
she will be only too glad. She isn’t used to anything of the sort, and
it is getting her down.’

She sat back in the chair which was the feminine counterpart of his own
and waited. He thought what strange stories this tranquil room had
heard. The Victorian pictures on the walls—_Hope_, _The Black
Brunswicker_, _The Soul’s Awakening_, the old-fashioned furniture,
reproduced the atmosphere of an older and less hurried day before the
aeroplane brought the countries of the world so close together that they
must either learn to live together in peace or rush upon some final
conflagration. Carpet and curtains repeated as nearly as possible the
colour and pattern of those which had originally companioned the
furniture, their predominant shade a cheerful peacock-blue, modified in
the carpet by wreaths of pink and yellow flowers. The workmanlike
writing-table and the numerous photographs with which mantelpiece,
bookcases, and occasional tables were crowded testified to the
profession which had provided this modest comfort. There had been a time
when Miss Silver had engaged in what she always alluded to as the
scholastic profession, when she had in fact been a private governess
with no other expectation than that of spending her life in other
people’s houses until such time as she retired on what must perforce
have been very meagre savings. That the way should have been opened for
her to become a private enquiry agent she regarded as providential. She
became known to an increasing circle, she earned a sufficient income,
she had her flat, her comforts, her attached house-keeper Hannah
Meadows. She had a great many devoted friends. The photographs in frames
of silver, of plush, of silver filagree on plush, testified to this.
Many frightened people had sat where Frank Abbott was sitting now.
Strange stories had been stammered out in this quiet room, and in the
upshot virtue had been vindicated, crime exposed, and justice done in
the manner of the Victorian tract. Always conscious of these things,
Frank found them very much in evidence as he said, ‘Joyce has recently
gone to live at Tilling Green. She lost her husband out in the Middle
East—he was working for one of the big oil companies. There is a
delicate child and no money. She has no near relations of her own, and
she went to Tilling because Jack Rodney had an elderly cousin there who
offered her a home.’

Miss Silver said, ‘Yes?’ again.

‘She wrote very kindly—Joyce said it was like a gift from heaven. She
couldn’t take a job unless it was something she could do at home,
because the child needed great care. Miss Wayne offered a home and a
small salary in return for duties about the house. I gather she does a
pretty full day’s work—hens to feed, cooking, and all the rest of
it—but she doesn’t complain about anything so long as it’s all right
for the child.’

Miss Silver, having finished her tea, picked up a brightly flowered
knitting-bag and extracted from it four needles from which depended
about an inch of what was intended to be a child’s jumper in a pleasing
shade of blue. Her niece Ethel Burkett’s little Josephine would be seven
in a month’s time, and the garment was part of the twin set which had
been planned as a birthday gift. She could always knit and listen at the
same time, her hands held low in her lap, the needles moving
rhythmically and at great speed. She said now in her pleasant voice,
‘And there is something wrong?’

He nodded.

‘She has been getting anonymous letters.’

‘My dear Frank!’

‘It is always unpleasant, and of course no one knows better than you
that it can be a symptom of something very nasty indeed.’

‘What are the letters about?’

He lifted a hand and let it fall again.

‘She has torn them up—the usual instinct to get rid of something
horrid.’

‘But I suppose she would have given you some idea of the contents?’

‘One of them was about her husband. He died rather
suddenly—heat-stroke, I think. The letter suggested that it wasn’t a
natural death. There have been two of them. The second went on to accuse
her of having come to Tilling to “catch another man”.’

Miss Silver permitted herself to say ‘Dear me!’ and added, ‘Has she
confided in Miss Wayne?’

‘She hasn’t told anyone—except me. You know what those poison-pen
letters are—very unpleasant. Miss Wayne is a prim, mousey little thing
who couldn’t say boo to a goose. There was an elder sister who died some
months ago. I gather it was she who invited Joyce to come to Willow
Cottage. She was the elder and always took the lead in everything. As
far as the village is concerned, she will go on being Miss Wayne to the
end of the chapter, and the other little creature will continue to be
Miss Renie.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘Is there someone who dislikes Mrs Rodney, or who has any reason to
resent her presence in Tilling?’

‘I can’t imagine why anyone should dislike Joyce. She is one of those
pleasant girls—nice to look at without being a beauty, intelligent
without being a brain. In fact there are no extremes—nothing to rouse
up the sort of enmity which the letters suggest. People are usually
sorry for a young widow. She doesn’t make a parade of her mourning, but
she was very fond of her husband and she is devoted to the little boy.
Miss Wayne has lived there a long time and knows everyone in the
neighbourhood. Joyce says they have all been very kind.’

Miss Silver’s gaze rested upon him mildly.

‘You say Miss Wayne does not know about these letters?’

‘Oh, no. She is a timid person—it would alarm and distress her very
much.’

‘Has Mrs Rodney any suspicions?’

‘None whatever.’

‘And you yourself?’

His colourless eyebrows rose.

‘I was there for four days. I was taken to a jumble sale at the village
hall. I attended morning service on the Sunday, and was afterwards
introduced to several people whom I had missed at the sale. We were
invited to tea at the Manor. I have no reason to suspect the parson, the
verger, or any of the estimable middle-aged and elderly ladies who
assist them to run the parish. In fact I have no reason to suspect
anyone—how should I have?’

She continued to look at him in a thoughtful manner.

‘These things do not always depend upon reason.’

His eyes displayed a sardonic gleam.

‘Woman’s intuition? I’m afraid I can’t compete. I don’t know the exact
figures for the current year, but speaking generally, there are about
two million more women than men in the country. Terrifying to reflect
that they are all at it day in, day out, exercising this formidable
gift!’

Miss Silver considered that he was not really providing her with very
much in the way of information. She said in a meditative voice, ‘A
jumble sale—the Sunday morning congregation—the Manor—that would
cover a good deal of ground in a village. What is the family at the
Manor?’

He gave her an appreciative glance.

‘As you say, quite a lot of ground. The Manor is an old one, and the
family has been there a long time. The name used to be Deverell, but
somewhere in the last century the male line died out altogether and a
Repton came in through a marriage with the heiress. He refused to change
his name, so they have gone on being Reptons. They were very nicely to
do until the property got split up again about thirty years ago, when
the direct line ended with a woman who got all the money and the place
went to a male cousin who is the present incumbent. He is Colonel Roger
Repton. He is pretty hard up, and he is a guardian—the heiress having
died—to her daughter, a girl called Valentine Grey, who has come in for
the family fortune. Attractive creature fluttering on the edge of
matrimony with one Gilbert Earle, a chap in the Foreign Office who will
probably be the next Lord Brangston and would certainly be able to do
with the money, since the present man has a string of five daughters to
provide for. He called them after flowers, and I gather they neither
marry nor work for a living. I have met them in my time, sitting out
whilst other girls danced. To the best of my recollection they are
called Violet, Daffodil, Rosemary, Daphne, and Artemisia.’

The last name elicited a mild protest.

‘My dear Frank!’

‘Cross my heart ma’am, they call her Artie—I swear it!’

She drew on the blue ball.

‘Let us return to Tilling Green.’

‘By all means. There are also living at the Manor Colonel Roger’s
sister, Miss Maggie Repton, the kind of sister who clings to the place
where she was born and brought up because it has simply never occurred
to her to go anywhere or do anything. She does keep house with a good
deal of inefficiency, because young Mrs Repton won’t do it at all.’

‘There is a young Mrs Repton?’

‘There is indeed—the decorative Scilla! One of the things I haven’t
discovered is whether she spells it like the flower, or in the classical
manner like Scylla and Charybdis. You see, quite a lot might depend on
that.’

Miss Silver saw, but she made no comment. He continued.

‘Roger was considered to have made a fool of himself when he married
her. She is definitely not what you would expect to find in Tilling
Green, and she makes no secret of the fact that the country bores her
and she yearns for town. I imagine she didn’t know how little money
there was going to be—especially when Valentine got married.’

‘That will make a difference?’

‘Oh, yes. I understand that she contributes very handsomely to the
expenses.’

Miss Silver went on knitting.

‘Just why are you telling me all this?’ she said.

He smiled with a spice of malice.

‘Don’t I always tell you everything?’

‘Not unless you have a reason for doing so.’

‘Perhaps I wanted to talk it out for my own benefit. Putting things into
words straightens them out, and—you are always stimulating!’

She said, ‘I am wondering why you have described the household at the
Manor whilst leaving the jumble sale and the congregation undescribed.’

‘One can’t describe everyone.’

‘But you began with the Manor.’

If he hesitated, it was only for a moment.

‘It was probably because one of the letters mentioned Gilbert Earle.’

‘What did it say?’

‘I didn’t see it—I told you that. Joyce didn’t keep either of them. But
as far as my information goes it accused her of trying to attract
him—throwing herself at his head, that sort of thing, only I gather in
rather more unvarnished language. The anonymous letter writer doesn’t
generally worry about keeping the party clean.’

‘And does Mrs Rodney know Mr Earle well?’

‘She knows him. He’s down there constantly at weekends. But as a matter
of fact she met him abroad some years ago when she was first married.
They have friends and acquaintances in common. He has occasionally seen
her home from the Manor or after some village do. There is nothing in it
or ever has been, I am sure about that.’

‘Would Miss Valentine Grey be equally sure? Or young Mrs Repton?’

He laughed.

‘I don’t know about Scilla Repton, but I don’t think Valentine is in the
least likely to object to Gilbert seeing other people home. There
doesn’t seem to be a general impression that she is head over ears in
love with him. There was someone else—the parson’s nephew, one of the
here today and gone tomorrow type. He and Valentine were pretty thick.
And then he just vanished from the scene. Didn’t come, didn’t write, and
Gilbert Earle began to make the running. Now she is going to marry him.
Joyce says her heart isn’t in it.’

‘Are they friends?’

‘Yes, I think they are——’ He hesitated, ‘Joyce hasn’t a great deal of
time, you know. What with running the house, taking the child to
kindergarten and fetching him again, well——’

Miss Silver murmured agreement.

‘I am glad to hear that the little boy is well enough to go to school.’

‘Yes, Joyce is very happy about it. He seems to have taken quite a turn.
It is so good for him to be with other children.’

She made no comment upon this. After a moment she inquired, ‘Do you know
whether anyone else in Tilling has received an anonymous letter?’

He appeared faintly startled.

‘Why do you ask that?’

‘My dear Frank, you must surely see that it is a most important point.
Such letters as you describe are instigated by a desire for power, or by
either a personal or a general spite. If the motive is a personal one it
may wear itself out or at any rate go no further, but if it proceeds
from a desire for power or from a general spite there is no saying where
it will stop or how much mischief it may do.’

He said briefly, ‘That’s what worries me.’

‘Mrs Rodney has not thought of taking the matter to the police?’

He pushed back his chair.

‘She wouldn’t hear of it. It would be very much resented in the village.
I think it might make her position there impossible. Everyone has been
very friendly, and the child is getting on so well.’ He got up and put
down his cup. ‘I don’t know why I bothered you about it. It will
probably all fizzle out.’




                                  TWO


Of the two newspapers subscribed to by Miss Silver it was her habit to
peruse the lighter and more pictorial at breakfast, reserving the solid
fare provided by _The Times_ for a later and more leisured hour. It was
about ten days after Frank Abbott had tea with her that her eye was
caught by a headline which displayed the name of Tilling Green:

                        INQUEST AT TILLING GREEN

She had often noticed how singularly an unfamiliar name, once noted, is
apt to recur. She read the paragraph with interest. A young woman had
been found drowned in a stretch of ornamental water belonging to the
grounds of the Manor House. Her name was Doris Pell, and she neither
resided at the Manor nor was employed there. She lived with an aunt, and
they carried on a business as dress-makers in a small way. The evidence
reported her as having been greatly distressed by the receipt of
anonymous letters accusing her of immorality, an accusation for which,
the Coroner stated, there was no foundation—she was a perfectly
respectable girl. The police were pursuing enquiries as to the
authorship of the letters.

Miss Silver laid down the paper. A lamentable waste of a young life. She
contrasted, not for the first time, the extreme courage and tenacity of
purpose with which trouble is encountered in one case, and the ease with
which it is succumbed to in another. Since this dead girl had apparently
had the support of innocence, why had she put up no fight? The light
that beats upon a village is of course sufficiently unsparing—white is
white, and black is black, and a character once lost or even breathed
upon will continue to be doubted indefinitely. But youth should possess
some spring, some power of recovery, some ability to make a new
beginning. Her thought remained saddened for some time.

It was not until later in the day when she was dealing with her
correspondence that the matter was once more brought to her attention.
She was engaged with a letter from her niece Ethel Burkett. Raising, as
it did, the question of Ethel’s sister Gladys, whose by no means
harmonious relations with her husband Andrew Robinson were a perennial
source of anxiety, it was affording her grave reason for thought.

    ‘Dear Auntie,’ Ethel wrote, ‘I do not know whether Gladys has
    written to you, and I hate to trouble you with her affairs, but
    I really do think you have more influence with her than anyone
    else. A separation from Andrew would be _fatal_. He has been
    most tolerant and long-suffering and he has a horror of any
    scandal, but I have a feeling that if she were to go so far as
    to leave him, he would not readily take her back.’

It was at this point, and while Miss Silver was reflecting upon just how
far a selfish and headstrong young woman was likely to go in the process
of cutting off her nose to spite her own face, that the telephone bell
rang. She picked up the receiver and heard Frank Abbott say, ‘Hello! Is
that you?’

Having been reassured upon this point, he continued.

‘Then may I come and see you?... Thank you. I’ll be right along.’

She had no more than time to write what might be called an interim
letter to Ethel setting out the view that Gladys, having no money of her
own and being notoriously averse from anything in the nature of work,
would, in her opinion, hesitate to separate herself from Andrew’s very
comfortable income, when the door opened and Hannah announced, ‘Mr
Frank——’

She was, as always, affectionately pleased to see him, and he on his
side as affectionately at home.

When Miss Silver had settled herself in her chair and taken up her usual
knitting, he said, ‘Well, I don’t know whether you can guess what has
brought me.’

She inclined her head.

‘I have seen the paragraph about an inquest at Tilling Green.’

‘Stupid, damnable affair. More damnable than stupid, I should say. What
gets into any human being to make him—or her—set out to poison and
destroy! Do you know, I met this girl when I was down there. She had
come in to do some needlework for Miss Wayne. She was a sensitive, shy
creature—coloured up to the roots of her hair when I spoke to her.
Joyce had been good to her, and the girl obviously adored her.’

Miss Silver had seldom seen him with his surface cynicism so completely
broken through. The drawl was gone from his voice and the chill from his
glance. She said with a good deal of warmth, ‘My dear Frank——’

He nodded.

‘I am a fool, but it has got me on the raw. She was such an inoffensive
creature—plain, simple, kindly. And someone could take pleasure in
destroying her!’

She knitted thoughtfully.

‘Is there any suspicion of foul play?’

‘Not in the technical sense. The law does not call that sort of thing
murder. There seems no reason to doubt that she jumped into the lake and
drowned herself—“Whilst the balance of her mind was disturbed”! That,
as you will have seen, was the verdict. She had taken some work up to
the Manor. They say she seemed as usual.’ His shoulder jerked. ‘You may
have noticed that people always do say that kind of thing when anything
like this happens! There is a place where the drive crosses an
ornamental stream. The stream passes under a bridge and falls over rocks
to this lake they speak of. She must have jumped over the low parapet on
the lake side and hit her head. After which she drowned. As the verdict
says, she was off her balance, and the thing that drove her off her
balance is patent. That is what I have come to see you about.’

The blue frill which descended from the needles was lengthening. Miss
Silver said, ‘Yes?’

He spoke with a return to his usual manner. ‘You see, we’ve been asked
to send someone down there. I don’t know whether you remember, but about
five years ago there was a very nasty outbreak of this sort of thing
about ten miles away at Little Poynton. They had a couple of suicides
there and a lot of other trouble, and it was never satisfactorily
cleared up. They ended up by calling in the Yard. March has been on to
us officially about this Tilling business. It seems that several people
have had letters. He has got hold of two. One was posted in London. It
is one of the most recent and may provide a clue. After all, only a
small number of Tilling people can have been in Kensington on the day
when the letter was posted there.’

Miss Silver made a slight negative gesture.

‘I do not feel that a hardened writer of anonymous letters would provide
so obvious a clue.’

‘I don’t know—everyone slips up sometimes. Anyhow it’s all the clue
there is. The paper is cheap block stuff—ruled. Envelope rather better.
Writing big and thick, clumsy ill-formed letters—the experts say
left-handed. A sprinkling of spelling mistakes—probably deliberate. No
fingerprints except what you would expect—branch
office—postman—recipient. All very helpful!’ He leaned forward
suddenly. ‘Now what March suggests is that you go down there with the
official blessing and do your stuff. The Chief thinks it is a good idea,
and I am here to find out if you will take it on.’

She knitted in silence for a while, and then said, ‘I do not,
unfortunately, know anyone in the vicinity. It would be of no use for me
to go down unless my visit could be contrived to appear a natural one.’

‘The Miss Waynes occasionally took in a paying guest. One of them was a
Miss Cutler, now living in Chiswick. It could be arranged for you to
meet her in a casual manner, after which it would be child’s play to
induce her to recommend a country lodging. You could then write to Miss
Wayne and enquire whether she would be prepared to take you in.’

After a moment she said, ‘Miss Wayne is not to know?’

‘No one is to know, except Joyce. Miss Wayne least of all. She is
constitutionally timid and would never have a happy moment if she
thought she had a detective in the house.’

She looked at him gravely.

‘I do not know. I do not like the idea of my hostess being in ignorance.
It is in fact repugnant.’

‘My dear, ma’am, if your advent is to be broadcast!’

Her glance reproved him.

‘It would be a grave responsibility for Mrs Rodney. Is she prepared to
undertake it?’

‘She rang me up this morning from a call-box in Ledlington. She is very
much worried, very much upset about Doris Pell, very much afraid that
there may be further trouble. I had talked to her about you when she
first told me about the letters. She asked me if you could not come
down, and suggested this paying guest business. It seems Miss Wayne had
been speaking about Miss Cutler and saying she really thought she must
repeat what had been a very pleasant experience. So you see, it would be
quite easy.’

She drew upon her ball of wool.

‘Perhaps. But I would prefer that she should receive at the very least
some hint that my visit was a professional one.’

He said, ‘Impossible!’ and then relaxed into a laugh. ‘The fact is she
has one of those tongues which never really stop. You know—the gentle
trickle just going on and on. She wouldn’t mean to give anything
away—she probably wouldn’t know she was doing it—but you can’t talk
all the time and be safe with a secret. Joyce said it would be hopeless,
and that she really would be frightened to death. She is terrified
already about the letters—gets up in the night to see that the doors
are locked, doesn’t like being left alone in the house, all that sort of
thing. Joyce says she will jump at having an extra person there. And you
know, you couldn’t really do better. She has a cottage on the edge of
the Green—neighbours to right and to left of her, the village shop
within a stone’s throw, the entrance to the Manor just on the other side
of the Green, and church and parsonage beyond. When I tell you that the
chief village busybody, a Miss Eccles, lives next door on the one side,
and the chief village mystery on the other, you will realize that you
simply can’t refuse such a marvellous opportunity.’

‘And pray who or what is the chief village mystery?’

‘He is a gentleman of the name of Barton, a quiet, harmless old boy who
keeps cats and doesn’t invite any of the ladies to tea. He doesn’t even
have a woman to do for him, so naturally there is a general feeling that
he must have something to conceal. He does his own cooking and cleaning,
if any, and he keeps his door locked, which is a thing even Miss Wayne
hasn’t done until lately.’

In the course of her professional career Miss Silver had frequently been
obliged to embark upon a course of action to which as a private
gentlewoman she would not have committed herself. She began to consider
the desirability of making Miss Cutler’s acquaintance.




                                 THREE


Elderly ladies cannot easily be hurried. It took a little time to
contrive the kind of approach which Miss Cutler would consider to be
pleasant and natural. A mutual friend, or someone who could play that
part—a drawing-room humming with conversation, tea-cups poised and cake
and biscuits in circulation—in such a setting it was easy enough to
talk of country holidays, to mention Ledshire, and to be immediately the
recipient of Miss Cutler’s interested comments upon the shocking
fatality which had so recently taken place at Tilling Green—‘Where I
stayed, I actually stayed, Miss Silver, only just a year ago.’

‘Indeed?’

Miss Cutler nodded vigorously. She had a bony intelligent face and hair
which had shaded from red to so very pale a gold that it might almost
have been taken for grey. It still curled, and she had long ago given up
any attempt to control its exuberance.

‘Oh, yes,’ she said, ‘I was there for three months with the Miss Waynes
at Willow Cottage. That poor girl who committed suicide made me a couple
of blouses. Such a nice quiet creature—I was quite dreadfully shocked.’

Miss Silver heard all about the Miss Waynes.

‘You have never been back again?’

‘Well, no. Miss Esther died—very suddenly, poor thing. Though I’m sure
I don’t know why one should be sorry for people who die suddenly. It is
unpleasant for their families of course, but much happier for them.
Anyhow it must have been a great shock for Miss Renie. She depended on
her for everything. Really quite painful to see a grown woman so
subservient. I hear she has a widowed niece living with her now.’

‘And does she still take in guests?’

‘I really don’t know. They were not at all well off, and if the niece is
dependent ... I have sometimes thought of going down again, but I don’t
know what the house-keeping would be like now, unless the niece does it.
Miss Renie was _not_ a good cook! On the other hand, there was a very
pleasant social circle at Tilling Green. Horrid for them all having this
poison-pen business. And just as that charming girl at the Manor is
getting married! There was another young man on the tapis when I was
down there. She wasn’t engaged to him, but they all thought she was
going to be. He was the parson’s nephew, Jason Leigh. Such an odd
name—and rather an odd young man. Anyhow nothing came of it, and she is
marrying the other one next week, I believe. I made friends with a Miss
Eccles when I was down there, and she wrote and told me. We still
correspond occasionally.’ She went on talking about Tilling Green and
the people whom she had met there. ‘Colonel Repton at the Manor, married
to quite a young wife—very pretty, but not very popular. The people
bore her, and they don’t like it ... Valentine Grey has a lot of money.
Gilbert Earle, the man she is marrying, is the heir to a title ... Miss
Eccles says Colonel Repton will be put to it to go on living at the
Manor without the allowance which her trustees have been paying him
while she lives there. She is herself some kind of a distant connection
of the family, so I suppose she knows. She says they are having a
rehearsal of the wedding ceremony. I don’t know that I care about the
idea. I know it is very generally done, but it seems to me to detract
from the sacred nature of the occasion. I may be wrong, but that is how
it seems to me.’ Miss Cutler’s loud, decided voice continued with hardly
a break, but she contrived to make a very good tea.

Miss Silver was, of course, the perfect listener. She was interested,
she was agreeable. When encouragement seemed desirable she supplied it.
By the time she left she had quite a clear picture of Tilling Green and
its inhabitants, together with a number of unrelated details which she
memorized without effort and which she could rely upon herself to
reproduce at will. She went home and wrote a letter which she addressed
to Miss Wayne, Willow Cottage, Tilling Green, Ledshire. It began:

    ‘Dear Madam,

    An acquaintance of mine, Miss Cutler, has told me of the very
    pleasant holiday she spent with you some time ago. I am
    encouraged to write and ask you whether you would consider
    allowing me to come to you as a paying guest for a short time.
    The quiet surroundings of a village ...’

To this letter she presently received the reply which she expected. Miss
Wayne would be very pleased. She was sure that any friend of Miss
Cutler’s ... She had lost her dear sister of whom Miss Cutler would
doubtless have spoken, but she and her niece would do their best to make
a guest’s stay pleasant. She was writing to thank Miss Cutler for the
recommendation. As to terms, everything kept going up so. She felt
obliged to charge a little more than they had asked a year ago ...

The small spidery writing ran on to a signature which could just be
identified as Irene Wayne.




                                  FOUR


Miss Silver found herself delighted with Willow Cottage. Tilling Green
was a charming little place, far enough from Ledlington not to have been
spoiled but within sufficiently easy reach by bus. It had a
fourteenth-century church with some interesting tomb-stones and brasses,
the fine old Manor house, and two or three really charming half-timbered
cottages. Willow Cottage was of course of a later date, which she
considered preferable from the point of view of a residence. Old
cottages were doubtless picturesque, but they were sadly apt to have
uncomfortably steep stairs and low ceilings, to say nothing of
out-of-date sanitary arrangements and a shortage of hot water. Willow
Cottage had a nice little modern bathroom which, as Miss Wayne informed
her, had taken the place of an early Victorian conservatory.

‘We found it full of ferns when we bought the cottage—it is thirty
years ago now—and it made the dining-room so damp. My sister decided
immediately that it must go. She was a wonderful person, Miss Silver.
She always made up her mind about things at once. The moment she saw
that fernery she said it must go. Now I am quite different. I am afraid
I see so many _difficulties_. I said, “Oh, Esther!”—that was my
sister’s name—and she said, “Well, what are you oh’ing about?” It was
very stupid of me of course, but I couldn’t help thinking how
inconvenient it would be to go through the dining-room if one wanted to
take a bath, but she pointed out that mealtimes would quite naturally be
different from bath-times, and that if one had a tendency to be late in
the morning it would help one to overcome it. And so it actually did. I
found that I was able to get up quite half an hour earlier without it
being any trouble at all. It only needed a little perseverance.’

Without thinking its situation ideal, Miss Silver was in no frame of
mind to cavil at it. There might so easily have been no bathroom at all,
and she was delighted with her bedroom, one of the two which looked
towards the front of the house and provided that view across the Green
towards the Manor gates and the neighbouring church described by Frank
Abbott.

Miss Wayne informed her that there was to be a wedding at the Manor
within the next day or two.

‘Really Tilling Green will be quite gay—a rehearsal for the wedding on
Wednesday and a party at the Manor in the evening. It is giving them a
great deal of work—Colonel and Mrs Repton and his sister. It is she who
really does the house-keeping—young Mrs Repton doesn’t take much
interest. Joyce and I are not invited, but as I said to her, “My dear,
we really can’t expect it. Of course I have known them for thirty years,
and you and Valentine have been friendly—and we could have got Jessie
Peck in to be with David—but as we were not asked, there is no more to
be said about it. You must remember that we are not relations.” I must
say I shouldn’t myself consider Mettie Eccles or Connie Brooke to be
anything more than connections. My dear sister always thought it absurd
to use the word relation for anyone further away than a second cousin.’

Miss Silver checked this dissertation with a question.

‘And the bride? She is a young relative of Colonel Repton’s, I think you
said? You have known her for some time?’

‘Oh dear me, yes—from a child—Valentine Grey. The wedding is on
Thursday afternoon. Such a charming girl, and the bridegroom is very
good-looking. Of course one didn’t quite expect—but people very seldom
marry their first love, do they?’

Miss Silver turned an interested ear.

‘Very seldom indeed, I should think.’

‘How kind of you,’ said Miss Wayne in her small earnest voice. She
proceeded in a burst of confidence, ‘I do really mean it, because I was
just thinking that perhaps it was an unkind thing to say, and one
doesn’t like to feel one has been unkind.’

Miss Silver smiled. ‘It is, I think, a question of fact. Characters
develop and tastes change. Someone who would be congenial as a companion
at seventeen or eighteen years of age might no longer be so in five or
six years time.’

Miss Wayne continued to gaze. She was a little mousey creature with a
tendency to turn pink about the eyes and nose when moved or distressed.
She blinked and said, ‘How well you put it. I shouldn’t like to have
felt that I had been unkind. Valentine is such a charming girl, and no
one has heard anything of Jason Leigh for a very long time. I asked his
uncle about him the other day—he is our vicar’s nephew, you know—and
he said, “Oh, he never writes.” “Oh!” I said, “Oh dear, Mr Martin, that
is very sad for you, isn’t it?” but he said he didn’t think it was,
because young men liked to be off “adventuring”. Don’t you think that
was a very _curious_ word for him to use?’

Miss Silver inquired what Mr Leigh’s profession might be.

‘Oh, he _writes_,’ said Miss Wayne vaguely. ‘Rather odd sort of books, I
think. My niece tells me they are clever—but then if you are not clever
yourself you like something simpler, don’t you think? A nice love story
with a happy ending, if you know what I mean. Of course I can’t help
taking an interest in dear Valentine and hoping that she will be very
happy indeed. I think I told you they are having a rehearsal of the
ceremony on Wednesday afternoon. Would it interest you to slip into the
church and watch? I have never seen a wedding rehearsal, and there
cannot be anything private about it, can there? Of course Joyce and I
have been asked to the wedding, and if the Reptons see you with us on
Wednesday, I expect they will ask you too. After all, one more can make
very little difference—there are always some people who cannot come. I
know for a fact that Janet Grant, who is a very old friend, will not be
able to be there because the rather tiresome sister-in-law who is always
getting ill has had one of her attacks, and that means Janet having to
go all the way down into Kent. Esther used to say—my dear sister, you
know—she used to say that Jessica wouldn’t get ill nearly so often if
she hadn’t been allowed to count on Janet running down there every time
her finger ached. But of course one mustn’t be unkind about it, and no
one knows better than I do how terrible it is to be _lonely_. Jessica
didn’t marry, you see, and she doesn’t get on with Janet’s husband,
Major Grant—such a nice man, but rather a sharp temper. So it is all
rather sad. Now my dear sister and I, there was never a word between us
all the years we lived together. But then it is generally men who make
the trouble, is it not?’

It was this identical theme which was occupying Mrs Needham who had kept
house for the Reverend Thomas Martin at the Parsonage across the Green
for almost as long as he had been there himself. If he ever looked back
to the days before her coming, it was with a heartfelt shudder. A wife
in failing health, a succession of well-meaning but incompetent ‘helps’,
the shock of Christina’s death and his own conviction that the failure
of their marriage must somehow have been his fault and his alone—these
were not things upon which any man would choose to dwell. At his darkest
hour Mrs Needham had walked in, sent undoubtedly from heaven by way of a
Ledlington registry office, and she had been there ever since—large,
strong, imperturbable, a good cook, an excellent house-keeper, a
wonderful manager. She had, in fact, so many virtues that the absence of
just one might be considered to weigh lightly in the scales. She was
kind, she was clean, she was honest, she had every domestic quality, but
she had a tongue which practically never stopped. There had been moments
when Tommy Martin had felt that he couldn’t bear it. It was at these
moments that he allowed himself to look, and he never had to look for
long. In time he developed a way of life in which she learned to play
her part. When he went into the study and shut the door he was not to be
disturbed. For the rest, he could bear with her and in case of need
withdraw his attention to a point at which he really hardly knew whether
she was talking or not.

At the moment when Miss Wayne was deprecating the trouble-making
proclivities of men—in which connection she would certainly have used a
capital—Mrs Needham was enlarging upon the same topic to a visitor of
her own, Mrs Emmott, the verger’s wife, a thin lugubrious woman whom no
one had ever seen out of black. They were enjoying a nice cup of tea and
some of Mrs Needham’s featherlight scones. Mrs Emmott had just remarked
that there was no smoke without some fire, and Mrs Needham was agreeing
heartily.

‘That’s just what I said, my dear. Show me a bit of trouble, and ten to
one there’ll be a man somewhere behind it. Not that I’d believe anything
wrong about poor Doris, for I wouldn’t, but if there wasn’t a man in it
somewhere, why did she go and drown herself? Girls don’t, not except
there’s a reason for it.’

‘I can’t say there’s anyone ever saw her with a fellow,’ said Mrs Emmott
in a resigned voice.

They had been talking about Doris Pell for the best part of half an
hour. Mrs Needham was ready to go on to someone else. She said, ‘Oh,
well——’ And then, ‘There’s more goes on than meets the eye. Now only
last night—but there, perhaps I didn’t ought to say anything.’

Mrs Emmott gazed at her.

‘Then you shouldn’t have brought it up.’

‘Well, perhaps I shouldn’t. Not that it was anything really, and if I
don’t tell you, you’ll go thinking all round it and about, when it was
only Connie Brooke that rang up, wanting to see Mr Martin when he was
out.’

‘And what’s wrong about that?’

‘I didn’t say there was anything wrong, only she was crying, that’s
all.’

‘Maybe she’s got a cold.’

Mrs Needham shook her head.

‘There’s a difference between a girl that’s got a cold and a girl that’s
been crying her eyes out. “Oh, is he in?” she said, and I said, “Well,
no, he isn’t. He’s gone over to Ledlington to one of those meetings
about the Orphanage, and he said he’d stay to supper with the Reverend
Craddock. Friends at College they were and he’s ever such a nice
gentleman.” So she said, “Oh dear, oh dear!” and I could tell by her
voice she was crying again. And just then who should come in but Mr
Martin himself. It seems Mr Craddock had been called out to someone that
was taken ill, so he had come home for his supper after all. I gave him
the telephone and I told him who it was, and before I had time to go a
step I could hear her say, “Oh, Tommy darling, can I come and see you? I
don’t know what to do!” You know how all these young ones call him
Tommy.’

Mrs Emmott looked down her nose.

‘It didn’t ought to be allowed,’ she said. And then with melancholy
interest, ‘Did she come?’

Mrs Needham was pouring herself another cup of tea. She nodded. ‘Oh,
yes, she came. And I was right about the crying—her eyes were all
bulged up with it. And she didn’t go away any happier neither, for I was
coming through from the kitchen with his supper-tray when they came out
of the study. I stood back, as it were, and they didn’t see me. And he
was saying, “Well, my dear, you had better think it over. I can’t tell
you what you ought to do, because I don’t know what it is that you’ve
got on your mind. But if it is really anything to do with those horrible
letters, then I think you may have a duty.” ’

‘Well, I never! And what did she say to that?’

Mrs Needham leaned forward in the chair which she filled with amplitude.
She had a lot of strong dark hair only lightly sprinkled with grey. Her
eyes were brown and soft, and she had cheeks like rosy apples. She
dropped her voice and said, ‘She began to cry again. I stood just where
I was with the tray, and I couldn’t help but hear. Mr Martin, he said,
“Oh, my dear child, don’t! That handkerchief’s nothing but a rag. Here,
take mine.” And she sobbing and saying, “Oh, poor Doris—I don’t know
what I ought to do—but once I’ve said it I can’t take it back, can I?”
And he said, “No, you can’t, so you’d better go back and think it over.”
And with that he’d got the door open, and if you ask me, he was glad to
be rid of her. For they take advantage of him, indeed they do—coming
here at all hours and never thinking whether it’s his supper-time or
not!’

When they had finished their tea Mrs Emmott went on down to the village
shop, where she picked up a tin of Irish steak which her friend Mrs
Gurney had been keeping for her. They had a comfortable melancholy
conversation, in the course of which Mrs Emmott passed on what Mrs
Needham had been telling her, with some additions of her own.

Later that evening Mrs Gurney told Jessie Peck, who was a cousin of
hers, and Jessie Peck told her sister-in-law who worked Tuesdays and
Thursdays for Miss Eccles and Wednesdays and Fridays for Miss Wayne.
Just how many people the sister-in-law told cannot be estimated. Her
name was Hilda Price, and she was a strong persevering talker. Within
twenty-four hours most people in Tilling Green were aware that Connie
Brooke had something on her mind. She knew who had written the anonymous
letters ... She knew something about the death of Doris Pell ... She
couldn’t make up her mind whether she ought to tell what she knew ...




                                  FIVE


It did not take Miss Silver long to discover that Miss Wayne really did
very seldom stop talking. If her visit had been, as it was supposed to
be, of a private nature, this might have proved trying, but in the
circumstances it was extremely helpful. After even a short time in the
house she found herself in possession of the life histories of nearly
everyone in Tilling Green—their faults, their failings, the tragedies
which here and there had broken the even tenor of village life—wartime
losses, post-war changes—the births, the marriages, the deaths, and the
departures, were displayed rather after the manner of a jigsaw puzzle.
There was a fact here, a conjecture there, a sigh over some dereliction,
a tear for someone missed, a speculation as to what can have occasioned
some regrettable incident—Why after thirty years had the Farmers
suddenly gone away?—Why had Lily Everett broken off her engagement to
John Drew?—What was the real reason why Andrew Stone had gone to
Australia?

Miss Silver sat knitting whilst the trickle of talk went on. The flow
increased noticeably when the question of Miss Renie’s mysterious
next-door neighbour came up.

‘Such an extraordinary person. My dear sister was very loath to think
ill of anyone, but as she often said, why should you lock your doors and
shut your windows and never let anyone inside your house if you haven’t
got something to hide? The vicar says it is because he doesn’t like
women. But how often has he got in himself—that is what I should like
to know. And with the door of Gale’s Cottage round at the side—such a
very odd place to have a door, only some of those old cottages do—you
can’t help seeing who comes out and who goes in.’

Miss Silver’s interest was really very flattering.

‘Mr Barton lives there quite alone?’

‘Oh, quite—unless you are going to count the cats.’

‘He has cats?’

Miss Renie threw up her hands.

‘Seven of them! Quite insanitary—I don’t suppose the house is ever
cleaned. And such great raw-boned creatures—quite savage-looking! And
all with Bible names—really quite profane!’

A little way back from the fire, young Mrs Rodney was putting a patch on
a small pair of grey flannel shorts. ‘David does go through them now
that he is getting stronger,’ she said in her pleasant voice.

Miss Silver smiled at her kindly.

‘That must be a great comfort to you,’ she said.

Miss Renie was spreading out the cards for a game of patience, using a
board covered with green baize balanced precariously upon a three-legged
stool ornamented with poker-work. She looked puzzled.

‘Because he wears out his clothes?’ she enquired.

Joyce Rodney laughed.

‘Because he is so much stronger, and that makes him wear them out.’

‘Oh, I see——’ But she still looked puzzled. ‘Yes, I do see. And he
_is_ stronger—but there are so many things that can happen to a child,
and one can’t help feeling anxious, can one? Now there was poor Mrs
Pavey—she lost six. You can see all their names on the stone in the
churchyard, and a place left for her own, poor thing.’

The slight tightening of a muscle at the corner of Joyce Rodney’s mouth
did not escape Miss Silver. She hastened to remark that little David had
a very brown and wholesome look. When they were alone together later on
Joyce said, ‘There is really no need to worry about David now, I am
thankful to say. Aunt Renie is so kind, but she is inclined to be over
anxious and to take a gloomy view. She has never had any
responsibilities, because Aunt Esther did everything, so she gets
nervous. Only I wish she wouldn’t tell stories about people who had
dozens of children and didn’t know how to look after them properly. It’s
stupid to mind, but I can’t help it.’

Miss Silver rested her knitting in her lap.

‘Mrs Rodney——’

‘Oh, please call me Joyce—everyone does.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘In a little while perhaps, if my visit is prolonged. At this juncture I
think it would be imprudent to strike too intimate a note.’

‘Oh——’

‘It would be better if we are a little formal. What I was about to say
was that Miss Wayne has talked very freely about a number of things that
have happened in Tilling Green over a considerable period of time, yet
she has not yet mentioned the death of Doris Pell or the fact that an
inquest attributed that death to suicide.’

‘It upset her terribly.’

‘And you think she cannot bear to speak of it?’

‘She was very much upset. Unfortunately Miss Eccles came in with the
news and wouldn’t stop talking about it. I really thought Aunt Renie was
going to faint. You haven’t met Miss Eccles yet, but she is one of those
people who must know everything and then hurry on to tell somebody else.
I suppose it is leading rather a dull life and not having any private
affairs of her own. Anything in the least out of the way is something to
talk about. But Aunt Renie and I were really fond of Doris. She was
quite a clever dressmaker. She made the dress Aunt Renie is wearing, and
she copied a coat and skirt for me. We were both too much shocked by her
death to think of it as news.’

Miss Wayne returning to the room at this moment, the subject would have
been dropped if she herself had not said in a small shaky voice, ‘Oh, my
dear, were you talking about poor Doris?’ She turned to Miss Silver.
‘Such a painful subject—but you must have read about it in the papers.
We went to the funeral of course. Poor Miss Pell was terribly
overcome—she is the aunt, you know, and she had brought Doris up. The
whole village was there, and the flowers were lovely.’ She dabbed her
eyes and the tip of a reddened nose. ‘You can understand how we feel
about it. But I did not intend to sadden you with our troubles. Joyce
should not have spoken of it. We must talk about something more
cheerful. Valentine Grey’s wedding—now that would be the thing!’ She
addressed her niece. ‘I was telling Miss Silver about the rehearsal
tomorrow afternoon. I thought we could just slip in at the back and see
how it went without being in anybody’s way. Mettie Eccles rang
up—rather a waste of a telephone call, as she is our next-door
neighbour, but she is a little extravagant about things like that, and
they do mount up. But on the other hand, when you are busy it does save
time if you can have a call instead of going out of one house and into
another and perhaps getting caught up in quite a long conversation ...
Dear me, where was I?’

Joyce looked up smiling.

‘Mettie Eccles had rung you up——’

‘Oh, yes—of course—how stupid of me! Esther always said I let my
thoughts wander too much. Yes, Mettie rang up, and she said that Lexie
Merridew isn’t very well. She is one of Valentine Grey’s bridesmaids,
and it will be quite terribly disappointing if she cannot be at the
wedding. Mettie said her dress is here, because Valentine was giving the
bridesmaids their dresses. They are from Elise in Ledlington. And if
Lexie really can’t come, Valentine was wondering about having Connie
instead.’ She directed a flurry of explanation at Miss Silver. ‘That is
Connie Brooke. She and a friend keep the little kindergarten school that
David goes to. So many businessmen who work in Ledlington have bought or
built houses in this direction that there is quite an opening. Penelope
Marsh comes over from Lower Tilling, but Connie has the last house on
the Green. She used to live there with her mother, who was related to
the Reptons, and now it comes in very nicely for the school and so
convenient for David. Connie won’t look so well in the dress as Lexie
would have done—such a pretty girl! And poor Connie—but there, we must
not be unkind, must we? And she is just about the same size, so the
dress will fit.’




                                  SIX


The rehearsal was at half-past three. Walking across the Green, Miss
Silver was regaled with information about the vicar, the Reverend Thomas
Martin—‘A widower—his wife died thirty years ago, and he has never
married again. Such a pity! It must be so lonely for him.’ The
parsonage—‘Much, much too big of course. Everyone is very fond of him,
but I do not think it is suitable for the young people to call him
Tommy. It shocked my sister very much. She quite took him to task about
it—she was so strong-minded. He only laughed, but she did not consider
it a laughing matter. And he is so untidy in his dress—it is really a
great pity.’

They were not so very far back in the church after all, Miss Wayne
moving forward three times until they could have a really good view of
the chancel, already decorated with greenery and pots of lilies. The
scent was strong upon the chilly air. There were hours of daylight left,
but even in high summer it would be dark under these grey arches. For
the wedding tomorrow all the lights would be on, but now the body of the
church was in shadow.

Miss Silver was glad of her winter coat. She never went down into the
country without providing herself against the exigencies of the English
weather. She wore her second-best hat, black felt with a ruching of
violet ribbon. For the wedding itself she would assume her best
headgear, quite newly purchased and of a shape considered by her niece
Ethel Burkett to make a most becoming change. At the moment it reposed
in the bottom drawer of the bow-fronted chest in Miss Wayne’s spare
room, very carefully covered with tissue paper, together with a new pair
of grey kid gloves and a woven scarf of grey and lavender silk.

On her way up the church Miss Mettie Eccles had paused beside them. She
imparted the news that Valentine’s friend, Lexie Merridew, who was to
have been chief bridesmaid, really had failed at the last minute. ‘Some
childish complaint—so very inconvenient. Really these things should be
got over before a girl is grown up. They have had to ask Connie to take
her place. Not really suitable, but the dress will fit, and of course
she is thrilled.’ She went on her way with her usual air of being in a
hurry. Miss Silver received the impression that it would be impossible
for the rehearsal to proceed without her, and that if it had been handed
over to her to run, Lexie Merridew would have been wearing her own dress
and there would have been no question of the bridegroom not having
arrived in plenty of time. Disgraceful, really disgraceful, that he
should be late, and that they should have had to begin without him.

As it was, everything that could go wrong did seem to have gone wrong.
Miss Eccles said so in one of those pointed, piercing whispers which can
be relied upon to carry into the farthest corner. It certainly reached
Colonel Repton standing at the chancel steps. Connie Brooke, deputizing
for the bridesmaid who had so inopportunely developed German measles,
saw him look over his shoulder with one of those frowns which had always
frightened her. Whether the whisper reached Valentine Grey or not it was
really quite impossible to tell. She stood beside the cousin who was her
guardian, very tall and straight and pale, with her chin lifted and her
eyes on the old jewelled glass in the east window. It made the chancel
dark, but the colours were lovely. And it had been old already when
Giles Deverell had it taken down piece by piece and buried it to save it
from Cromwell’s men.

Valentine looked at the crimson and violet and sapphire above the altar.
The chancel was darkening already, but the colours were bright against
the autumn light outside. Her own dress was dark. A dark blue, but it
looked black down here in the shadows. She thought, ‘There are things
that you can save if you bury them deep enough,’ and heard Maggie Repton
say for perhaps the twentieth time, ‘Oh dear, oh dear, whatever can have
kept him?’ She did not have to turn her head to be aware of Aunt Maggie
sitting in the front pew of the bride’s side of the aisle, fidgeting
with her prayer-book, her gloves, the long cut-steel chain which was
looped twice about her neck and was constantly getting too tight and
having to be eased.

Mettie Eccles in the pew behind had all she could do not to put out a
restraining hand. Maggie always did lose her head when anything
happened. And what an odd pair she and Scilla Repton made. No one who
didn’t know would have taken them for sisters-in-law. But then Roger
Repton had made a perfect fool of himself by marrying a girl who was
less than half his age. Miss Eccles had had plenty to say about it at
the time, and she had plenty to say about it still.

‘It’s not as if it was just the difference in their ages. One must be
broad-minded, and I have known some really quite successful marriages
where the man was a good deal the elder. It doesn’t always answer of
course, but I would be the first to admit that it can be quite
successful. Only no one can possibly pretend that Scilla Repton is a
domestic type. Far from it. I don’t suppose she is prepared to do a
hand’s turn in the house, and like everyone else they are terribly
under-staffed—daily girls from the village. And how much of that will
they be able to afford once Valentine has gone? It’s really no use
pretending we don’t all know that it is only her money that has made it
possible for Roger to hang on at the Manor.’

And now—how much longer _would_ they be able to hang on? Every fibre of
Mettie Eccles’s slim body quivered with impatience to know the answer to
that. And not to that only. She was so constituted that ignorance upon
any point so far from being bliss, was really a minor form of torture.
She was at this moment quite devoured with curiosity as to why the
bridegroom had not turned up. They were going on with the rehearsal
without him. Why? One would have thought that they would have waited for
more than the ten minutes or so which was all that Roger Repton had
conceded. Did they know that it would be no use to wait? But in that
case there must have been some message—a wire, a telephone call. But
no, there had been no sign of any such thing. Valentine had not been out
of her sight for a moment. And nor had Roger, or Maggie, or Scilla.
There had been no message. Gilbert Earle was quite definitely and
inexplicably absent from his wedding rehearsal. He and his best man were
to have driven down from town. They had rooms booked at the George. They
were dining at the Manor. The wedding was set for half-past two next
day. And no sign of Gilbert Earle.

Scilla turned her graceful neck and said in her languid voice, ‘Bear up,
Maggie. It will be all right on the night.’

Maggie Repton pulled on the steel chain. She had a dreadful feeling that
she might be going to burst into tears at any moment, and Roger would be
quite dreadfully angry if she did. She met Scilla’s amused glance with a
frightened one and said with a catch in her breath, ‘Oh, do you think
so?’

‘My dear, of course! You don’t suppose he’s got stage fright and is
backing out, do you?’

There was amusement, even enjoyment behind the words. Mettie Eccles was
perfectly aware of it. Not at all the way to talk in church. And not the
way to dress either—she felt no doubt about that. She did not approve
of people being casual, though as it was only a rehearsal and not the
wedding itself, Maggie really needn’t have put on her purple. She knew
for certain that it was what she was going to wear at the wedding. She
was having a new hat, but definitely nothing more. The purple should
have been kept for tomorrow. Now she herself was wearing just what she
always wore at a week-day service. Not in any sense of the word a
wedding garment, but perfectly suited to one of the minor church
occasions. If Maggie was too dressed-up, Scilla, she considered, had
gone to the opposite extreme—a tweed skirt, a scarlet cardigan, a black
beret pulled on over shining golden hair, a scarf with all the colours
of the rainbow. Not suitable—not suitable at all! And Connie copying
her in that absurd way! Someone ought to speak to her about it. She
would make a point of doing so herself. Scilla’s clothes cost money. A
skirt run up at home and a badly knitted jumper were not going to turn
poor Connie Brooke into either a beauty or a fashion-plate. To the end
of the chapter she would go on being a washed-out copy of somebody else,
with her colourless hair, her pale round face, and the poking figure
which she really might have done something about if she could ever have
remembered to hold herself up.

Miss Eccles felt justifiably pleased with her own neat, upright
carriage, in fact with her whole appearance. She might be fifty-five,
but she had a complexion, and there was no more than a sprinkling of
grey to soften the waves of her hair. Her eyes were still quite
startlingly bright and blue. She really had every reason to be pleased
with herself.

No one could have felt less pleased with herself than Connie Brooke. If
things had been different, it would have been wonderful to be
Valentine’s bridesmaid. She had never dreamed of such a thing—how could
she? It was only the chance of Lexie Merridew going down with German
measles and the dress fitting her. It would have been marvellous if
only—if only——

That sick feeling came up in her throat again. It would be awful if she
were to be sick in church. She couldn’t be sick with Mrs Repton looking
on. If only she knew what to do—Tommy had been sweet, but he hadn’t
told her what to do. She had meant to tell him everything, but when it
came to the point she couldn’t do it. Suppose he didn’t believe her?
There were times when she couldn’t believe herself. She didn’t know what
to do.

Up at the chancel steps the Reverend Thomas Martin, a large untidy man
in the bulging garments familiar to everyone in the village as the more
elderly of his two known suits, was understood to say that he thought
that would do nicely—very nicely indeed. Since he used a subterranean
whisper, no one could be quite sure of the words. He beamed upon
Valentine in very much the same way as he had done at her christening,
and added more or less audibly, ‘You won’t care to be walking up to the
altar rails by yourself, so that’s about as far as we can go. He’ll be
turning up any time now, and you’ll be laughing at whatever it is that
has kept him. Anyhow it’s all quite foolproof, my dear, so you needn’t
fret yourself. I’ve married too many couples to let either of you put a
foot wrong, so never give it another thought.’

She had seldom felt less like laughing. There was a numbness in her
mind. Her thoughts were dark, and cold, and still. Only every now and
then there were flashes of light, of pain, of something that was
terribly like hope. It couldn’t be hope. Tommy was smiling like an
india-rubber gargoyle. He was a kind old pet and she loved him, but he
saw too much. She didn’t want him to be sorry for her. She smiled back
at him and said in quite a natural voice, ‘Oh, yes, it will be all
right.’

Roger Repton swung round with a gruff ‘Well, that’s done! Ridiculous
rubbish if you ask me! Modern craze! Wedding’s quite bad enough without
dragging everyone through a rehearsal first!’

The two bridesmaids moved apart, Connie awkward and abstracted, Daphne
Hollis pretty and poised.

Valentine said, ‘Thank you so much, Tommy darling,’ and turned from the
chancel. When she took that step tomorrow she would be Gilbert’s wife,
she would be Mrs Gilbert Earle. Unless——

There was one of those flashes in the darkness of her mind. It came and
went, and the numbness closed down again. The door at the end of the
church was pushed open and Gilbert Earle came in. His fair hair was
ruffled, there was a smear of mud on his cheek, and a three-cornered
tear half-way down his left sleeve. He wore a charming rueful
expression, and it was plain that he expected a general indulgence. Miss
Eccles declared afterwards that he was limping a little, but no one else
appeared to have noticed the fact. He came straight to Valentine and
said in his agreeable voice, ‘Darling, you’ll have to excuse me. John
tried to take the hedge into Plowden’s field. He’ll be coming along as
soon as they’ve patched him up a bit. I, as you can see, am only the
worse for a little mud.’




                                 SEVEN


The old rooms at the Manor lighted up well—the dining-room with its
panelled walls and its portraits, its draw-table and its high-backed
chairs; the drawing-room with its French carpet and the brocaded
curtains which might look shabby in the daytime but whose ageing beauty
preserved a lamplit splendour. Fifty years before, their tints of peach
and gold would have been repeated in the covering of chairs and couches,
but today the patched remnants were hidden under loose chintz covers too
often cleaned to do more than hint that they had once displayed pale
wreaths of flowers. There were portraits here too—a charming graceful
creature with a look of Valentine, Lady Adela Repton in the dress she
had worn at the famous Waterloo ball—her husband Ambrose, shot down by
the Duke’s side next day and painted with an empty sleeve pinned up
where the arm had been. He had a lean face and an irked, angry look.

Roger Repton resembled him strongly, even to the expression. It was
Scilla’s idea to give this party, and in the two years that they had
been married it had been borne in mind that when Scilla wanted anything
he might just as well let her have it and be done with it. But that
wasn’t to say that he was prepared to look as if he was enjoying
himself, because he wasn’t. The house was upside down, and there had
been that damned silly business of the rehearsal in the afternoon. He
wanted to sit down peaceably by the fire and read _The Times_, and if he
went to sleep it wouldn’t be anybody’s business. Instead of which, here
was this damned party. A fuss on the wedding-day he was prepared for.
Weddings were damned uncomfortable things, but he knew what was the
proper thing to do and he was prepared to go through with it. It was
this thing of having a dinner-party the night before that got him. The
bridegroom should be entertaining his bachelor friends, and the bride
should be getting her beauty-sleep. Val looked as if she needed it. She
was like a ghost in that pale green floating thing. He frowned at Lady
Mallett, and discovered her to be saying just that.

‘Valentine looks like a ghost.’

Since it was his habit to contradict her, he did it now.

‘I can’t think why you should say so!’

‘Can’t you?’ She chuckled. ‘Hating all this, aren’t you? Scilla’s idea
of course, and very nice too! What’s all this about Gilbert’s friend
having driven them both into a ditch?’

‘You’ve got it wrong! It wasn’t a ditch, it was the hedge into Plowden’s
field!’

‘Had they been celebrating?’

‘Not noticeably!’

‘Well, he must be a shocking bad driver! It was he who was driving—not
Gilbert? Because if it was Gilbert, I should advise Valentine to break
it off! You can’t go marrying a man who drives you into ditches!’

‘I told you it wasn’t a ditch!’

She gave her rolling laugh.

‘What’s the odds? Here, what’s the matter with Valentine—stage fright?
I remember I nearly ran away the day before I married Tim. I must go
over and cheer her up. Or is it you who want it more than she does? As I
said, you’re hating it all like poison, aren’t you? The fuss and the
bother—and Val going off—I don’t suppose you’re feeling too cheerful
about that, are you? You’ll miss her in more ways than one, I expect.’

Her grandmother had been a Repton and she ranked as a cousin. If she
didn’t mind what she said, it was astonishing how often other people
didn’t mind it either. Her large dark eyes held an unfailing interest in
her neighbours’ affairs. She dispensed kindness, interference, and
unwanted advice in a prodigal manner. Her massive form, clad in the
roughest of tweeds, was to be seen at every local gathering. Her
husband’s long purse was at the disposal of every good work. Tonight she
was handsomely upholstered in crimson brocade, with an extensive and
rather dirty diamond and ruby necklace reposing on a bosom well
calculated to sustain it. Large solitaire diamond earrings dazzled on
either side of her ruddy cheeks. Her white hair rose above them in an
imposing pile. Her small and quite undistinguished-looking husband had
made an enormous fortune out of a chain of grocery stores.

Roger Repton said, ‘Yes.’ It was no good getting annoyed with Nora
Mallett. She said what she wanted to say, and no one could stop her. If
she wanted to talk about his financial position, she would. She was
doing it now.

‘Eleanor did you pretty well in her will, didn’t she! Six hundred a year
until Val was eighteen, and another two hundred after that as long as
she made her home here! Poor Eleanor—what a mess she made of her life
marrying that man Grey! Anyone could see with half an eye that he was
after the money. You know, I always thought she had a bit of a soft spot
for you. Of course you were first cousins and all that, but nobody
thought anything of their marrying in Victorian times—in fact it was
quite the thing to do when the estate went in the male line and there
were only daughters.’

‘My dear Nora, Eleanor and I were not Victorians.’

‘Much better if you had been—you would almost certainly have married.’

He said abruptly, ‘Well, we didn’t, and that’s that!’

‘And more’s the pity. Such a shame for you to come in for the Manor
without the money to keep it up properly. Stupid things those old
entails. Much better really for Valentine to have come in for the place
and have done with it. With the money she had from her mother,
everything would have been easy enough.’ She became aware of his
lowering look and added, ‘Well, well, I daresay it’s all for the best if
one only knew it, so cheer up!’

‘I can’t see that there’s very much to cheer up about.’

She laughed.

‘Wait till the champagne has been round!’

She moved away and left him thinking morosely. Champagne two days
running! And the one thing he wouldn’t do was to offer cheap wine to a
guest. He wished the whole thing over and done with. But there would
still be the bills to come in.

Mettie Eccles came up in a purposeful manner. She wore the black dress
which had figured at every evening party for the last ten years, but she
had a long floating scarf of bright blue that matched her eyes, and she
seemed, as always, very much pleased with herself. Her looks went
darting here and there, taking everything in, approving, criticizing.

‘What is Gilbert Earle doing here? He ought to be having a party of his
own in town, then he wouldn’t have been run in to a hedge by—what’s the
man’s name?—John Addingley. I hear he’s got three stitches in his
lip—the Addingley man, not Gilbert—and he couldn’t have been any
beauty to start with. What is he—something in the Foreign Office like
Gilbert? They used to go in for looks and manners, but now they only
need to have brains. So dull! But Gilbert hasn’t done so badly. I
suppose he has the brains, and he certainly has the looks. Between you
and me, Roger, isn’t he just a bit too good-looking? I suppose Valentine
doesn’t think so. Or does she? If she does, she is about the only woman
he knows who would rather have him plain. Of course it makes a
difference when you are considering a man as a husband.’

He said stiffly, ‘I don’t really know what you mean.’

Her eyes were brightly blue.

‘Nonsense, my dear man! You know as well as I do! He would be the answer
to any maiden’s prayer, only it doesn’t always work out in the domestic
circle. I suppose the money is all tied up?’

‘Naturally. Really, Mettie——’

She nodded.

‘Yes, yes, I know—most improper to speak of it! But what’s the good of
being old friends if you can’t? And whilst we are being indiscreet you
might just as well tell me why Valentine looks——’

‘My dear Mettie, I haven’t the slightest intention of telling you
anything! Not that there is anything to tell. Valentine has been run off
her legs. She is tired out and no wonder.’

‘Oh, well, if that is all! Brides ought to look their best but they very
seldom do. Gilbert seems devoted enough. He’s got rather a knack of it,
hasn’t he? Too charming to too many people. But I suppose with Valentine
it’s the real thing, so all the others will be thinking how lucky she
is. And of course he will be the next Lord Brangston. Too tiresome for
the poor people having all those daughters, but very nice for Valentine.
Not that a title does you much good nowadays, but it’s decorative and
she can afford to keep it up.’

Gilbert Earle had crossed the room to where Valentine stood with John
Addingley, a tall hatchet-faced young man with a strip of plaster
crossing his upper lip. Valentine stood between them. She had used
rather a delicate lipstick, because when she tried the brighter shade it
made her look too pale. She had put a little colour on her cheeks, and
it looked all right upstairs, but when she caught a glimpse of herself
in one of the long mirrors between the windows down here she could see
that it stood out on the smooth white skin like a stain.

Gilbert said, ‘Am I allowed to take you in?’ and she smiled a little and
said, ‘Yes, I think so. We are only waiting for Scilla. It’s shocking of
her to be late, but she always is.’ Her voice was sweet and quiet. It
sounded as if she was too tired to raise it or to accent the words.
There was no feeling behind them.

In the pause that followed Maggie Repton was heard to say, ‘Oh dear——’
and Sir Timothy Mallett took out his watch and looked at it.

Then the door opened and Scilla Repton came in in a gold dress with the
least possible amount of top to it. Arms, shoulders, and breast were as
white as milk. Her hair was golden under the light. She came in without
hurry and stood a moment, smiling, before she said in her languid voice,
‘Oh, you’re all here. And I’m late again—how dreadful of me! Maggie,
who do I go in with? Is it the bridegroom, or Sir Tim—I can’t
remember.’

Gilbert met her eyes with a laughing look.

‘Oh, not with me, I’m afraid. Valentine and I are on show as a pair
tonight—aren’t we, darling?’

Valentine said gravely, ‘I suppose we are.’ There was a faint note of
surprise in her voice, as if it had only just struck her. And it was
true. They were on show like exhibits in a glass case with all the
lights turned on so that everyone might see. But after tomorrow they
would be alone. A stab of fear went through her, a sense of the
irrevocable.

Scilla was smiling, her head a little tilted back, her lashes drooped.

‘Oh, no,’ she said, ‘—have a heart! After all, you’ll be going off
together for the rest of your lives. It’s our turn tonight. Val can do
her best to soothe Roger’s lacerated feelings, and you, darling, are
coming in with me, so that is all about it.’




                                 EIGHT


The evening was over and quite a number of people were glad of it.
Connie Brooke was one of them. It ought to have been a wonderful party,
the sort of thing to remember and look back on when times were dull. And
she had had a lovely dress to wear too, one that Scilla Repton had given
her, almost new and just the pale blue she liked best. Penny Marsh
thought it made her look too pale—‘run-in-the-wash’ was what she had
really said. But everyone knew that fair girls could wear blue, and it
would have been quite all right if she hadn’t been so upset and cried so
much. Her skin showed it terribly when she cried, and her eyelids were
still hot and swollen. She had hoped no one would notice it.

But Cousin Maggie had. She had come right up to her in the drawing-room
after dinner and asked in her fidgeting sort of way whether there was
anything the matter. It was kind, but it made her want to cry again. And
of course she had recognized the dress—‘I suppose Scilla gave it to
you. But really, my dear, the colour—rather trying! Perhaps you haven’t
been sleeping.’

‘No, Cousin Maggie, I haven’t been sleeping.’

‘Oh, well, you shouldn’t let it go on. Nora Mallett was quite concerned.
She said you looked as if you hadn’t slept for a week! And I said I
would give you some of my tablets—very good ones which Dr Porteous gave
me two years ago when I was staying with my cousin Annie Pedlar. They
were wonderful! And you do feel so much better about everything when
you’ve had a good night’s sleep.’

Well, of course they both knew that she had been dreadfully upset two
years ago about Cousin Roger’s marriage. As if anything more wonderful
could have happened! There they were, two dull elderly people, and
Scilla—wonderful, beautiful Scilla—had been willing to come and live
with them. She let her thoughts dwell on how marvellous it would be to
live in the same house as Scilla and see her every day.

As she walked home across the Green with Mettie Eccles she kept on
trying to think about Scilla. How lovely she had looked in that golden
dress. She was much, much more beautiful than Valentine. Talk about
looking pale—Valentine had looked like a ghost, everyone was saying so.
Why should she be pale? She was the bride, tomorrow was her wedding day,
she had everything that a girl could possibly want. Her own unhappiness
came up in her throat and wouldn’t be swallowed down. She wondered if
Cousin Maggie’s tablets would really make her sleep. It would be
wonderful if they did. She would have to dissolve them—she had _never_
been able to swallow anything like a pill ...

Miss Mettie was saying, ‘You don’t look fit for anything, Connie. You
had better have something hot and get to bed as quickly as you can.’

‘Oh, yes. I left my cocoa all ready on the stove—I shall only have to
heat it up. And Cousin Maggie gave me her tablets, so I shall be sure to
sleep.’

Mettie Eccles said sharply, ‘I thought you couldn’t swallow a tablet. I
remember your mother saying so.’

‘I’ll dissolve them in my cocoa.’

‘Goodness—they’ll taste nasty! But of course you don’t taste things, do
you? Why can’t you just swallow them?’

Connie said weakly, ‘I don’t know—I can’t.’

She did hope Miss Mettie wasn’t going to argue with her about it. She
didn’t feel like arguing with anyone tonight. It would be easier to try
and swallow the tablets, but if she did she would be certain to choke.

Mettie Eccles went on about it all across the Green.

‘How many tablets did she give you? How many did she tell you to take?’

‘I don’t think she said. I expect it will be on the bottle.’

‘Well, I shouldn’t take more than one if I were you. It isn’t as though
you were used to things like that.’

They said good-night at Miss Eccles’s gate and Connie went on alone. It
was a great relief to be alone. She didn’t want to have to think any
more, or to talk, or to answer any more questions. She only wanted to
have her hot drink, and to lie down in her bed and go to sleep.

She always left a light burning when she was out. She didn’t like the
feeling of coming into a dark house. She unlocked the door, and there
was the light waiting for her. When she had locked it again she went
through to the kitchen. Her cocoa stood ready on the oil stove in an
enamelled saucepan. She lit one of the burners, put the pan on to heat,
and went upstairs. Now that the evening was over she was so tired that
she could hardly drag one foot after another, but she hung the pale blue
dress away in what had been her mother’s room before she went down for
the cocoa. She took Cousin Maggie’s tablets with her. She thought she
would have slept without them, but she wanted to make sure. When she had
drunk the cocoa she washed the cup and saucepan out at the sink, put out
the light downstairs, and went up to bed. It would be lovely to have a
real long sleep.




                                  NINE


All over Tilling Green there were houses where people were going to bed
or were already there and asleep. At the Manor Roger Repton gave
something between a yawn and a sigh of relief as he laid down keys and
money on his dressing-table and took off his white tie. By this time
tomorrow the whole damned fuss would be over. What was the good of
worrying? Pity you couldn’t always help it. Valentine was bound to marry
some time, and how could you tell how any marriage would turn out? Take
his own—He shied away from that. No good thinking about things that
didn’t bear thinking about—Get back to Valentine. There was no reason
why it shouldn’t turn out all right for her. Gilbert wasn’t the first
young fellow to play about a bit before he settled down. And the money
was tied up all right—no playing ducks and drakes with it. There had
been enough of that with poor Eleanor and that fellow Grey. Pretty,
fragile creature Eleanor. The going had been tough for her, and she had
just given up. He wondered how it would have been if they had married.
Everyone said it wouldn’t do, so he went off to the East, and she
married Grey. But not at once, not for quite a long time. And Grey was a
rotter. Stupid affair the whole thing. But Valentine would be all right
with Gilbert. They were going to miss her, and—they were going to miss
the money. He began to think about how badly they were going to miss the
money.

His sister Maggie thought the evening hadn’t gone so badly after all.
Mrs Glazier was a really good cook, and everything had been very nice.
Of course they would probably not be able to go on having her after
this—or would they? Roger always did talk as if they were all going to
the workhouse next week. Papa did too. They didn’t call them workhouses
now, but the principle remained the same. If you hadn’t enough money you
had to keep on thinking about it, and that was so very tiresome. It was
a pity that Valentine was getting married. Marriages didn’t always turn
out the way you thought they would. She might be very unhappy, as her
mother had been. She might have wished she had stayed as she was.
Gilbert was a very good-looking young man, and some day he would have a
title, because poor Lady Brangston had gone on having daughters, so he
would be Lord Brangston when his old cousin died. There wouldn’t be any
money, but Valentine had enough for two. Charming young men didn’t
always make the best husbands. She would have liked to get married when
she was a girl, but nobody asked her. And perhaps it was safer not to
have a husband at all than to have one who turned out badly like
Valentine’s father who had broken poor Eleanor’s heart and spent quite a
lot of her money.

She took off the amethyst necklace which had been her mother’s and put
it away. The stones were a lovely colour and it was a handsome necklace.
She could remember her mother wearing it with a dress of lilac satin cut
low upon the shoulders and trimmed with a lace bertha. Women had good
shoulders then. Mamma’s had been very smooth and white. The necklace had
looked very well. Her own neck was too thin for it. She put it away with
a sigh, lifting the three trays of an old-fashioned jewel-case and
laying it out carefully on the padded satin at the bottom. The folded
piece of paper was on the next tray. Only a little piece of it showed
under a heavy bracelet set with carbuncles. She put out her hand to the
torn edge of the paper and drew it back again, but in the end she lifted
the bracelet and unfolded the crumpled sheet. Someone had written on it,
the letters clumsily formed, the lines slanting awry.

After a time she folded it again and put it back with the bracelet to
hold it down. Then she replaced the other two trays and locked the box
and put away the key.

Valentine Grey slipped out of her pale green dress. Mettie Eccles had
said to her, ‘You shouldn’t be wearing green, you know. It’s unlucky.’
She stood with the pale floating cloud of it in her hand and thought
from what long, long, long-ago ages these superstitions came down. Green
was the colour of the Little People—the fairies. They couldn’t bear you
to wear it, especially on a Friday, because Friday was the day of the
Redemption and they had no part in it——

She hung up the dress and went to the dressing-table to take off her
pearls and lay them down. Her hand went up to the clasp and dropped
again. There was a letter fastened to the pincushion with the brooch she
had worn that afternoon, a little diamond feather, very light and
sparkling. The envelope was the sort they sell with Christmas cards. It
was very tightly stuck. The writing was large, and thick, and awkward.
She didn’t know it at all. She picked it up, tore it open, and
discovered another envelope inside, a small grey one. There was no
writing on it.

There was nothing to frighten her, but a pulse beat in her throat. There
was nothing to be afraid of, but her hand had begun to shake. Out of the
grey envelope there came a scrap of paper. Words had been pencilled on
it in a hand she knew:

‘The old place. I’ll wait till twelve. If you don’t come, I’ll be
ringing the front door bell at nine o’clock.’

There was no signature, but she did not need one. The least scrawled
word that Jason ever wrote was signature enough. Sense, memory, feeling,
shut her in with the sole thought, ‘_He’s here_.’

It was at its first impact pure release and joy. It was as if she had
grown wings and could fly to her own place of heart’s desire. And then
she was jerked back without escape, because it was all too late. He had
gone away, and she had not known whether he was dead or alive. There are
a thousand deaths for the one you love, and in every hour one of those
deaths could fall. You could not go on like that, never knowing, never
hearing. It wasn’t possible. She was marrying Gilbert Earle tomorrow.
Anger flowed in where the joy had been. Did Jason really think he could
throw her down and pick her up again just as he chose? Did he think that
his world would stand still while he left it to go adventuring? The
words came to her with the very sound of his voice. She let herself
listen for a moment. A small flame of anger came up in her. ‘He that
will not when he may——’ She had been willing enough, and he had gone
away without a word. She found that she was holding the paper so tightly
that it hurt.

And then suddenly she was tearing it into shreds and scattering them
from the window. The anger in her burned for an outlet. Since he had set
time and place for them to meet, she would go, and for once, just for
once, everything should be clear between them. Let him look at what he
had done, let him watch the smoke of the burning and see the utter
destruction. And then nothing more.

She took off the long, full petticoat which she had worn under her green
dress and put on a dark skirt and jumper. She took off her pale green
shoes with the crystal buckles and put on low-heeled shoes with a strap.
She tied a dark scarf over her head and slipped into a short, loose
coat.

When she opened her door, the passage was empty before her. She came out
upon the landing. The hall lay shadowy below. A small low-powered bulb
burned there. There is always something dreamlike about being alone in a
sleeping house. The daily maids had gone home hours ago. Mrs Glazier,
who was the gardener’s wife, had gone back to their cottage. Somewhere
on the floor from which she had come Scilla and Roger and Maggie would
be sleeping—they were all tired enough. Scilla had hardly waited to say
good-night before she went yawning to her room.

As Valentine crossed the hall, the feeling of emptiness and silence came
up about her. It was like going down into a swimming-pool and feeling
the water rise above your waist, your throat, your chin. Now it had
closed over her. She walked in it, leaving the light farther and farther
behind until she came to the drawing-room bar.

When she had turned the handle and passed within, there was no more
light. She closed the door without latching it, took out the little
torch which she had slipped into the pocket of her coat, and switched it
on. A narrow beam straggled into the darkness, showing chairs, tables,
couches—shapes half guessed at in some uncharted place. She came to the
pale curtains and slipped between the middle pair. The other two windows
had cushioned seats behind the old brocade, but this one was a door,
like the one in Scilla’s sitting-room which lay beyond. As she came out
upon the terrace she switched off the torch. She would not need it
again. Her feet had taken the way too often for that, by day, by dusk,
and in the dark. And tonight it was not really dark at all—low clouds
with the moon behind them and everything dimmed but visible.

She went to the end of the terrace and down the steps. A lawn sloped
gently, edged with trees. Presently there was a path which went away to
the left and wandered among them. There were shadows that came and went
as a light breeze moved the branches overhead. The trees thinned away.
Here the ground rose to a viewpoint where a great-great-grandfather had
set one of those formal summerhouses which the early Victorians called a
gazebo. She climbed to it by a path which was overgrown with grass. As
she came to the top, something moved in the shadowed doorway. She stood
still, her heart knocking against her side.

There were two wooden steps up into the gazebo. Jason Leigh came down
them and dropped his hands upon her shoulders. It was all so easy, so
familiar, so near the pattern of what had been that she did not feel it
strange. The months between them were gone and the gap had closed. They
were Jason and Valentine, and they were together. They stood like that
without moving until he said, ‘So you’ve come. Just as well. I meant
what I said about coming up to beat on the front door if you didn’t.
Well, now we’d better sit and talk. The steps will do.’

He let go of her and they sat, as they had done so many times before. If
the moon had been out, they would have seen the slope of the Tilling
woods, the Green like an irregular triangle with its bordering of
houses, and the trickle of the Till going down through the meadows to
join the Lede. There were no lights in any of the houses, but the
outline of the Green was visible, and the black mass of the church.
Nearer still a faint mist brooded over the lake where Doris Pell had
drowned.

Neither of them spoke for a time. Valentine had come here to be angry,
to beat herself against the thing in him that could love her and leave
her, which could go away but could not stay away. But now that they were
here together she could not do it. If he came he came, and if he went he
went. There was nothing she could do about it. Only how could she marry
Gilbert Earle when she felt as if she were already married to Jason?
What was marriage? It wasn’t just the words which Tommy would say over
her and Gilbert tomorrow. It wasn’t just the physical bond, the physical
sharing. For some people it might be that, but not for her. She felt
with a deep inner knowledge that she would never be Gilbert’s wife. And
if they had never kissed, never touched, and were never to touch or kiss
again, the bond that was between Jason and herself was something that
would never change or break.

Out of the darkness at her side he said, ‘What are you going to do?’

‘I don’t know——’

He laughed.

‘A bit eleventh-hour, isn’t it?’

He heard her take her breath.

‘Why did you go away?’

There was a movement as if his shoulder had lifted and dropped again.
The gesture came up out of the past, as dearly familiar as the tough
lean body, the dark hair, the slant of his brows, the mobile mouth, the
swift change of expression from grave to gay. He said, ‘Needs must when
the devil drives.’

‘Jason, why did you go?’

‘My darling sweet, there is only one answer to “Why?” and that is
“Because.” ’

‘Meaning you are not going to tell me?’

He nodded.

‘Got it in one.’

She said in a low shaken voice, ‘Why did you come back?’

‘About time I did, wasn’t it?’

After a little she said, ‘No.’ And then, ‘If you hadn’t come——’

‘You would have married Gilbert and everything would have been all
right?’

She took another of those long sighing breaths.

‘No. There isn’t any way out.’

In her own mind she thought, ‘I’m in a trap. I can’t marry Gilbert. I
can’t break it off. Not now. Not like this.’

The church began to strike. The twelve strokes fell upon the air with a
mellow sound. Jason said, ‘Well, darling, it is your wedding day. What
does it feel like?’

She put the flat of her palm upon the step between them and pushed
herself up. She felt as if the weight was too much for her to lift. But
she was no sooner on her feet than he pulled her down again.

‘No good running away from it, Val. You know you can’t marry him.’

Having pulled her down, he let go of her at once.

Her voice sounded lost as she said, ‘I must.’

‘You know perfectly well that you can’t! I’m not doing anything to
influence you. I haven’t touched you. I haven’t kissed you, I’m not
making any impassioned appeals. I’m just asking you what you expect to
happen if you go through with this marriage. Who do you think is going
to get anything out of it? If you’re thinking of Gilbert, I can imagine
pleasanter things than finding yourself landed with a reluctant girl who
is in love with somebody else. If you are thinking of me, I can assure
you that I shall get anything you may suppose me to have deserved. And
if you are thinking of yourself—well, I should recommend you to think
again.’

She did not feel that she had anything to think with. She put her face
down into her hands and leaned forward until they rested upon her knees.
She had no thoughts, only feelings. In retrospect the lonely ache when
he was gone. Now and here Jason so near that her least, slightest
movement would bridge the space between them. In the future beyond these
passing hours of darkness a nothingness, a blank in which she could
conceive of neither thought nor action.

Time went by. He did not move or speak, but if they had been locked in
one another’s arms, she could not have been more aware of him. In the
end she lifted her face a little and said in a weeping voice,
‘Why—did—you—go?’

He gave that half shrug again. This time it was followed by words.

‘I had something to attend to.’

She went on as if he had not spoken, or as if she had not heard.

‘You came to meet me here. You didn’t say that you were going away. You
kissed me, and you went. You didn’t write. You didn’t come——’ Her
breath failed, and the words with it.

He said, ‘It was tough for you. I always told you loving me was going to
be tough.’

She got her breath again.

‘People can’t just go away like that. And come back. And find that
nothing has changed. If you are too unhappy you just can’t go on.’

He said without impatience, ‘You knew I came, and went, and didn’t
write.’

Again she went on as if she hadn’t heard him.

‘I got a letter. Someone wrote it, but I don’t know who it was. It said
there was a girl, and that was why you went.’

‘I can’t tell you why I went. There wasn’t any girl.’

‘There were three letters altogether. They were—_nasty_—as if slugs
had crawled on them.’

‘Anonymous letters are apt to be like that. You could have had more
sense than to believe what they said.’

Her head came up.

‘I didn’t! Jason, I didn’t! But the slime got on to everything.’

He said with something that wasn’t quite a laugh, ‘Try yellow soap and a
nailbrush!’ Then, with an abrupt change of manner, ‘Val, wake up! You
can either believe in me or not believe in me. Whichever you do, you’ve
got to do it blind. Your anonymous letter writer didn’t produce any
evidence, I take it? Well, I’m not producing any either. If you believe
in me you believe in me, and that’s that. If you don’t believe in me, we
make a clean cut here and now, and I wish you joy. As I remarked a
little while ago, it is your wedding day. Or not, as the case may be.’

She cried out at that.

‘You haven’t even said you love me!’

His voice did not change.

‘If you don’t know that without being told, there aren’t enough words in
the language to get it across.’

And all at once she did know it—deeply, surely, and with certainty. He
had gone away and said nothing. He had come back, and he would say
nothing still. Perhaps the same thing would happen again. Perhaps it
would happen many times. Perhaps she wouldn’t be able to bear it—she
didn’t know. But she did know that he loved her, and because of that she
couldn’t marry Gilbert Earle. She got to her feet and stood there below
the wooden steps, looking up at him as he rose too.

‘I must go. It won’t be my wedding day, Jason.’

She went down the hill alone, as she had come. She knew what she was
going to do, but she did not in the least know how she was going to do
it. They had parted without a kiss, without a touch. What was between
them was much stronger than kisses or the touch of the flesh, and she
had so nearly betrayed it. She was like the sleep-walker who awakes
suddenly on the sheer edge of some frightful fall. Another step and her
foot would have been over the edge. The space of a few hours and she
would have been Gilbert’s wife. Everything in her shuddered, and then
sprang up exulting because she had waked in time.

She came on to the terrace and back through the door which she had left
ajar. As she passed between the folds of pale brocade and drew them
close behind her, the darkness in the room was like a solid wall. She
couldn’t see to take a single step, she couldn’t see her hand before her
face. She turned her head a little to the right and saw, cutting the
darkness, one bright streak. The door into Scilla’s sitting-room was
ajar and there was a light there.

She moved towards it without thought or plan. It drew her and she went
towards it. When she was about a yard away she stopped, because someone
was speaking, there in the lighted room. It was Gilbert Earle, and what
he said was, ‘Scilla, what is the use?’

And Scilla laughed.

It was a slow, lazy laugh. She said, ‘Darling, I wasn’t really thinking
about things being useful.’

They must have been very close together. The two voices came from the
same place. If they were not in one another’s arms, the voices would not
sound so close. He said with a kind of groan, ‘We’ve been over it all
before.’

‘And you wouldn’t face it.’ There was a light flavour of contempt in her
voice.

He sounded as if he had drawn back a little.

‘We always knew it couldn’t last.’

‘You always meant to eat your cake and have it, didn’t you, darling? In
fact, to put it bluntly, you always meant to have Valentine’s money.’

‘I’m very fond of her.’

‘But just a little fonder of the money.’

‘You’ve no right to say a thing like that! I couldn’t afford to marry a
girl who hadn’t something of her own.’

‘You couldn’t afford to marry me?’

‘My dear girl, there’s no question of my marrying you.’

She said quite softly and sweetly, ‘Roger would divorce me—if he knew.’

It had all passed too quickly for Valentine’s thought to take hold of
it. There was a shattering sense of shock. She turned round and groped
her way towards the other door. Her outstretched hands touched nothing
until she came to it. She had made no sound, and she had not stumbled.

She passed through the hall and up the stairs to her own room.




                                  TEN


After Miss Silver had brushed her hair and arranged it for the night,
plaiting and controlling it with a stronger net than the one which she
used by day, it was her invariable practice to read a chapter from the
Bible before putting out the light and composing herself to sleep.
Tonight, sitting up in her warm blue dressing-gown with the hand-made
crochet trimming which had already done good service upon two earlier
gowns, she read with edification in the Book of Proverbs and the sixth
chapter. Passing from a recommendation to avoid becoming surety for a
stranger and the advice given to the sluggard to consider the industry
of the ant, in both of which she wholeheartedly concurred, she came to
the description of the man who sowed discord, and the inclusion amongst
things hated by the Lord of—

‘A lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,

‘A heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in
running to mischief,

‘A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among
brethren.’

This seemed to her to have so direct a bearing upon the situation in
Tilling Green that it engaged her very particular attention. Whether
these were the reflections of Solomon or not, how strong a searchlight
they turned upon the darker recesses of the human mind, and what age-old
wisdom they displayed. It was some time before she closed the book and
addressed herself to her devotions.

When they were completed, she took off the dressing-gown and laid it
across her folded clothes, after which she put out the light, drew back
the curtains, and opened the farther of the two windows, reflecting as
she did so how habits had changed in this direction. Her grandmother
would never have dreamed of allowing the night air into a bedroom except
during a period of summer heat. Not much more than a hundred years ago
not only were the windows shut and the curtains drawn, but the beds were
curtained too. Her common sense approved the change, though she
considered that the young people of the present generation sometimes
went too far in the opposite direction. Tonight the air was mild, and
she pushed the casement wide. The night was not a dark one. The moon hid
behind the cloud which veiled the sky. She could see the path to the
gate, but not the road, or the grass beyond it. As she stood watching, a
car came out of the Manor gates on the far side of the Green. It was
followed after a moment by another, and another. There had been a party
there on the eve of the wedding, and the guests were going away. Miss
Mettie Eccles was one of them. She and Connie Brooke, who was to be a
bridesmaid, would be walking across the Green together. So pleasant for
both of them.

She was just about to turn away, when she heard, first footsteps, and
then the click of a gate. Not the gate of Willow Cottage, nor of Miss
Mettie’s cottage on the left. The sound came from the other side. It
was, in fact, the gate of Gale’s Cottage that had clicked, and Gale’s
Cottage was the residence of Mr Barton who had been described by Frank
Abbott as the chief mystery of Tilling Green. He had called him a quiet,
harmless old boy who kept cats and would not have a woman in the house,
even to locking his door against them and doing his own cooking and
cleaning.

Miss Silver leaned forward a little. She had not as yet set eyes on this
next-door neighbour, though she had heard quite a lot about him from
Miss Wayne. His seclusion, his cats, his nocturnal prowlings, did not
commend themselves to the village. As Miss Renie said, ‘One tries to
think kindly about everyone, but why go out at night?’

It was evident that Mr Barton was returning from one of his rambles in
the dark. She could just make out a tall figure standing by the wicket
gate. It waited there for perhaps a minute and then moved on towards the
house. The gate clicked to.

Gale’s Cottage was the oldest of the cottages along the Green. Seen in
the daylight, it was picturesque to the point of inconvenience. The roof
sloped sharply, and since there were two storeys the rooms could hardly
be more than six feet in height. The front windows were practically
obscured by a growth of old neglected creepers. The entrance was at the
side. By leaning farther out Miss Silver was able to observe Mr Barton’s
approach to this entrance. Arrived, he produced a torch, which he held
in his left hand. He focused it upon the big old-fashioned keyhole,
inserted a big old-fashioned key, and opened the door. As he did so he
turned the torch downwards and stood to one side. A large tabby cat
walked through the beam and disappeared into the darkness beyond. A
second followed it, nose to tail, and after that a third, a fourth, a
fifth, a sixth, a seventh. When the beam had lighted the last of the
seven, Mr Barton himself crossed the threshold, shutting and locking the
door behind him.

Miss Silver became aware that the night air was not as warm as it had
seemed. She retired from the window and pulled up an eiderdown which she
had previously discarded. Afterwards there was some impression of voices
in the road outside—Miss Mettie’s voice saying good-night, and a murmur
of sound that answered it.




                                 ELEVEN


The morning of Valentine’s wedding day came up clear and bright. There
was still some cloud in the west, but the rest of the sky was of the
enchanting shade of blue which makes amends for days of mist and rain.
The girl who brought up the early morning tea put the tray down upon the
table beside the bed. The curtains were all drawn back, and the room was
full of light. She said, ‘You’ve got ever such a lovely day, Miss
Valentine. I do hope it keeps up.’

Valentine said, ‘Thank you, Florrie.’

She sat up and turned to lift the cup. If there had been less light, it
would have been easier to face it. She felt as if the day that lay
before her was a steep hill which somehow she must climb, only she
didn’t know how she was going to do it. There was no firm, hard purpose
in her, no resolve. She had come up out of deep belated sleep feeling
light and relaxed. Somewhere far down there was a tremulous feeling of
joy because Jason had come back, but how they were to cross all the
things that lay between them, she had not even begun to think.

But she would have to think. Florrie went out of the room and shut the
door. She was a nice girl, and she was looking forward to the wedding.
She was going to be disappointed. A lot of people were going to be
disappointed. Maggie had got a new hat. She couldn’t marry Gilbert
because Florrie would be disappointed if she didn’t, or because of
Maggie’s hat, or the bridesmaids’ dresses, or Mettie Eccles’s new suede
gloves. Just for a moment she could hear Mettie’s voice quite
distinctly—‘I’ve had the others cleaned so often, and I’m sure they
must be ten years old, so I’m getting a new pair in your honour.’ Mettie
would certainly be very much annoyed.

She drank some of the tea, and found it warm and comforting. What was
she going to do? She would have to tell Roger Repton that she couldn’t
marry Gilbert. He would want to know why, and she couldn’t tell him. She
couldn’t go to him and say, ‘I can’t marry Gilbert, because he is
Scilla’s lover.’ It was a perfectly good reason, but she couldn’t use
it. She couldn’t use it, because it would smash up his marriage. It
wasn’t a happy marriage, but to know that Scilla was unfaithful would be
a terrible blow. He had been a fool to marry her, and it is a terrible
thing to find out that you have been made a fool of. She couldn’t hurt
Roger like that.

And she had heard what she hadn’t been meant to hear. She had stood and
listened at a chink of the door in the dark. They might have been saying
goodbye, and what they said hadn’t been meant for her to hear. She
thought that she could tell Gilbert what she had heard, but she knew she
couldn’t use it to break off their marriage, or to give Scilla away.

She finished the rest of the tea and turned to put down the cup. It was
eight o’clock, and everywhere all over the house and in other houses
people were either up or getting up and the preparations for her wedding
were going on. There was a pile of letters on her tray with the tea
things. There would be telegrams and telephone calls, and eleventh-hour
presents to add to all the others which would have to be written about
and sent back. She picked up the letters that were on the tray and began
to go through them.

Janet Grant, in her characteristic sprawling hand, two words to the line
and not more than four lines to the page.

‘Darling—so devastated—Jessica prostrate—can’t leave her—all my
love—she sends hers.’

Lexie Merridew’s mother—Lexie was devastated too.

The next envelope was the kind you get in a village shop or a very cheap
shop anywhere, the kind they sell with the lower priced Christmas cards.
Odd writing too, very large and clumsy. She had not to wonder about
it—she knew. And then she was opening it and taking out a thin crumpled
sheet with the same odd writing on it. It had no beginning, and when she
turned the page there was no ending either. It said:

    ‘You may not mind about his playing fast and loose with Doris
    Pell and driving her to take her life or about his carrying on
    with S.R. and if you don’t know what I mean you are more of a
    fool than what I took you for but you had better find out about
    his marrying Marie Dubois under a false name when he was in
    Canada or you may find yourself in the cart along of the other
    pore gurls he as led astray.’

There were no stops, and there was no signature.

Valentine dropped the letter back on to the tray and sat looking at it.

The time was half-past eight.

On the stroke of the half-hour Penelope Marsh jumped off her bicycle,
wheeled it round to the garden shed, and opened the front door of the
Croft with her latchkey. She was a tall girl with blue eyes, a brown
skin, and very white teeth. She stood in the hall and yodelled to Connie
Brooke, her partner in the little kindergarten school which was doing so
well. When there was no answer, she called again, louder and more
insistently. And then it came over her that there was something odd
about none of the windows being open. The children arrived at nine, and
they made a point of getting the rooms aired and then warmed up before
they came.

She ran upstairs, still calling, knocked vigorously on the door, and
getting no reply, went in. Connie had taken off her dress, and she must
have hung it up, because it wasn’t anywhere to be seen, but she hadn’t
got any further than that. She was lying on the bed in her slip with the
eiderdown pulled round her, and at first Penny thought that she was
asleep, but when she touched the hand that lay on the coverlet and tried
to unclasp its hold she knew that Connie was dead, because the hand was
quite stiff—quite cold——

Her mind knew that something dreadful and final had happened. It was
like a thing which you read about in a book, a thing that happened to
other people, not to anyone who was part of your own life like Connie
was. She let go of that cold, heavy hand and backed away from the bed.
It wasn’t until she had reached the door that fear and desolation rushed
in upon her. She found herself running down the stairs, out through the
open door, and along the road to bang on Miss Eccles’s front door and
clamour that Connie was dead.

Miss Eccles was extremely efficient. It would be unfair to say that she
enjoyed the situation, but she certainly enjoyed her own competence in
dealing with it. She rang up Dr Taylor, herself accompanied Penny back
to the Croft, and there set her down to telling all parents who were on
the telephone that Miss Brooke was ill and there would be no school
today.

Dr Taylor when he came had nothing to tell her that she did not already
know. Connie Brooke was dead—had been dead for hours.

‘We walked home together last night after the party at the Manor,’ she
said. ‘She was all right then, except that she hadn’t been sleeping too
well. Maggie Repton had given her some sleeping tablets.’

Dr Taylor was built on bulldog lines. He did not exactly bare his teeth,
but he wrinkled up his nose and his voice was a growl.

‘She had no business to do any such thing.’

Mettie Eccles said, ‘Well, you know what people are—they will do it. I
told her she had better not take more than one. She was going to
dissolve it in her bedtime cocoa. You’ll remember she can’t swallow
anything like a pill.’

He grunted, ‘Where’s the bottle?’

They found it on the kitchen dresser, and it was empty.

‘Know how much there was in it?’

‘No, I don’t. She just told me Maggie had given her some tablets, and I
told her not to take more than one.’

He said in a rough voice, because death always made him angry, ‘Well,
one couldn’t have killed her, nor two. I’ll get on to Miss Maggie and
find out how many there were in the bottle. You would have thought she
would have had more sense than to hand over enough to do any harm. And
where did she get them from? That’s what I’d like to know. Not from me.’

Maggie Repton took the call in her bedroom. She found the extension
there a great comfort, because she did like to go early to bed, and it
was so very trying to have to go down to the study in a dressing-gown if
anyone called up and wanted to speak to her. She was only half dressed
now. She threw her dressing-gown round her shoulders and pulled the
eiderdown across her knees before lifting the receiver. It was much too
early to ring up—nobody should ring before nine o’clock—it was almost
certain to be for Valentine.

But it was for her. Dr Taylor speaking.

‘That you, Miss Maggie?... What’s this I hear about your giving Connie
Brooke sleeping tablets?’

She began to feel flustered at once.

‘Oh dear—I didn’t think there would be any harm in it. She really
looked wretched, and she said she hadn’t been sleeping at all well.’

‘Well, you shouldn’t have done it. How many were there in the bottle?’

‘Oh dear—I’m sure I don’t know. You see, there were a few left from the
ones Dr Porteous gave me when I was staying with my old cousin, Annie
Pedlar. And then after Annie died there were some in another bottle—and
I put the two together, but I never really counted them.’

Dr Taylor’s voice came through very sharp and barking.

‘You mixed the two!’

‘Oh, but they were the same sort, or very nearly—at least I thought
they were. Oh dear, I hope there isn’t anything wrong!’

‘You haven’t got the other bottle, I suppose?’

‘Oh, no. It would have been thrown away when we sorted out poor Annie’s
things. At least—no, I remember now, the nurse wouldn’t let me mix
them. I was going to, but she said it wouldn’t be at all the thing to
do, so I didn’t.’

He said with a sudden alarming quiet, ‘Are you sure about that?’

‘Oh, I think so. You confused me—but I think the nurse said not to mix
them—oh, I don’t know——’

‘Miss Maggie, can you form any idea of how many tablets there were in
the bottle when you gave it to Connie Brooke?’

‘Oh dear, I don’t know—I really _don’t_. But you can ask Connie....
Yes, why didn’t I think of that before? Of course Connie will know. Why
don’t you ask her?’

He said, ‘Connie is dead,’ and rang off.




                                 TWELVE


Jason Leigh came down the stairs at the parsonage. He was whistling the
odd haunting tune of a German folk song. He had heard it last in a very
strange place indeed. He whistled it now, and the words went through his
mind:

           On Sunday morn when I go to the church,
           The false tongues stand and talk in the porch,
           Then one says this, and another says that,
           And so I weep, and my eyes are wet.

           Oh, thistles and thorns they prick full sore,
           But a false, false tongue hurts a heart far more,
           No fire on earth so burns and glows
           As a secret love that no man knows.

There would certainly be a considerable stabbing of tongues over
Valentine’s broken marriage. Rough on Gilbert, but any man was a fool
who married a girl who had nothing to give him. And if he didn’t know
that she had nothing to give him, he was so big a fool that he was bound
to get hurt anyway.

He opened the dining-room door and came into a light, shabby room full
of the comfortable smell of bacon and coffee. But the bacon was cooling
on the Reverend Thomas Martin’s plate, the coffee in his cup skimming
over, and both plate and cup had been pushed back. Tommy’s hair was
pushed back too. He was standing in front of the fireplace at which he
had so often scorched his trousers. This morning he could not have told
whether there was any heat in the grate or not. He had an open letter in
his hand, and he looked across it at Jason with an expression of
incredulous horror on his big good-humoured face. What he saw was what
he would have given a great deal to see at any time in the past six
months—a young man with rather dark looks and a quizzical lift of the
brows—the nephew who was as dear to him as any son could have been.

Jason shut the door behind him. He said, ‘What’s the matter, Tommy—seen
a basilisk or something?’

Tommy Martin held out the letter to him. It was written in a big awkward
hand upon cheap white paper. Here and there the ink had run, as ink runs
on blotting-paper. It began right at the top of the page without any
form of address. With a slight intensification of his quizzical
expression he read:

‘I suppose you know what you are doing marrying Mr Gilbert Earle to Miss
Valentine Grey let alone his driving poor Doris Pell to take her life
and leading another pore gurl astray as shall be nameless hadn’t you
better find out about the pore gurl he married in Canada Miss Marie
Dubois before you go helping him to commit bigamy with Miss Grey.’

Jason read it through to the end and came over to lay it down on the
mantelpiece.

‘Going to put it in the fire?’

‘I can’t. I shall have to think.’

Jason’s mouth twisted.

‘Anything in it?’

‘No, no, of course not—there can’t be. We’ve had an epidemic of these
things. That poor girl Doris Pell drowned herself because she got one.
Just filth flung at random—nothing in it at all. But this suggestion of
bigamy—that’s awkward. One can’t just ignore it.’

‘I imagine not.’

Tommy Martin had a quick frown for that.

‘Jason, you’ve known Gilbert Earle for a good long time, haven’t you?
Ever come across anything to make you suppose——’ He came to a stop.

Jason laughed.

‘That there was something in this Marie Dubois business? My dear Tommy!’

‘Well, I don’t like asking you, but I’ve got to.’

‘Oh, I wasn’t at the wedding, you know.’

‘Was there a wedding?’

‘Not to my knowledge.’

‘My dear boy, this is serious. I must ask you to take it seriously.’

‘All right then, here you are. I’ve known Gilbert for a year or two. I
know him about as well as you know most of the people you are always
running into because you go to the same houses and do the same sort of
things. What you don’t know about anyone like that would fill several
large volumes—I’ve never felt any urge to wade through them. In case
you’re interested, your bacon is getting cold.’ He went to the table,
uncovered a dish, and helped himself.

Tommy shook his head.

‘The bacon can wait.’

Jason looked shocked.

‘Not on your life it can’t! Mine is past its best. I should say yours
was a total loss.’

He was aware of an impatient movement and a more concentrated frown.

‘My dear boy, you don’t realize the position. I shall have to get in
touch with Gilbert. And there’s Roger—and Valentine—the wedding is at
half-past two——’

Jason helped himself to mustard.

‘There isn’t going to be any wedding,’ he said.

Tommy Martin stared.

‘What do you mean?’

‘There isn’t going to be a wedding. The question of Gilbert being a
bigamist doesn’t arise, because he isn’t going to get married. Valentine
isn’t going to marry him. There is no urgency about your seeing anyone.
Relax and finish your breakfast.’

Tommy Martin came across and sat down in the chair which he had pushed
back after opening the anonymous letter. He sat down, but he did not
pull it to the table. He looked hard at Jason and said, ‘What have you
been up to?’

‘What do you suppose?’

‘You’ve seen Valentine?’

‘If you can call it seeing her. There wasn’t any light to speak of.’

‘Jason——’

‘All right, I will dot the i’s and cross the t’s. When I got here last
night and found you were up at the Manor, I had a nice chatty séance
with Mrs Needham. She told me all about everything. At first I thought
of going up to the Manor and joining in the festivities, but I wasn’t
dressed up for the part, so I thought again. After which I wrote a line
to Valentine telling her I would be at the gazebo until twelve—if she
didn’t come, I would be calling bright and early in the morning. I then
walked up to the Manor, in at the front door, and up the stairs, where I
stuck the note on Val’s pincushion. I didn’t meet anyone, and nobody saw
me. Valentine came to the gazebo and we talked. She decided that she had
better not marry Gilbert. And that, Tommy, is all. The proceedings were
quite unbelievably decorous. I didn’t even kiss her.’

Tommy Martin’s face had gone blank.

‘She decided not to marry Gilbert?’

‘She did.’

‘What did you say to persuade her?’

‘Very little. I didn’t have to. You can’t pretend you thought she was
happy about it.’

The blank look broke up.

‘No—no—it’s been troubling me. But she wasn’t happy at the Manor—she
wanted to get away. Scilla and she are——’ He paused for a word, and
came out with, ‘not very congenial.’

‘I should say that’s an understatement.’

Tommy Martin went on.

‘There wasn’t any word of you. I don’t know how far the understanding
between you went. There was no engagement—or was there?’

‘No, there wasn’t any engagement.’

‘And you might never have come back.’

‘It was more than likely that I shouldn’t come back.’

‘Did Valentine know that?’

‘She didn’t know anything. As far as she was concerned, I just walked
out on her.’

‘That was cruel.’

Jason shook his head.

‘Worse the other way. Besides, it is what everyone had to think. She
might not have been able to resist the temptation to defend me. I
couldn’t afford to risk it. There were a good many chances against
pulling it off as it was. I wouldn’t have said anything, even last
night, if you hadn’t guessed.’

Tommy Martin nodded.

‘It wasn’t just guesswork. James Blacker dropped me a hint. We were up
at College together. That sort of friendship doesn’t always last, but
this one has. I ran into him the day after you went, and he told me
where they were sending you. I may say now that when I walked in last
night and you came out of the study to meet me, there was a moment when
I wasn’t quite sure——’ his voice shook, and steadied again—‘Well, I
wasn’t quite sure.’

Jason put milk into his coffee.

‘I wasn’t quite sure myself. You know, there’s the point of view of the
ghost as well as of the man who sees one. When you come to think of it,
there are things one would rather do than find oneself lingering
superfluous on the stage without a part to play. I don’t suppose the
poor wretch enjoys seeing the odd friend or relation swoon at the sight
of him.’

Tommy hadn’t swooned, but he had turned faintly green last night. The
scene sprang into Jason’s mind—the dimly lighted hall, Tommy coming in
out of the dark, and himself in silhouette against the bright rectangle
left by the open study door. There had been a moment when he had felt as
if he were really a ghost come back to haunt the place that had been his
home. The moment was between them—something shared which couldn’t be
put into words.

Neither of them would ever put it into words. Tommy Martin leaned
forward, the letter still in his hand. He said abruptly, ‘You went out
again—after that?’

‘Oh, yes.’

‘I didn’t hear you.’

Jason laughed.

‘I shouldn’t be much good at my job if I couldn’t get in or out of a
house without anyone hearing me.’

Tommy Martin was looking at the letter, his shaggy brows drawn together,
a lock of the hair that never would lie down falling over them. All at
once his head jerked up.

‘Jason, I don’t think it—but I’ve got to ask you. This isn’t your
doing?’

‘Mine? Oh, the letter? My dear Tommy!’

Tommy Martin said steadily, ‘I just want you to say it isn’t.’

Jason’s mouth twitched. He had disposed of the bacon on his plate, and
now reached for some rather hard toast and the marmalade.

‘But how completely illogical! Because, just supposing that after being
brought up by you I had gone sufficiently down into the gutter to take
up anonymous letter writing as a recreation, why should you imagine I
would stick at a lie—or at any number of lies for the matter of that?
Would you like to pass me the butter?’

Tommy Martin made a long arm for the butter, placed symmetrically by Mrs
Needham on the far side of the table. He gave it an impatient shove in
Jason’s direction and said in very nearly his ordinary voice, ‘When one
stops being illogical one becomes a machine.’

Jason piled butter on the toast, and marmalade on the butter. He was
laughing a little.

‘All right, have it your own way! I may become a poison-pen addict
yet—“_Il ne faut pas dire, fontaine, je ne boirai jamais de ton
eau_”—but I haven’t got there yet. You might have a little more
confidence in yourself as an instructor of youth!’

The big hand which still held the letter relaxed.

‘I said I didn’t think it. I had to ask you. Roger——’

‘Roger may have the same pretty thought. Well, if he does, just draw his
attention to a few cold facts. I had a nice newsy gossip with Mrs
Needham before you turned up last night. She told me all about your
poison-pen, and I gathered that a good few people had been having
letters, and that it had been going on for quite a time. Well, I only
got across the Channel yesterday, so I suppose I may be considered to
have an alibi.’

‘Yes—yes—of course.’

He had let go of the letter, picked up his knife and fork, and begun on
the now congealed bacon, when the door was thrown open without ceremony.
Mrs Needham stood there, flushed and panting.

‘Oh, sir! Oh dear me, isn’t it dreadful! Who’d have thought of a thing
like that happening! And Miss Valentine’s wedding-day and all! Oh, sir!’

Jason’s hand closed hard on the arm of his chair. Tommy Martin’s back
was to the door. He swung round to face it.

‘What has happened, Mrs Needham?’

‘Miss Connie, sir—poor Miss Connie Brooke! Oh dear me! And no time at
all since she was here and I couldn’t help seeing how she’d been taking
on!’

He got up out of his chair and towered there like a figure of judgement.

‘Connie Brooke! Has anything happened to Connie Brooke?’

Jason’s hand had relaxed. It wasn’t Valentine. Nothing else mattered.

The tears were running down over Mrs Needham’s big flushed cheeks.

‘Oh dear me! Oh, sir—oh, Mr Martin—she’s gone!’

‘Gone!’ This was his big pulpit voice that could fill the church.

She gulped and caught her breath.

‘Oh, sir—the baker just brought the news! He come by, and there was Dr
Taylor’s car, and the police from Ledlington! She’s dead, sir—it’s all
right enough! Miss Penny found her when she come—and went running for
Miss Eccles—and Miss Eccles rung up the doctor—and he rung up the
police! But none of it wasn’t any good!’

‘You’re sure about this?’

‘Oh, yes—it’s Gospel!’

The word struck ironically on Jason’s ear. Gospel—good news! Connie
Brooke suddenly dead! He had come from places where the wastage of life
was so great that only the nearest and dearest regarded it, but this was
a peaceful English village where life was secure. And he had known
Connie all her life. A plain, shy creature, not very interesting to
anyone, but part of the accustomed scene.

Tommy Martin said abruptly, ‘I must go.’ He pushed past Mrs Needham into
the hall. The front door opened and fell to behind him. Jason saw him go
striding down to the gate and across the Green in his baggy, shabby
suit. He had forgotten to take a hat.




                                THIRTEEN


Miss Silver was greeted with the news when she came down to breakfast.
She had already been aware of some unusual commotion. The Croft was
visible from her bedroom window. When first one car and then another
stopped before the gate, she supposed that parents must be delivering
their children at the school. It was a little early of course, but that
might be accounted for by other engagements—a father proceeding to his
office in Ledlington for instance. But when the car remained stationary
and there was still further evidence of activity, this supposition had
to be abandoned, and at a quarter-past nine when she came downstairs
Miss Wayne informed her in a shocked voice that Connie Brooke had been
found dead in her bed.

‘It seems quite impossible to believe that it is true—it does indeed!
You saw her at the rehearsal only yesterday afternoon. She was the
substitute bridesmaid—the rather plain girl in the home-made red
cardigan. So very unbecoming—but oh dear, I oughtn’t to say that now,
ought I? Poor Connie, I didn’t think she looked at all well. In fact,
you know, I thought she looked as if she had been crying, but of course
I never dreamed there could be anything really _wrong_. Such a
shock—and poor Penny Marsh finding her like that! She has her own key,
and she let herself in, and there was poor Connie dead on her bed! She
came running for Mettie Eccles, and they got the doctor, but it wasn’t
any use. Mettie says there wasn’t any hope right from the start—she
must have been dead for hours. Of course, my room being at the back, I
didn’t hear anything till Mettie came in just now and told me. But
perhaps you——’ She rubbed the pink tip of her nose and gazed hopefully
at Miss Silver.

It appeared that at half-past eight Miss Silver was in the bathroom and
had heard nothing. Miss Wayne went on being shocked and telling her
about what Miss Mettie had said, and what Dr Taylor had said, and that,
most shocking of all, the police had been sent for!

At the Manor Valentine was ringing up Gilbert Earle. From the call-box
at the George he heard her voice, quiet and serious.

‘Will you come up here as soon as you can?’

‘I thought I wasn’t supposed to see you until we met in church.’

‘I think you must come.’

‘Val—has anything happened?’

She said, ‘Yes.’ And then, ‘Just come straight up to my sitting-room. I
want to see you alone.’

She was telephoning from the study. When she had rung off she went
directly upstairs to wait. She had settled in her own mind exactly what
she was going to do, and she didn’t want to see anyone else until it was
done and couldn’t be undone. She had had an emotional interview with
Maggie Repton in which the news of Connie’s death had been imparted and
wept over.

‘Such a terrible thing, and of course we must all feel it. But we can’t
let it make any difference—it wouldn’t be _right_. My dear mother
always used to say that nothing ought to be allowed to interfere with a
wedding—not even the death of a near relative. Poor Connie is only a
connection, and whatever Dr Taylor may say, I cannot believe that I am
in _any_ way to blame. She looked terrible—you must have noticed it
yourself. And she said she hadn’t been sleeping, so I gave her my own
sleeping-pills with the dose quite clearly marked on the bottle. At
least I suppose it was—they generally are. And it is quite ridiculous
for Dr Taylor to expect me to remember just how many tablets there were,
because I can’t, and that is all there is about it.’

The scene had broken down in tears, after which Maggie Repton had been
persuaded to lie down for a little, Valentine emerged with a sense of
complete unreality. None of the things that seemed to be happening were
really happening. They were not the sort of things that did happen, but
as long as they seemed to be going on you had to play your part and do
the best you could. She stood looking out of the window in her
sitting-room and waited for Gilbert Earle. She heard his step in the
passage and turned to meet him. When he had shut the door he saw that
she had put her hand up, as if to keep him away. He took a step towards
her, and she said, ‘No. I told you that something had happened. We have
got to talk.’

That halted him. But the news of Connie’s death had reached the
George—it had reached him just after Valentine rang off. Of course it
was a frightful shock to her and everyone. He supposed there might be
some idea that the wedding ought to be put off until after the funeral.
He said, ‘I know—I’ve just heard. What on earth was it? Mrs Simpson at
the George said something about an overdose of a sleeping draught. They
don’t think she took it on purpose, do they? And you won’t let it make
any difference, surely? I mean, it isn’t as if she was a close friend or
a near relation.’

She had gone back a step or two. Her hands rested on the back of a tall
chair. She said, ‘I didn’t ask you to come up here to talk about
Connie.’

He stared.

‘But it’s true, isn’t it—she’s dead?’

‘Oh, yes, it’s true. We can make it an excuse if you like. You see, I
can’t marry you, Gilbert.’

‘What on earth do you mean?’

‘I mean I can’t marry you.’

The stare had become a very angry one.

‘What do you mean, you can’t marry me? You’ve left it a bit late in the
day, haven’t you?’

‘Yes, it’s late, but it isn’t too late. There are things I could use for
an excuse, but I’m not going to use them. I’ve thought about it, and I
don’t think it would be fair. I’m going to tell you the truth. I can’t
marry you, because Jason has come home.’

‘And what the devil has Jason got to do with your marrying me?’

She said quite simply, ‘I’ve always loved him. We belong. I oughtn’t
ever to have said I would marry you. But he didn’t say anything, and he
went away.’

He came a step nearer.

‘Look here, Valentine, you can’t treat me like this! Do you know what
people will say? If you don’t, I can tell you. It will be one of two
things. Either you’ve found out something about me, or I have found out
something about you. That’s the sort of mud that sticks, you know. And
it will be a damned sight worse for you than it is for me, because as
far as I’m concerned they’ll probably only credit me with a mistress,
but it’s a hundred to one they’ll say it came out that you were going to
have a baby, and that I turned you down. Pull yourself together and use
some common sense!’

She shook her head.

‘It’s no use, Gilbert. It doesn’t matter what anyone says or anyone
does, I can’t marry anyone but Jason. I ought to have known that all
along. I’ve been so unhappy that I didn’t seem to be able to think. We
can just say the wedding is put off. Everyone will think it is because
of Connie.’

Gilbert lost his temper with a crash.

‘Don’t be such a damned nitwit! What everyone will do is to try and pin
her suicide on to me. And if that doesn’t make me a laughing stock——’

The colour came suddenly, vividly to her face.

‘Gilbert!’

‘Connie Brooke—that fatuous white rabbit! I see myself!’

He gave a furious laugh.

She hadn’t meant to show him the letter, she hadn’t meant to shelter
behind it in any way. If she had loved him, she wouldn’t have believed
it. If she had loved him, she wouldn’t have shown it to him. And if he
had left Connie alone, she wouldn’t have shown it to him. But Connie
hadn’t ever given him a thought, and Connie was dead. She was going to
show it to him now.

She went over to her writing-table, took out the letter from between the
leaves of the account-book where she had laid it for safety, and came
back with it in her hand, her mind so concentrated on what she was doing
and why she was doing it that it had no knowledge of whether Gilbert had
gone on talking or not. When she held it out to him he said angrily,
‘What’s that?’ and she put it into his hand.

She said, ‘You had better read it,’ and backed away to stand by the tall
chair and rest her hands upon it.

Gilbert stared at the cheap paper, the big clumsy writing. He read:

‘You may not mind his playing fast and loose with Doris Pell and driving
her to take her life or about his carrying on with S.R. and if you don’t
know what I mean you are more of a fool than what I took you for but you
had better find out about his marrying Marie Dubois under a false name
when he was in Canada or you may find yourself in the cart along of the
other pore gurls he as led astray.’

He read to the end, looked across at her with blazing eyes, and
demanded, ‘What the devil is this?’

Valentine’s colour stood high.

‘I got it this morning. I wasn’t going to show it to you—I wouldn’t
have if you hadn’t said those things about Connie.’

‘I never looked the same side of the road as Connie! Who would?’

There was a bright flame of anger in her. She cried back at him, ‘She’s
dead! How can you talk like that about her when she’s dead!’

It was like a head-on clash between them. Where had it come from
suddenly, this hot antagonism? She thought, ‘Oh, God—I might have
married him!’ And he, ‘She won’t marry me now. There was something about
Scilla in that damned letter. Better go on talking about Connie.’

His eyes went to the paper in his hand, and like a flash Valentine knew
why. ‘You may not mind his carrying on with S.R.——’ He was talking
about Connie because he didn’t want to talk about that. He said in a
moderated tone, ‘Oh, well, I lost my temper. I didn’t mean to hurt your
feelings, and I’m sorry if I did. I hardly knew the girl, but of course
you did, and it’s been a shock and all that. I’m sorry if I said
anything I shouldn’t. As for this’—he beat on the paper with his
hand—‘it’s just pure poison-pen! I suppose you’re not going to ask me
whether I was really planning to commit bigamy?’

She said, ‘No—it doesn’t arise. I’m not asking you about Marie
Dubois—I’m not asking you about Scilla.’

‘Scilla——’

Her colour had begun to fade again, the flame in her was dying down. She
said, ‘I don’t need to ask about Scilla. I came in through the
drawing-room last night. The door into her sitting-room was ajar, and I
heard you. I suppose I shouldn’t have listened, but I did.’

He made a creditable effort.

‘I don’t know what you heard. I’ve known her for a long time. There’s
never been anything serious. If you heard anything at all you would have
gathered that whatever there had been, it was over.’

She said, ‘It doesn’t matter. No, I suppose I oughtn’t to say that,
because of course it matters to Roger. But it doesn’t matter to me—it
didn’t matter last night. You see, I knew then I couldn’t marry you. I
knew it as soon as Jason came back. I oughtn’t ever to have said I
would. We don’t belong. Jason and I do. Now will you please go?’

Gilbert Earle went.




                                FOURTEEN


It was late on the following day that Miss Silver was called to the
telephone. Since the instrument was in the dining-room and supper was in
progress, she hoped that her tact and discretion would not be put to too
great a test. Mrs Rodney had handed her the receiver without saying who
the caller was, but no sooner had a deep, pleasant voice pronounced her
name than she was aware that it was Rietta March, the Chief Constable’s
wife.

‘Dear Miss Silver, how are you? I do hope this is not an inconvenient
moment. You are not in the middle of a meal or anything?’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘We are at supper, but I feel sure that my kind hostess will not mind a
temporary interruption.’

Rietta, having been thus informed that the Tilling end of the
conversation would be public property, and having in any case been
instructed not to say anything that could not be proclaimed aloud upon
the village green, continued.

‘I should have rung up before, but Randal hasn’t had a moment. Now when
are we going to see you? You can’t be in Ledshire without at least
coming over to tea. Could you manage tomorrow?’

‘Well, I don’t know, my dear——’

Rietta went on.

‘Oh, please do come! George has grown tremendously and you haven’t even
seen little Meg. Look here, Randal says he will be over in your
direction tomorrow—some tiresome business or other—and he could pick
you up at half-past three if that will suit you. Do please say that it
will. He sends his love, and we both want to see you so much.’

Miss Silver returned to her cocoa and scrambled egg. The tip of Miss
Wayne’s small pink nose twitched in a manner which strongly suggested a
white mouse in the throes of curiosity. In her scholastic days Miss
Silver had more than once had to contend with the passionate partiality
which little boys seem to entertain for these creatures. She had never
been able to share it. She found herself wishing that Miss Wayne did not
so often remind her of them. She hastened to explain Rietta’s call.

‘The Marches are old friends. Mrs March has very kindly invited me to
tea tomorrow. Her husband was once a pupil of mine. No one would ever
think so to look at him now, but as a little boy he was considered too
delicate to go to school, so he shared his sisters’ lessons.’

Miss Wayne quivered with interest.

‘Do you mean the Chief Constable? Such a fine looking man! No one would
ever think that he had been delicate. Now let me see—I am afraid you
will have to start rather early, but if you take the three o’clock bus
and change at the Merry Harvesters ... No, we had better look it up—I
am not quite sure about the connection. I hope we have a really
up-to-date time-table. My dear sister was so methodical about these
things.’

Miss Silver explained that Mr March would call for her—he had business
in this direction.

Miss Renie dabbed her nose.

‘Oh dear—do you suppose that it would be something to do with poor
Connie? It seems so terrible that people should think it could be
anything except a dreadful, dreadful accident! I won’t say it wasn’t
foolish of Maggie Repton to let poor Connie have those sleeping tablets,
because I suppose it was. Esther was always so very particular about
things like that. Prescriptions should never be passed on, she used to
say, because of course what agrees with one person may not agree with
another. Let them go to the doctor themselves and not go borrowing, she
used to say. So Maggie Repton ought not to have done it, but I’m afraid
poor Connie must have been careless too. But I can’t see why the police
should be interested. Mettie says poor Maggie Repton is quite
prostrated. They keep asking her how many tablets there were in the
bottle, and of course she has no idea. As if one counted things like
that!’ She gave a little tittering laugh and then dabbed her nose again.
‘Oh dear—I didn’t mean—of course one ought not to make a joke of it.’

Miss Silver went on talking about the March family.

‘I have always kept up with them. The girls are very happily married.’

She discoursed upon the theme at some length—Isobel’s
children—Margaret’s services during the war—the valued friendship of
the elder Mrs March.

There was a moment after supper when she and Joyce Rodney were alone.
Plates and dishes had been cleared, and Joyce was washing up whilst Miss
Silver, always anxious to be helpful, dried for her. In the dining-room
Miss Wayne was engaged in setting out the breakfast things. The door
through to that part of the house being shut, Joyce said quick and low,
‘I am taking David to a friend of mine in Ledlington tomorrow. I don’t
want him to hear anything—about Connie. Penny means to go on with the
school, but it will have to be at Lower Tilling. Her mother has a
biggish house there, but it would be a good deal farther for David to
go—I should have to take him on my bicycle. Anyhow I thought if I could
get him away until after the inquest and the funeral——’

Miss Silver registered approval.

‘A very sensible idea. Your friend has children?’

‘Two—and such a nice Nannie. David loves going there, and I shall be
much happier about him.’

Miss Silver polished a tablespoon and laid it down on a baize-covered
tray.

‘People are sadly incautious about what they say in front of children,’
she observed.

‘They are frightful! Hilda Price was here this morning—you know, she
comes to Aunt Renie on Wednesdays and Fridays—and I’m sure as far as
getting on with her work was concerned she might just as well have
stayed at home, because all she could do was to talk about Connie. I
told her when she came that I didn’t want David to hear anything, and
she agreed with every word, and then about five minutes later there she
was, talking to Aunt Renie at the top of her voice, going over some long
story about Connie having gone up to the parsonage in tears on Tuesday
evening.’

Miss Silver finished the last tablespoon and began on the forks.

‘Indeed?’

Joyce gave an emphatic nod.

‘And there was David only a yard away drinking it all in. Aunt Renie
should have known better, even if Hilda didn’t. Of course, I hustled him
off to play in the garden at once, and I stayed around to see that he
didn’t come back.’

Miss Silver said in a thoughtful voice, ‘And pray how did Hilda Price
come to know what had happened at the parsonage?’

‘Well, she has a sister-in-law who is a cousin of Mrs Gurney who keeps
the village shop, and she had it from Mrs Emmott who is a friend of the
parson’s house-keeper, Mrs Needham.’

Miss Silver was not unaccustomed to villages. She found this a perfectly
satisfactory explanation.

‘Pray continue, Mrs Rodney.’

‘I do wish you would call me Joyce.’

‘I really do not think it would be wise. I should like to know what is
being said about Connie Brooke’s visit to the parsonage.’

Joyce put the last plate up in the rack and emptied the washing-bowl.

‘Mrs Needham told Mrs Emmott, and she told Mrs Gurney, that Connie had
been crying. She said her eyes were all red and swollen. She rang up,
you know, and Mr Martin was out. Mrs Needham said she thought Connie was
crying and she was dreadfully upset because he wasn’t there. Then whilst
she was speaking he came in, so Connie said she would come along. Mrs
Needham was very much put out because of it being his supper time. She
hates people like poison when they come and bother him at meal times, so
she probably lurked in the hall and clattered with the tray. Anyhow she
was there when Connie went away, because she heard Mr Martin say that
she had better think it well over, and if she really did know who was
writing those poisonous letters it would be her duty to go to the
police. Mrs Needham said Connie cried dreadfully and said things like
‘Oh, poor Doris!’ and she didn’t know what to do but once she had said
it she couldn’t take it back, could she? And Mr Martin said no, she
couldn’t, and got out his own handkerchief and gave it to her, which
seems to have annoyed Mrs Needham quite a lot. And he told Connie to go
home and think it over. If that was all over the village by Wednesday,
and I expect it was, because I know we had it here, the person who wrote
the letters would have heard about it too.’

Miss Silver said, ‘Yes.’

‘I thought at the rehearsal that Connie looked as if she had been crying
her eyes out. If she really knew who had written those letters—but how
could she——?’

‘Some accident may have placed her in possession of a clue. Pray finish
what you were going to say.’

Joyce looked at her in a distressed manner.

‘Well, it looks as if it was someone she knew quite well. She wouldn’t
have been so distressed if it wasn’t. And that ties in with her going to
see Tommy Martin and coming away in floods of tears without telling him
anything. You see, when Mrs Needham heard her say, “Once I’ve said it I
can’t take it back, can I?” and Tommy said no she couldn’t, and to think
it well over, well it does sound as if perhaps she just couldn’t face up
to it and Miss Maggie’s tablets might have been an answer. Do you think
it was like that?’

Miss Silver looked at her with gravity.

‘There is another possibility, Mrs Rodney. The person who wrote those
letters would have been ruined by exposure. He, or she, would have had a
very strong motive for silencing Connie Brooke.’




                                FIFTEEN


Randal March drew up at Willow Cottage at a little after half-past three
on the following afternoon, whereupon Miss Silver came out of the front
door in her black cloth coat and the new hat which she had intended to
wear for the wedding. After an unbroken succession of black felts
trimmed with ribbon and little bunches of flowers it really was, as
Ethel Burkett had declared, ‘Quite a change,’ being more of a toque, and
the material black velvet. Three pompons nestled against the crown,
grey, black, and lavender. As they drove away, Randal said with an
affectionate smile, ‘Surely that is a new hat. I like those
what-you-may-call-’ems at the side.’

Miss Silver experienced a glow of modest pleasure. She supplied the
name.

‘They are pompons.’

‘Most becoming.’

From this promising opening they proceeded to solicitous inquiries from
Miss Silver and a budget of family news on the part of Randal March.
Isobel’s second girl was demanding to go on the stage. Margaret and her
husband were going to run a chicken farm in Devonshire—‘And how anyone
can deliberately set out to get mixed up with hens is beyond me.’

Miss Silver confessed that she would not care about it herself, but
added that Margaret always knew exactly what she wanted to do, and that
once her mind was made up it was no use trying to stop her.

‘Obstinate as a mule,’ said Randal March.

It was obvious that no serious business would be discussed while they
were still upon the road. Arrived at the house, they were met by Rietta
March. The beauty which had once been rather austere was now softened by
happiness. Miss Silver recalled the lines which she had heard applied to
her when they had first been thrown together—‘A daughter of the gods,
divinely tall——’ Her favourite Lord Tennyson had completed them with
‘and most divinely fair,’ but Rietta Cray was a dark goddess, and in
those days a tragic one, since the shadow of a murder had rested upon
her and hers—a shadow which Miss Silver had been instrumental in
lifting. She looked younger now than she had then, and there was a
carnation bloom in her cheeks. She kissed Miss Silver warmly and
enquired, ‘When would you like to talk—now, or after tea?’

Randal March said, ‘Now, I think. And I want to take her into the
drawing-room. This has got to be just a social visit, and you never know
how things will get round.’

‘Very well, I’ll go up to the children. You can call when you are ready
for me to come down.’

Miss Silver watched her go away from them up the stairs, graceful and
gracious in a dress of dark red wool, one of the chrysanthemum shades.
Then Randal was taking her into a pleasant room with flowered chintzes
and big jars of dahlias, golden rod, and Michaelmas daisy. Seating
herself and looking about her with pleasure, she reflected upon the
happy atmosphere which filled the house. Although she had disciplined
herself very severely in the matter of having favourites amongst her
pupils, there was no contesting the fact that Randal March had always
had a very special place in her affections. He had been a spoilt,
delicate little boy when she arrived to superintend the schoolroom which
he shared with his two elder sisters. Previous governesses had
pronounced him unmanageable, and he was too delicate to be sent to
school. After two years of a rule which had combined authority,
interest, and beneficience the delicacy had been outgrown, and a deep
and enduring respect had been implanted in his mind. When, many years
afterwards, he encountered Miss Silver in her capacity as a private
inquiry agent, the respect was enhanced and the lively affection of the
little boy developed into the enduring friendship and affection of the
man. It was the horrible affair of the Poisoned Caterpillars which
brought them together, and he had been forward to maintain that she had
saved his life. Since those days he had become, first Superintendent at
Ledlington, and then Chief Constable of the county, and their paths had
continued to cross. He leaned back now in one of the comfortable
chintz-covered chairs and said, ‘And how are you getting along at
Tilling Green?’

Miss Silver took a moment before she said soberly, ‘I do not know that I
can answer that. I need not tell you that there is a great deal of talk
about the death of Connie Brooke. I do not know how much of it will have
reached you.’

‘Let us assume that I haven’t heard any of it. I may have done so, or I
may not, but I would like to have your angle.’

She repeated what Joyce Rodney had told her. Randal March looked
thoughtful.

‘So you think she knew something about the anonymous letters, went to
the Vicar to tell him what she knew, and came away without doing it on
the grounds that once she had said it she couldn’t take it back. What do
you make of that?’

‘That the person whom she suspected, or against whom she really had some
evidence, was someone she knew and someone who could not be lightly
accused.’

He nodded.

‘Had you met the girl at all? How did she strike you?’

‘I saw her at the rehearsal of Valentine Grey’s wedding. Miss Wayne
asked me to accompany her. That, as you may know, was on Wednesday
afternoon. In the evening the poor girl attended a party at the Manor
from which she walked home across the Green with Miss Eccles who lives
at Holly Cottage next door to Miss Wayne.’

‘Yes, I have seen her statement. She says they separated there, and that
Connie Brooke went on alone.’

‘Yes, I believe I heard them say good-night to one another.’

‘Oh, you did? That might be quite an important point, you know.’

‘I would not like to swear to it, Randal. I was dropping off to sleep.
It was just an impression.’

‘I see. Well, you saw the girl at this wedding rehearsal on Wednesday.
That would be after her visit to the Vicar?’

‘The following afternoon.’

‘How did she strike you?’

‘She had been brought in as a substitute for a Miss Merridew, who had
developed German measles. Shyness, nervousness, or excitement would not
have been surprising, but there was no evidence of any of them. The
first thing I noticed was that she had been crying. Not within the last
few hours, but at some time previous to that—probably during the night.
The eyelids were still reddened, and there was some swelling. There had
been an unskilful attempt to cover up these traces with powder. The
rehearsal was rather a fiasco, the bridegroom having been delayed by an
accident to the car in which the best man was driving him down. Those
present at the rehearsal were all more or less affected by this delay.
There was a general uneasiness, a disposition to fidget, to whisper.
Connie Brooke just stood there. I had the impression that she hardly
knew what was going on.’

‘You think she had something on her mind?’

‘Yes, I think so.’

‘And that practically everyone in the village was aware of the fact?’

‘I suppose most people would know that she had been to see Mr Martin
about the anonymous letters and had come away without telling him what
she knew.’

He leaned forward to put a log of wood on the fire. A little shower of
sparks flew up.

‘That sort of secret could be a dangerous one to keep. You know, she had
taken, or been given, a tremendously strong dose of that sleeping stuff.
I’ve had the report on the post-mortem. It wasn’t a case of an extra
tablet and a weak heart or anything like that. She had had about twice
as much as would have been necessary to kill her. Now a very large dose
like that points to suicide. You can’t swallow a whole lot of tablets
without knowing what you are doing.’

Miss Silver gave the slight cough with which she had been accustomed to
call a class to order.

‘You should, I think, be informed that Connie Brooke had a nervous
inability to swallow anything in the form of a pill or tablet. Miss
Eccles, Miss Wayne, and Mrs Rodney having all told me this, I should
think it unlikely that anyone in Tilling Green was ignorant on the
point. Anything in the form of a tablet must therefore have been crushed
and dissolved, probably in her bedtime cocoa.’

‘She was in the habit of taking cocoa when she went to bed?’

‘Certainly. She found that it helped her to sleep. It seems she told
Miss Eccles whilst they were walking home across the Green on Wednesday
night that she had left this cocoa all ready mixed in a saucepan so that
it would not take her any time to heat it up. They talked about the
tablets Miss Repton had given her, and she said she would dissolve them
and put them into the cocoa. Miss Mettie said why couldn’t she just
swallow them. She says they went on talking about it all across the
Green, and she is very insistent that she told Connie on no account to
take more than one tablet.’

‘Yes, she put that in her statement. I wonder if she is speaking the
truth.’

Miss Silver did not reply. When he realized that her silence was
deliberate he spoke again.

‘It is quite an easy thing to say. And it puts Miss Mettie Eccles in a
very favourable light. Is she the sort of person who sees to it that the
light is favourable?’

Miss Silver’s small, neat features were expressionless. She said in a
noncommittal voice, ‘I suppose, Randal, that most of us would place a
certain value upon the impression made by our conduct in an emergency.’

‘You mean we all like to stand well with each other.’

‘And with the police, Randal.’

He frowned.

‘How does Miss Eccles strike you?’

She met his look with one of bright intelligence.

‘She is a busy person. She has a hand in everything that goes on in the
village. Her connection with the Reptons gives her a certain standing.’

‘A finger in every pie, and quite a lot to say as to how the pie is
baked!’

‘She is efficient. What she does is well done. She talks a great deal.
She has decided opinions. Her house is very well kept, the garden neat
and formal.’

He laughed.

‘Well, I’ve met her, so I know what she looks like. Most women would
have started off with that, but you left it out—I wonder why.’

She gave him her peculiarly charming smile.

‘There is no mystery about it, my dear Randal. She told me that she had
met you.’

‘I see. Well, well—Now look here, either this girl melted down a large
number of tablets in her cocoa, or someone else put the drug into the
cocoa and either left it there hoping she would take it, or came in with
her and persuaded her to do so. I find considerable difficulty in
believing in either of these theories. As to the first, I don’t believe
there were anything like so many tablets in that bottle Miss Repton gave
her. I’ve seen Maggie Repton myself. I thought I should probably get
more out of her than Crisp.’

‘And did you?’

‘Yes, I think I did. She’s the well-meaning, nervous kind—afraid to
commit herself, afraid to be definite about anything. The kind who holds
up a statement for half an hour while she tries to think whether
something quite irrelevant took place at half a minute to seven or half
a minute past. I spent quite a lot of time getting her sufficiently
soothed down to say anything at all, and even then she qualified
everything until neither of us knew where we were. But I did emerge with
an impression—in fact you can say almost with a conviction—that there
weren’t very many tablets in that bottle.’

‘Indeed, Randal?’

He nodded. ‘It sounds a bit vague, but then so is Maggie Repton.’

Miss Silver was looking at him.

‘Would it be possible that she desired to give you that impression?’

‘My dear Miss Silver, you simply can’t have Maggie Repton as a suspect.’

‘You say that with a good deal of confidence.’

He laughed.

‘Come now, what motive could she possibly have?’

She replied soberly. ‘The person who wrote the letters would have a
motive. If, in fact, Connie Brooke was deliberately removed, there could
be only one possible motive for removing her, the fact that she knew, or
guessed, the identity of the person who wrote the anonymous letters.
That person, and that person alone, would have the necessary motive.’

‘You are right about that of course. But Maggie Repton is an
impossibility. She is the mildest, vaguest, and most blameless of
women—the kind of stay-at-home daughter and sister who is rapidly
becoming extinct. She nursed her parents, she kept house for her brother
until he married—in fact I believe she still does so. The domestic arts
are not much in Scilla Repton’s line.’

Miss Silver gave her slight deliberate cough.

‘But do you not see that it is amongst just such people that the
anonymous letter-writer is to be found? Too little occupied with their
own affairs, having in fact no affairs with which to occupy themselves,
too timid and ineffectual to express their own opinions—do you not see
that it is to just such a person that the writing of an anonymous letter
might appeal? It affords an opportunity for the release of concealed
resentments, suppressed desires, the envy, the grudge which has been
secretly cherished. There may, or may not, have been some specific sense
of injury, but I believe that in most cases it is a feeling of
inferiority or frustration which provides the background of these
painful cases. As in so many other circumstances, it is only the first
step which is hard to take. Once that has been taken, the vice grows
rapidly. In a village the effect of each letter can be observed. A sense
of power and importance comes to the writer, the letters become more
numerous and more poisonous, the appetite grows with what it feeds upon.
And then there comes the threat of discovery. A timid person does not
suddenly become brave, but he or she may become desperate. Timidity may
itself be the incentive to a crime. If Connie Brooke was in a position
to ruin such a person, would not that provide a motive for her murder?’

The word had been skirted round, now it had been said. Miss Silver was
reminded of poor Connie’s words, ‘Once I’ve told it, I can’t take it
back.’ They had been discussing the possibility of murder, but it had
not been named until now.

Randal March threw out a hand.

‘Of course everything you say is perfectly true—if you knew Miss
Maggie——’

She said mildly, ‘I do not wish you to think that I am accusing her. I
am only anxious that in this matter there should be no one so privileged
by place, position, or character, as to be withdrawn from the most
careful scrutiny. In the case of Miss Repton, she has the background
which I have suggested as a probable one, and she is known to have
pressed a bottle of sleeping tablets on Connie Brooke. We do not know
how many there were in the bottle, nor do we know whether anything was
said as to the number it would be prudent to take. If it could be proved
that there were only a few tablets, Miss Repton would be exonerated,
since it would not have been possible for her to have left the Manor at
any time during the evening. There is, in fact, plenty of evidence to
show that she did not do so. It would not, therefore, have been possible
for her to have tampered with the cocoa which Connie had left in
readiness for her return.’

He said, ‘Quite. And that brings us to the second of my two theories. As
I have said, I don’t believe there were so many in that bottle. If there
were, the girl could have committed suicide, but if there were not, then
someone murdered her by putting a fatal dose of that stuff into her
cocoa. Only just consider how appalling it must have tasted. How could
the murderer have counted on her swallowing it? The natural reaction
would have been to pour the cocoa away and make fresh.’

Miss Silver recalled a piece of gossip not really heeded at the time.

‘Connie Brooke had an illness in her teens which practically destroyed
her sense of taste and smell. I have known of such a case before. She
would not, therefore, notice the taste of the drug, and this fact would
be known to the person who murdered her. Even if she had been aware of
an unpleasant taste, you must remember that she had intended to use what
Miss Maggie had given her.’

He made an impatient movement.

‘I’ve no doubt it would be known to everyone within a five-mile radius.
No one can complain that there is a lack of possibilities. Anyone in the
county could have done it, provided he could have got into the house.
What have you to say about that?’

‘People are extremely careless about their keys. If anyone was planning
to get into the house whilst Connie was out, a key might have been
abstracted or a window unlatched.’

‘A _window_?’

‘I thought of that at once, Randal. If this girl was murdered, it was by
someone whom she knew, someone who could have a quite natural reason for
coming to the house. You must remember that it was being used as a
school. The older children would be there till four o’clock. In the
bustle of their departure it would not be difficult to lock the back
door and go away with the key or leave it hidden under a mat. It would
be even simpler to contrive that a window should be left unlatched. Or,
simplest of all, the person who desired to effect an entrance might have
possessed a key which would open one of the doors of the Croft.’

‘Do you know of anyone who had the opportunities you speak of?’

‘Mrs Rodney and I walked along to the Croft to fetch her little boy at
four o’clock on Wednesday——’

‘Are we to suspect Joyce Rodney?’

‘I think not, though she certainly entered the house, as did also Miss
Eccles, who had undertaken to fetch a little girl whose parents live
just outside Tilling Green. They are young people of the name of Black,
and they had invited Miss Eccles to tea.’

He frowned.

‘And Miss Eccles walked home with Connie Brooke after the party.’

‘She walked with her as far as Holly Cottage, which is next door to Miss
Wayne’s.’

‘And you think, but you are not sure, that they said good night there.
Even if they did, there wasn’t anything to prevent Miss Eccles changing
her mind, was there? There wasn’t anything to prevent her saying, “Well,
I’ll walk the rest of the way with you.” She could have done just that,
and then have gone in with her and found an opportunity of slipping
those extra tablets into the cocoa. She would have had to have them all
ready ground up, but of course the whole thing must have been very
carefully planned. Here’s another possibility. I wonder whether Miss
Eccles went to the party with Connie as well as returning from it. If
she picked her up at the Croft, there might have been an opportunity for
tampering with the cocoa then.’

‘I think not, Randal. They did go together, but it was Connie who came
to Holly Cottage to pick Miss Eccles up. I was in my room and saw them
start. There is, of course, one very strong reason for exonerating Miss
Eccles. It must have occurred to you that if it were she who was under
suspicion, Connie would not have willingly undertaken to cross the Green
with her both on her way to the party at the Manor and on the way back.’

‘She might not have been able to help it.’

‘That is true. It could all have been arranged before her suspicions
came to a head. Once the arrangement had been made it would have been
very difficult to alter it. And she would not know that part of her
interview with Mr Martin had been overheard and repeated all round the
village.’

‘In fact Miss Eccles remains a suspect.’

Miss Silver became slightly aloof.

‘I have not said that I suspect her. I go no further than to say that
she had the opportunity.’

He nodded.

‘As you say.’ After a slight pause he continued. ‘There is something
that I think you ought to know. The post office has been on the look-out
for these poison-pen letters. Well, there were three of them posted in
Ledlington on Wednesday. They were collected from a box in the High
Street, and they were delivered in Tilling Green next morning. As you
know, the envelopes are cheap white stuff, and the writing awkward.’

‘Are you going to tell me to whom they were addressed?’

‘Yes, I think so. Colonel Repton had one, the Vicar another, and a third
was for Miss Valentine Grey.’

‘Well, Randal?’

‘I understand that the wedding has been put off.’ She inclined her head.
He said, ‘On account of Connie Brooke’s death? Or because of something
in those letters? Or because Jason Leigh had come home?’

Miss Silver gazed at him. After what seemed like a deliberate silence
she said, ‘Mr Gilbert Earle has returned to London.’

‘Yes—we knew that. It may, or may not, be significant.’

‘It has been remarked that he has neither written nor telephoned. The
postman is naturally acquainted with his writing and the two girls who
work in the telephone exchange are familiar with his voice.’

‘There are, in fact, no secrets in a village.’

‘Very few, Randal.’

‘Then perhaps you can tell me who went into Ledlington on Wednesday
morning.’

Miss Silver considered.

‘I went in myself on the ten o’clock bus. The wedding was next day, the
rehearsal that afternoon, and Miss Wayne had decided to purchase a light
pair of gloves. I accompanied her and—now let me see—Miss Eccles was
also going in, and I think for the same purpose. We met in Ashley’s
where she was buying a blue evening scarf. Such a good shop. I always
enjoy going there. We had quite a pleasant time. Miss Wayne met a number
of friends.’ She appeared to hesitate for a moment. ‘She also pointed
out to me someone who was not a friend.’

‘Are you being mysterious?’

She did not respond to his half-laughing intonation, but said gravely,
‘No, I am only trying to be accurate. The person pointed out to me was
Mr Barton, the occupant of Gale’s Cottage. He is Wayne’s neighbour on
the side nearer the village, and he attracts a good deal of local
attention because he does his own housework and cooking and keeps his
house locked up. He also keeps seven cats who accompany him on his
nocturnal rambles. I believe he very seldom goes out in the day.’

‘And he was in Ledlington on Wednesday morning? I presume without the
cats.’

‘Yes. Miss Wayne remarked on it as a most unusual occurrence.’

‘And how did he strike you?’

‘He is tall and thin, and his clothes are old and shabby. He has a
listening look. I wondered if he was perhaps a little deaf.’

‘I believe not.’

She said, ‘It is a look which elderly people sometimes have.’

‘You had not seen him before?’

‘Not by daylight. But perhaps I had better tell you that I did see him
on Wednesday night.’

‘At what time?’

‘It was just half-past ten. I had put out my light and was opening the
window, when I heard, first footsteps, and then the click of a gate. I
leaned out a little and saw that it was the gate of Gale’s Cottage. Mr
Barton was standing by it. After a little he shut the gate again and
went up to the door of the house, which is at the side. He switched on a
torch and opened the door, allowing the beam to fall upon the threshold.
Seven large cats entered the house, after which he went in himself and
locked the door behind him.’

‘I don’t wonder the village talks. It sounds like the Arabian Nights.
Did you notice from which direction he came?’

‘From the direction of the Croft. Two or three cars had just come out of
the Manor gate, and most of my attention was taken up with that side of
the Green, but I heard the footsteps and the click of the gate.’

He frowned.

‘Are you aware that quite a number of people at Tilling Green are firmly
persuaded that Mr Barton is the author of those anonymous letters?’

She said in her most restrained manner, ‘They would naturally suspect a
stranger and one whose way of life does not conform to the village
pattern.’

‘Has no one suggested him to you as a suspect?’

‘My dear Randal, no one except Mrs Rodney has mentioned the anonymous
letters to me at all.’

‘Well, I suppose that is natural. You are a stranger too, and this is a
village affair. But they do suspect Barton, and if you saw him coming
home at half-past ten, he could have been along at the Croft taking
steps to silence Connie Brooke, though one would hardly suspect a
would-be murderer to pursue his nefarious purpose attended by a retinue
of cats.’

Miss Silver said, ‘Since it was his habit to go out with them at night,
to leave them at home would attract more attention than to take them
with him—always supposing that he was about some unlawful business.’

He laughed.

‘Of which there is no proof! Let us return to your expedition with Miss
Wayne to Ledlington on Wednesday morning. Were you together the whole
time?’

‘Oh, no. I found that Ashley’s had some extremely pretty wool. I bought
enough to make a jumper and cardigan for my niece Ethel Burkett for
Christmas—a really charming shade of red. And then I had the great
pleasure of meeting dear Mrs Jerningham.’

Old memories rose between them. There had been a time when Lisle
Jerningham had stood on the very edge of death and these two had watched
her. Randal March said, ‘She’s a lovely creature and Rafe is a good
chap. They are very happy now. But to get back to these Tilling people.
As far as I can make out from the bus drivers there were quite a lot of
them in Ledlington on Wednesday morning. Odd thing human nature. With
all the other days of the week to choose from, they make a beeline for
Wednesday because it is early closing, so the shops and the buses are
packed. The herd instinct, I suppose. A string of Tilling people as long
as your arm were in Ledlington that morning. The Reverend Thomas Martin
was there. Roger Repton was there, and his decorative wife, and his
sister Maggie. Valentine Grey was there, and a girl who was going to be
one of her bridesmaids, Daphne Hollis. And Miss Mettie Eccles and at
least a dozen others. I don’t hail from Tilling myself, but I was in
Ledlington on Wednesday morning and so was Rietta, and I saw quite a
number of Tilling faces. And every single one of those people could have
posted those three letters.’

Miss Silver was silent for a moment, then she said, ‘What do the people
who received the letters say?’

‘Tommy Martin says yes, he got a letter. No, he couldn’t tell me what
was in it. Not exactly secrets of the confessional, but getting on that
way. It wouldn’t be any help if he told me, and anyhow he wasn’t going
to. Valentine Grey flushed up and turned pale. Then she said she had had
a nasty letter and she had put it in the fire, and she didn’t want to
talk about it. Things like it being her duty to help the police just
rolled off. I don’t know whether you——’

She shook her head.

‘I have not even met her. There would have to be some natural
opportunity.’

‘Something might be contrived. So far it’s no more than one might have
expected—a parson in his office, a girl and her secrets. But when you
come to the third letter, there’s something odd. The postman says he’s
delivered it, but Roger Repton says it never reached him.’




                                SIXTEEN


After a pleasant interlude during which tea was partaken of and the
March children were cordially admired Miss Silver returned to Willow
Cottage. So far from being reticent about her visit, she expatiated upon
it at considerable length.

‘Such a charming house. Such charming people. Mrs March in such
delightful looks.’ She even quoted Lord Tennyson.

Miss Wayne was all interest.

‘I haven’t met her myself, but surely, wasn’t there some story?’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘There could be no possible story about Mrs March which did not redound
to her credit.’

Miss Renie became extremely confused.

‘Oh no—of course not—I didn’t mean—I had no idea of suggesting—that
is the worst of living in a village, people do talk so. And as an old
friend of my mother’s used to say, there don’t seem to be enough kind
words to go round. I really shouldn’t have alluded to what I am sure was
just ill-natured gossip. My dear sister used always to say, “Whatever
you do, don’t repeat things, Renie,” but somehow they just seem to slip
out. And it’s really only because one does take an interest in one’s
neighbours. For instance, if my dear Esther were here now, even she
would find it very difficult not to talk about poor Connie. Nothing
_unkind_ of course, but one can’t help wondering, can one?’

Miss Silver was winding the red wool which she had bought at Ashley’s.
It always kept so much better in balls, and Miss Renie having offered to
hold the skeins for her, the two ladies were brought into very close
proximity. Nothing could have exceeded the sympathetic warmth of Miss
Silver’s attention as she said, ‘Oh, no. One cannot withdraw from the
life of the community. Injury to one member of it cannot fail to be the
concern of all. As St Paul puts it, “Whether one member suffer, all the
members suffer with it.” ’

Miss Wayne dropped one end of the skein she was holding in order to
apply a somewhat crumpled handkerchief to her nose.

‘How well you put it. Oh dear, I’m afraid I have tangled the skein! How
stupid of me!’

Miss Silver adjusted the wool with the dexterity of long practice.

‘Now if you will just keep it quite taut. I do not really think that you
should reproach yourself for being concerned about Connie Brooke. It is
a very sad accident, and must be felt by all her friends.’

Miss Renie sniffed.

‘I did think she looked as if she had been crying at the rehearsal, but
one couldn’t have _dreamed_——’

Miss Silver said ‘Yes?’ in a manner that made a question of it. The
skein dropped again, Miss Renie burst into tears.

‘I keep thinking of how she looked. We could all see that she had been
crying. They say she must have had something on her mind. If only
someone had gone home with her and found out what it was. But no one
did, and now it is too late.’

She had withdrawn both hands from the wool and was pressing the
handkerchief to her face in a feeble and ineffectual manner.

‘It is all these terrible letters.’ She peered round the corner of the
handkerchief. ‘But perhaps you haven’t heard about them—or have you?’

Miss Silver replied with composure.

‘An anonymous letter was mentioned in an account of the inquest upon
Doris Pell. These things can cause great distress.’

Miss Wayne gave a small stifled sob.

‘They are terrible! I wondered whether you knew, but I did not like to
say anything—only sometimes one feels as if it would be a relief. Joyce
is always so afraid of David overhearing something. Which is all
nonsense, because how can a child of five know anything about anonymous
letters? Why, he wouldn’t even know what the word meant.’

Miss Silver said gravely, ‘It is surprising what quite young children
will pick up, and remember.’

Miss Wayne emerged from the handkerchief with a slight toss of the head.

‘Joyce has not been very sympathetic. I used to discuss _everything_
with my dear sister. She would have been quite horrified about these
letters. You know, some years ago they had the same sort of trouble at
Little Poynton which is only about ten miles from here. Two people
committed suicide, and Scotland Yard was called in. That stopped it, but
they never really found out who wrote the letters. Some people thought
it was the postmistress, but my sister and I could never believe it. She
was such a regular church-goer, and always so obliging if you went into
the shop. They had a very good grocery counter as well as the post
office. An old aunt of ours lived almost next door, so Ethel and I were
in the way of hearing a good deal about the trouble, and Aunt Martin
always said she couldn’t believe anything against such an obliging woman
as Mrs Salt. It is her sister Mrs Gurney who has the post office
here—and I suppose no one would suspect _her_ of having anything to do
with the letters people have been getting in Tilling Green.’

Miss Silver’s hands were busy with the red skein. She said, ‘Would there
be any grounds for such a suspicion?’

Miss Wayne became very much flustered.

‘Oh, no—oh dear, no—of course not! Oh dear, what did I say to make you
think of such a thing? Of course Mrs Gurney can’t help knowing a lot
about what goes on in the village, because everyone goes in and out, and
when they meet their friends they talk to them. My dear sister used to
say what a lot of time was wasted in this way. “If you are going to
shop,” she said, “then do your shopping and come away. Lingering and
gossiping go together, and a great deal of mischief is done by it.” Of
course it isn’t always easy to get away, but I do my best—I suppose no
one listens to what is being said less than I do. Why until Hilda Price
absolutely insisted on pouring it all out to me I had no idea that poor
Connie Brooke was supposed to know who had been writing these dreadful
letters. Everyone else in the village seems to have known, but I really
hadn’t the slightest idea.’

Miss Silver said in a concerned voice, ‘What made them think that Connie
knew about the letters?’

The story of the telephone call to the parsonage and Connie’s subsequent
visit was reluctantly disclosed, if at first with such remarks as, ‘I
don’t like repeating things,’ and ‘One can really hardly believe it.’
Miss Renie’s version did not differ substantially from that communicated
by Joyce Rodney. Connie had been crying when she rang up the parsonage,
and she wept as she went away. She knew something about the letters and
she had come to tell Mr Martin what she knew, but had gone away without
doing so. Her words as reported by Mrs Needham were, ‘Once I’ve said it,
I can’t take it back.’ To which Mr Martin replied, ‘No, you couldn’t
take it back, so you had better think it over well. But if you know who
has been writing these anonymous letters, you may have a duty.’

‘And now,’ said Renie Wayne with a sob, ‘whatever it was she knew, it is
too late to find out, because she’s dead! And it all goes to show that
if there is anything that ought to be done, it’s better to do it at
once. Esther always did say that. She said there was a proverb about it
in Latin, but I’m afraid I don’t remember what it was.’

Miss Silver’s Latin extending to some of the commoner proverbs, she was
able to supply the words in question—‘_Bis dat qui cito dat_—he gives
twice who gives quickly.’




                               SEVENTEEN


The inquest on Connie Brooke took place at eleven o’clock on Saturday
morning. Only formal evidence was taken, after which the police applied
for an adjournment. Miss Wayne having announced her intention of
attending, Miss Silver offered to accompany her, and was profoundly
thanked.

‘Oh, if you would! I should find it such a support! These things are so
painful, and until last year I went nowhere without my dear sister.’

In other circumstances Miss Silver might have pointed out that the
painful experience could very easily be avoided by the simple expedient
of staying at home. As, however, her professional interest was engaged,
she made no attempt to dissuade Miss Renie, who duly appeared in the
full mourning outfit which she had worn at Miss Esther’s funeral. She
provided herself with an extra handkerchief, confiding to Miss Silver
that an inquest always made her cry—‘And it seems no time at all since
I was at poor Doris Pell’s.’

The inquest was at the George, its largest room having been placed at
the coroner’s disposal. It was packed. After the medical evidence had
testified to the very large number of tablets which the dead girl must
have swallowed, Miss Maggie Repton was called to the chair which had
been set at the far side of the coroner’s table. She took the oath in a
series of gasps and sat pulling at the corners of her handkerchief. It
is to be assumed that the coroner himself was able to hear her replies
to the questions which he put, but it was only when he repeated them
that they reached anyone else. Asked if she had given Connie Brooke a
bottle of sleeping tablets, she was understood to indicate that she had.

‘What made you do that, Miss Repton?’

Her murmured reply appeared as, ‘She hadn’t been sleeping.’

‘Did you tell her how many tablets to take?’

There was a slight movement of the head, followed by another murmur.

‘Oh, you think the dose was on the bottle. Are you not sure about that?’

Here the Police Inspector intervened to state that the dose was on the
label, but the lettering was rubbed and faint. The bottle was produced
and scrutinized. The coroner said, ‘Yes. It is not at all clear. Now,
Miss Repton, how many tablets did this bottle contain?’

It emerged that Miss Maggie had no idea. After a series of such
questions as ‘If you can’t say exactly, can you make a guess? Was it
half full—a quarter full—very nearly empty?’ it had still been
impossible to draw her into expressing any opinion. She gasped, she
whispered, she pressed the by now extremely crumpled handkerchief to her
eyes, but no faintest gleam of light was cast upon the number of tablets
in the bottle which she had given to Connie Brooke.

Miss Eccles succeeded her, taking the oath clearly and giving her
evidence with businesslike precision. She had walked across the Green
with Connie Brooke as far as Holly Cottage and said good-night to her
there. They had talked about the sleeping tablets, and she had cautioned
Connie strongly against taking more than one. Pressed upon this point,
she repeated it with emphasis.

‘She wasn’t accustomed to anything of the sort, and I told her she ought
not to take more than one.’

‘Did she make any comment?’

‘No, she didn’t. We got off on to her not being able to swallow anything
like a pill. She said she would crush the tablet up and put it in the
cocoa which she had left ready on the stove. I told her it would taste
horrible—and then I remembered and said, “Oh, but you don’t taste
things, do you?” ’

‘Yes, that was in Dr Taylor’s evidence—she had lost her sense of taste
after an illness. Now, Miss Eccles, when you were referring to the dose
she was going to dissolve you used the words “_a tablet_”. Is that what
Miss Brooke said?’

Mettie Eccles said, ‘I’m not sure. I was thinking about her taking _a_
tablet. I had just told her she ought not to take more, but I’m not sure
whether she said “a tablet” or “tablets”. I’m sorry, but I can’t be
certain about it.’

Under the coroner’s questioning she gave a very clear and composed
account of Penny March running over to fetch her next morning, and of
how they had found Connie Brooke lying dead upon her bed. She was
questioned as to the saucepan that had held the cocoa.

‘Did you wash it up and put it away?’

‘Oh, no. She must have done that herself.’

‘It is not for us to assume what Miss Brooke did.’

Mettie Eccles did not exactly toss her head. There was just some slight
indication that she might have done so if she had not been restrained by
respect for the court. What she did do was to say very firmly indeed,
‘Connie would never have left a saucepan dirty.’

There was very little more after that. The police asked for an
adjournment. The coroner left his seat, the spectators streamed away by
ones and twos, the room at the George returned to its normal uses.




                                EIGHTEEN


Valentine Grey was walking in the woods behind the Manor. She had come
there to meet Jason. When he came he put his arms round her and they
stayed like that for quite a long time, just holding one another.
Presently he said, ‘When are we going to get married?’

‘I don’t know. You haven’t ever asked me.’

‘I don’t need to ask you. I couldn’t before I went away, because it
didn’t seem so very likely that I should come back. And now there’s no
need. You know.’

‘I might like to be asked.’

‘On bended knee in the proper romantic style!’ He went down on the
carpet of pine needles and kissed both her hands. ‘Will you do me the
very great honour of marrying me?’

She looked down at him, her eyes shining, her lips not quite steady.
This was not the Valentine who had stood at the chancel step to rehearse
her marriage to Gilbert Earle. Her hand shook in his, her colour came
and went. She said, ‘I don’t know——’ Her voice shook too.

‘You do. You know perfectly well. And mind you, it’s your only chance,
because I certainly shouldn’t let you marry anyone else.’

Her lips quivered into a smile.

‘How would you stop me?’

He got up without letting go of her.

‘I should forbid the banns. You know it’s a thing I’ve always wanted to
do.’

‘Does anyone ever?’

‘Oh, I believe it’s done. You stand up and get it off your chest good
and loud, and the parson stops and says he will see you in the vestry
afterwards. And no one listens to another word of the service, least of
all you, because of course you are thinking up what you are going to say
in the vestry.’

‘And what would you be going to say? It would have to be a just cause or
impediment, you know.’

He said, ‘There’s an old posy ring of my mother’s that I want to give
you. It has been in the family since about the time of the Armada. The
writing inside is so small that you have to use a magnifying glass to
read it, and it has had to be renewed a great many times. It says:

                  If you love me as I love you,
                  Nothing but death shall part us two.

‘Don’t you think that’s a just cause and impediment to your marrying
anyone else?’

‘I suppose—it might be——’

It was some time later that she said, ‘Will you have—to go—again—?’

‘Not to the same places. They got wise to me this time, so I shouldn’t
be very much use. Would you like to settle down and farm?’

‘I’d love it.’

‘Then will you marry me?’

‘Jason, I don’t know. You see, as far as anyone can tell I’m still
engaged to Gilbert. People just think the wedding was put off on account
of Connie Brooke.’

He gave a half angry laugh.

‘That is all you know! I get the low-down from Mrs Needham. Half the
village is talking about poor Mr Earle, and the other half thinks he
must have blotted his copy-book pretty badly or you wouldn’t have done
it. But they are all quite sure that he has been given the push, and
that the wedding is definitely off. The postman has noticed that he
doesn’t write, and the girls in the telephone exchange are quite
positive he hasn’t rung up, so the matter is considered to be settled.
You had better get on with informing the family and putting a notice in
the papers.’

‘Oh, I’ve told Roger and Maggie, and I suppose Roger has told Scilla.
She hasn’t said anything.’

‘And what did Roger and Maggie say?’

She lifted his hand and laid it against her cheek.

‘Oh, Maggie cried and said marriage was very uncertain, and she had
often felt thankful that she had escaped it.’

‘Poor old Maggie.’

‘Darling, she was rather pathetic. She said how unhappy my father and
mother had been, and she talked about Roger and Scilla.’

‘And what did Roger talk about?’

‘He hardly said anything at all. I told him I shouldn’t be marrying
Gilbert, and he didn’t even ask why. He stood with his back to me and
looked out of the window, and all he said was, “Well, I suppose you know
your own business.” So I said yes, I did, and that was just about all.’

Jason did not speak. After a moment she went on.

‘I had one of those horrible letters on Thursday morning. I can’t help
wondering whether Roger had one too.’

‘Tommy did.’

‘Tommy!’

‘Yes, I saw it.’

‘Jason——’

‘Look here, this is just between you and me.’

‘Of course. What did it say?’

‘Accused Gilbert of intending to commit bigamy, and asked Tommy if he
was prepared to aid and abet. Put him in quite a spot. On the one hand
you don’t take any notice of anonymous letters, and on the other you
can’t take a chance about letting a girl in for a bigamous marriage.
Tommy ought to be blessing us for getting him out of the mess.’

She was leaning against him. Gilbert was gone, and everything felt safe
and comfortable. She said, ‘Did Tommy’s letter say Gilbert had married a
girl called Marie Dubois in Canada?’

‘It did. Without saying where or when. Anonymity strictly preserved
throughout. Let me see—he was in Canada, wasn’t he?’

‘A long time ago. He couldn’t have been more than about twenty. I wonder
if he really did marry Marie.’

‘May have done. If he was had for a mug when he was all that young, and
she was dead, he might not have thought it necessary to mention her. Or
there might have been a divorce. I should hardly think he would risk
being run in for bigamy. We’ll ask him about it some day. Just casually,
you know—at a cocktail party, or a railway station, or any of the other
places where you are liable to have a head-on collision with the people
you don’t want to meet.’

‘Darling, what a fool you are!’

What a heavenly feeling to be able to laugh at something that had been a
nightmare. They laughed together. Jason said, ‘What do you bet I don’t
do it? Some day when we are safely married. I would, you know, for
tuppence. Something on the lines of “Oh, by the way, what happened to
that girl you married in Canada, Marie Dubois?” ’

‘You _wouldn’t_!’

‘You wait and see!’




                                NINETEEN


Scilla Repton lifted the telephone receiver in the study and asked for a
London number. Of course the girl in the telephone exchange would listen
if she thought there was anything to listen to, but what did it matter?
If you lived in a village you didn’t have any private affairs to speak
of anyway. If you heard too often from anyone, Mrs Gurney at the post
office got to know the writing and could make a pretty shrewd guess at
the writer. Scilla had heard her say quite openly across the counter
things like, ‘Oh, no, Mrs Lawson, there’s nothing from your Ernie
today—just a card from your sister in Birmingham.’

She waited for the click of the receiver and thought what she was going
to say. It took her some time to get hold of Gilbert Earle, and when she
did get him he couldn’t have sounded stuffier. He heard her laugh.

‘Really, Gilbert—what a voice! Anyone would think we had quarrelled!’

He said in very good French, ‘A little discretion, if you please.’

She sounded amused.

‘I can’t be bothered. Besides there’s nothing to bother about. Roger
tells me the wedding is off, and a good job too. Anyone could see with
half an eye that it was going to be a case of marry in haste and repent
at leisure, so you’re well out of it, if you ask me.’

‘I didn’t ask you.’

She allowed her voice to soften.

‘It’ll all come out in the wash, darling. Look here, I’ve got to come up
to town, and I thought we might lunch together. What about it?’

‘I hardly think this is the moment.’

‘What a foul thing to say! It’s Val who has turned you down, not me. I
thought I might provide a little hand-holding—you sound as if you
needed it. Nothing like being seen about with somebody else as soon as
possible. I mean, darling, how much more agreeable to have people coming
up and asking you who was the smashing blonde you were lunching with,
instead of drifting along to console yourself at some horrid solitary
snack bar. You know, what you want at the moment is a tonic, and so do
I. I’ll say I’m going to the dentist. That always goes down well, and as
a matter of fact I’m about due for a date with him. And Mamie would lend
us her flat and not ask any questions. So Monday at the old place at one
o’clock. The best of everything!’ She rang off in a hurry because she
thought she heard a movement behind her.

But she had not rung off in time. The sound which she had heard was not
the sound of the opening but of the closing door. Roger Repton was
already in the room. The latch clicked, he leaned back against the
panels, and said in an odd dead voice, ‘Who were you talking to?’

She said the first name that came into her head, the one she had used to
Gilbert Earle.

‘Mamie Foster. I’ve got to go and see the dentist, and I thought I’d go
back to her flat afterwards and have a bit of a rest before coming down
again. He may want to give me gas.’

He stood there with his hand on the door behind him.

‘That is a lie.’

‘Roger!’

His voice had not altered. She knew his temper to be a violent one.
There was something unnatural about this laden tone. He said, ‘You were
not talking to Mamie Foster, you were talking about her. You were going
to meet Gilbert Earle, and you were talking to him. You said, “I’ll say
I’m going to the dentist—that always goes down well. And Mamie would
lend us her flat and not ask any questions.” And you would meet him at
the old place at one o’clock on Monday. You see, it’s no use telling any
more lies, because I know. If you have been in the habit of meeting him
at Mamie Foster’s flat, it should be possible to get evidence of the
fact, in which case I shall divorce you. Someone was kind enough to send
me an anonymous letter informing me that you have been having an affair
with Gilbert. I think Valentine probably had a letter too. I haven’t
asked her, and she hasn’t said so, but I imagine that you have had your
share in breaking up her marriage. You can go to Gilbert Earle, or you
can go to your accommodating friend Mamie Foster, or you can go to hell.
But I should like you to get out of my house.’ He stood away from the
door and opened it. ‘You had better go and pack.’

She was between fear and anger. Something desperate in her was urging
her to burn her boats. Why not kick over the traces, upset the apple
cart, and get back to the old life? She was better looking than she had
ever been, and her figure was just as good. She could get back into the
show business, and Gilbert would come to heel all right. She was fed to
the teeth with the country and with Roger. But she was frightened of
this desperate urge. She could remember the times when she had been out
of a job—when she was cold, tired, hungry, and nobody cared a damn
whether she lived or died. If Roger divorced her she would lose the
money he had settled on her. There were the horrid words in the
settlement which the lawyer had been careful to explain to her—_dum
casta_, whilst chaste. If she went through the divorce court she
wouldn’t get a penny. But if she stayed here—if she could stick it
out—and Roger died ... She wouldn’t be so badly off at all ... He was
getting on ...

All these thoughts were in her mind like birds beating against a window.
It was the fear that broke through. She heard herself saying in a loud
scornful voice, ‘An anonymous letter? One of those filthy things that
have been going round? How dare you!’

He made no response to her heat as he said, ‘A filthy letter about a
filthy thing.’

‘Lies—lies—_lies_!’

He shook his head.

‘I don’t think so. The letter was quite circumstantial. You were with
Gilbert Earle and you were spied on, and I think I know by whom. I think
I know who wrote the letter.’

She put up her hand to her throat. The pulse of anger beat there—the
pulse of fear.

‘Who was it?’

‘You would like to know, wouldn’t you? Perhaps it was you yourself. It
would have been one way of breaking off Valentine’s marriage, wouldn’t
it? It would have been one way of getting out of your own! What do you
and your friends care about divorce—it doesn’t mean anything to you!
But you had better be sure that Gilbert will marry you before you walk
out.’

She said in a voice that was edged with anger, ‘I thought you were
_turning_ me out! Suppose I haven’t got anywhere to go to! Suppose I
just say I’m going to stay!’

He had a sense of having gone too far, of having embarked upon a course
which would involve them all in a devastating scandal. If he went any
farther, there could be no turning back. How far had she really gone
herself—how far had she meant to go? Gilbert wouldn’t marry her if he
could help it. He had an empty title coming to him. He couldn’t afford a
scandal, and he couldn’t afford to marry a woman who wouldn’t have a
penny. These were not consecutive thoughts. They were there in the
cooling temper of his mind.

They had both forgotten the open door. Roger remembered it now. He
pushed it to as he said, ‘I have no desire to put myself in the wrong by
turning you out. You can make your plans, and you can take your time. In
any case you’ll have to stay over Tuesday. There must be no scandal
before that poor girl’s funeral.’

It was very disappointing for Florrie Stokes when the study door was
closed. She had come through into the hall on her lawful business of
seeing to the fires and drawing the curtains before dinner. She couldn’t
help hearing the angry voices in the study, because it was the first
room she came to, only of course when she heard the way Colonel Repton
was talking she knew better than to go in. She didn’t mean to
listen—well, not really—but the way the Colonel was talking, not loud
but ever so distinct and bitter—well, she just couldn’t help it. And
the very first thing she heard was something about getting evidence of
Mrs Repton meeting Mr Gilbert at her friend Mamie Foster’s flat and
going for a divorce. And he went on, ‘You can go to Gilbert Earle, or
you can go to your accommodating friend Mamie Foster, or you can go to
hell. But I should like you to get out of my house.’ And when he got as
far as that the door began to open, and it was all she could do to get
back out of sight. Even then if Mrs Repton had come out, she would have
been caught. But Mrs Repton didn’t come out. She said very clear and
angry—something about an anonymous letter and, ‘How dare you!’

After that Florrie just couldn’t tear herself away. With the door open,
she could stand right back against the baize door which went through
into the kitchen premises. If one of them put a foot into the hall she
would be just coming to her work and nothing to say how long she had
been there. She could hear everything they said, and it was as good as
being at the pictures. Of course everyone knew Mrs Repton was flighty,
just the same as they knew she’d been carrying on with Mr Gilbert on the
sly. And serve her right if the Colonel had found her out. She’d got a
husband of her own, hadn’t she, and it was a downright shame doing
anything to upset Miss Valentine’s marriage. Only of course now that Mr
Jason was back Miss Valentine would never want anyone but him—they all
knew that.

When Scilla came out of the study door with an angry spot on either
cheek Florrie had just let the baize door swing to behind her.




                                 TWENTY


It was Florrie’s afternoon out. Her mother worked at the George because
Mr Stokes enjoyed bad health. There were three daughters and a son, and
they all lived at home and contributed to Dad’s upkeep. They were a very
affectionate family, and if it was fifteen years since Mr Stokes had
earned anything, he was at any rate a very good cook and always had
something tasty ready for tea when the family came home. He had a very
light hand with pastry, and as Florrie said, though not in Mrs Glazier’s
hearing, he could cook bacon and sausages and fry fish to beat the band.
It was well known that alluring offers had been made to him from several
quarters, but Mr Stokes was not to be lured. He had mysterious turns
which no doctor had ever been able to diagnose. He had not, in fact, a
great deal of faith in doctors, an attitude fully reciprocated, Dr
Taylor going as far as to allude to him as an old humbug. This was
doubtless the case, in spite of which the whole family was a very
cheerful and united one.

When Florence came in he was reading the paper and sipping herbal tea, a
quite horrid beverage the recipe for which had been handed down in his
family for a hundred years and was a closely guarded secret. Nothing
would have induced any of his children to touch it. Florrie wrinkled her
nose at the smell, kissed the top of his head, and plunged into gossip.

‘There’s been ever such a row up at the Manor.’

Mr Stokes allowed his paper to slide on to the floor. It contained
nothing as exciting as what might have been termed The Repton Serial.
What with the talk there had been about Mrs Repton—her clothes, her
make-up, the rumours about her having been a model, to say nothing of
what he stigmatized as her carryings on, and then Miss Valentine’s
wedding being broken off—and anyone could guess why that was—and
Connie Brooke dying off sudden as she had, and the police looking into
it—well, there hadn’t been a dull moment. He enquired with avidity,
‘Why—what’s up now? Been any more of that poison pen?’

Florrie shook her head.

‘Not that I know of.’

‘Miss Valentine had a letter Thursday?’

‘I told you she did.’

‘And the Colonel too? And Sam Boxer says there was one went to the
parsonage—all of them the spit and image of each other. And the police
been at him about them. I told him straight what he did ought to have
done was to face up to ’em and say, “I’m a postman, that’s what I
am—I’m not a detective. I got enough work to do delivering of my
letters. It isn’t no part of my business to be studying of ’em.” That’s
what he did ought to have said and saved himself a lot er trouble. It’s
got nothing to do with him, and so I told him. Or anyone else that I can
see. Spilt milk won’t go back in the jug, nor broken-off weddings won’t
come on again, not for the police nor yet for no one, so what’s the row
about now?’

Florrie was bursting with it, but it wasn’t any good for her to start
anything till Dad had had his say. You might just have been seeing a
murder, but if there was something Dad wanted to talk about, you had to
let him get in first.

But as soon as the coast was clear it all came tumbling out.

‘Colonel and Mrs Repton have had ever such a row. I could hear them in
the study. Their voices was ever so loud—at least not the Colonel’s but
there was something about it—it seemed to come right through the door.
I was coming through to draw the curtains, and I could hear him say she
could go to Mr Earle, or she could go to her friend Mamie Foster—that’s
the one she’s always writing to—or she could go to hell.’

Mr Stokes sat with a cup of herbal tea in his hand. He had been going to
take a sip, but the movement had been checked. His eyes fairly sparkled
and his small monkey-features displayed the liveliest interest as he
said, ‘He never!’

Florrie nodded.

‘Cross my heart he did! And told her to get out of his house, and the
sooner the better—at least that’s what it sounded like—and threw open
the door and told her to go and pack.’

‘Well, I _never_!’

Florrie nodded again, even more emphatically.

‘And I got caught as near as a toucher. I don’t know how I got out of
the way in time, I don’t really. I wouldn’t have, only they didn’t come
out—not then. And the door stayed open, so I could hear all the rest of
it—and my goodness if it wasn’t a Row! There was something about a
letter he’d had—and that would be the one that came Thursday
morning—and he said it was a filthy letter about a filthy thing.’

‘He didn’t!’

‘He did, _straight_! And she screaming out that it was all a lie! And
then he said he knew quite well who it was as had written all those
letters, and she said who was it, and he said wouldn’t she like to know.
And then—Dad, what do you think he said then? He said maybe she’d
written the letters herself! It didn’t sound sense to me, but that’s
what he said. He said it would be one way of breaking off Miss
Valentine’s marriage and getting out of her own, only she’d better make
sure Mr Gilbert would marry her before she walked out!’

Mr Stokes took a sip of the sickly looking greenish fluid in the cup he
was holding and swallowed it with relish. He said, ‘Who’d a thought it!
Has she gone?’

Florrie shook her head.

‘No—nor doesn’t mean to, if you ask me. Said how was he going to make
her go if she didn’t want to? And I’d say that brought him up with a bit
of a turn, but I didn’t rightly hear any more, because that’s where he
shut the door, and I didn’t like to go near it again.’

‘Then how do you know she isn’t going off?’

Florrie giggled.

‘I’ve got eyes and ears, haven’t I? The Colonel, he banged out—took the
car. He just told Miss Maggie he wouldn’t be home to lunch and off he
went. Mrs Repton, she came down as if nothing had happened, and she
hadn’t been packing neither, for I looked in her room. And at lunch,
when Miss Maggie was talking about poor Miss Connie’s funeral and saying
of course they would all go, and had they anything like mourning that
they could wear, Miss Valentine said she hadn’t anything but grey, but
she could wear a black hat with it. And Mrs Repton—you know how bright
she dresses—she said all she’d got was a smart navy suit which wouldn’t
be at all right, but she supposed it would have to do. So the funeral
not being till Tuesday, it doesn’t look as if she was thinking of
getting off in a hurry, does it?’

‘She wouldn’t want to make talk,’ said Mr Stokes. ‘There’d be a lot of
talk if she went away before the funeral. Not but what there’ll be a lot
of talk anyway.’

It would not be the fault of the Stokes family if there were not. When
Florrie’s elder sister Betty came in the whole story had to be gone over
again. And when Ivy was added to the family party, and the son Bob, and
presently Florrie’s boyfriend and Betty’s boyfriend dropped in, it was
all repeated. And with each repetition there was a tendency to place
more and more emphasis on the fact that Colonel Repton had said he knew
who had written the anonymous letters.

Later on that evening Florrie and her boy went over in the bus to
Ledlington to the pictures. Waiting in the bus queue were Jessie Price
and Hilda Peck. After such preliminaries as, ‘You know how I am about
not talking,’ and ‘You won’t let it go any further, will you?’ Florrie
passed from hinting to narrative, the story lasting most of the way over
in the bus, with the result that the boy friend, who was not really very
much interested in anything except himself and his motor-bike with
Florrie a bad third, began to show signs of temper. How many people
Hilda and Jessie told is not on record, but they were competent
newsmongers.

Betty Stokes, who had been going steady with Mrs Gurney’s son Reg for
the past two years and was expecting to be engaged at Christmas, went
round with him to his mother’s, where they spent the evening. In the
intervals of playing rummy she related the latest instalment of the
Manor serial. It was received with a good deal of interest.

Ivy, who was only sixteen, ran over to a girl friend who was also one of
a large family. Her version of the row at the Manor was certainly the
least accurate of the three, but not on that account the least
interesting. She had a lively imagination and a good deal of dramatic
sense. Her performance in a play got up in aid of the local Women’s
Institute had been noticed in the _Ledshire Observer_. Her rendering of
the Repton quarrel was an exciting one.

‘Florrie, she was right next the door and she couldn’t help hearing him
tell her he knew all about the way she’d been carrying on, and she could
go to hell. Those were his very words, and they didn’t half give Florrie
a turn. She came over so queer, because she thought whatever should she
do if the Colonel got really violent. She couldn’t just stand there
outside the door and let Mrs Repton be half killed—now could she? And
the Colonel might have turned on her if she’d come between them. Just
like something out of a film it was. Florrie said her heart beat ever
so. And the Colonel says, “Leave my house!” he says. And she says, “How
are you going to make me, I’d like to know.” And they get on to those
poison-pen letters, and he carries on something dreadful and he says he
knows who wrote them ...’ And so forth and so on, the girl friend’s
family coming in with appropriate responses and a good time being had by
all.

It was not until late that night and just before she dropped asleep that
the girl friend’s mother was suddenly visited by the thought of Connie
Brooke. It was a vague ghost thought without clarity or definition, but
it went with her into her sleep and it was still there when she woke in
the morning. If she could have put it into words they would have been
something like this: ‘Connie Brooke knew who wrote those letters, and
she is dead.’




                               TWENTY-ONE


There are days which come up so bright and fair that they hardly seem to
belong to the workaday world. When Miss Silver rose next morning to
golden sunshine and an unclouded sky she reflected that it was doubly
pleasant and appropriate that such halcyon weather should adorn a
Sunday. She recalled George Herbert’s words:

                Sweet day, so cool, so calm, so bright,
                The bridal of the earth and sky—

The end of the verse, with its reference to the dew which would weep the
fall and death of the lovely day, she considered to be morbid, and did
not therefore allow her thought to dwell upon it. She found the service
in the old church most pleasant and restful, the lessons read plainly
and well, a simple sermon, hearty untrained singing, and Mettie Eccles
at the organ.

As they walked home afterwards, Miss Renie said in a plaintive voice,
‘Mettie has always played. She has so much energy, but my dear sister
used to say that her touch was hard. Esther had a very cultivated
musical taste.’

Miss Silver remarked that she had liked Mr Martin’s sermon. Miss Renie’s
very slight sniff might have escaped a less acute observer.

‘He has been here a long time, and people are fond of him, but he does
not keep up his dignity,’ she said. Then, with an abrupt transition, ‘I
suppose you noticed that there was no one in the Manor pew?’

The following day was dull and rainy. It was Miss Maggie’s afternoon for
the Work Party which, begun during the war, had proved so pleasant a
social gathering that it had established itself as a permanency. There
were, unfortunately, always the displaced and the distressed to work
for, and no lack of piteous appeals for their relief. The party met at a
different house each week, and its members vied with each other in the
provision of simple refreshments. There had been some considerable
speculation as to whether Miss Maggie would take her turn this time or
allow it to pass to someone else. Opinion was divided on the subject,
some ladies considering that the Reptons had had enough on their hands,
and that it would really be more delicate if they remained in retirement
until after Connie’s funeral, whilst others held the view that the Work
Party was not so much a Party as a Good Work and as such nothing should
be allowed to interfere with it. Mettie Eccles made herself the
mouth-piece for this second view, and not without authority, since she
allowed it to be known that Miss Maggie had consulted her.

‘She asked for my advice, and I had no hesitation in saying that if she
felt up to it, the Work Party should go on. After all, none of us know
when some distant connection may pass away. If a charitable activity
like the Work Party is to be chopped and changed whenever anything like
that happens, we shall none of us ever know where we are. I told Maggie
very decidedly indeed that she ought not to let it make any difference,
always provided she felt up to seeing us all, and she said at once that
it would be the greatest help. And I said to her, “It isn’t as if poor
Connie was anything but the _most_ distant connection. It was your
grandfather’s sister Florence who married Connie’s great-grandfather on
the mother’s side as his third wife. And she never had any children of
her own, which was just as well, because there were fifteen already, but
I believe she made the most admirable stepmother.” ’

After which there was no more to be said.

In spite of the damp afternoon there was quite an unusual attendance.
The Manor had been the centre of interest all the week, and now on the
top of everything else there was a perfect buzz of talk about the
Reptons having had a really terrible quarrel.

‘It came from one of the maids ... It came from Florrie Stokes ... All
the Stokes family are such terrible talkers, and Mr Stokes is the worst
of the lot ... They say Scilla Repton was carrying on with Gilbert
Earle, and that’s why the wedding was broken off ... My dear, how
dreadful!... They say Colonel Repton is going to divorce her ... He was
crazy to marry her in the first place—he was old enough to know better
... Oh, my dear, no man is ever too old to make a fool of himself over a
woman ...’

And first, last, and all the time, ‘He said he knew who had written the
anonymous letters ... Florrie heard him with her own ears ... The door
was open and he shouted it out quite loud ... He said he knew who had
written the letters, and perhaps it was Scilla herself ...’

Nobody in Tilling Green was going to miss an opportunity of mingling
with the characters in so exciting a drama. Not that they really
expected Roger to mingle with them. The utmost that anyone expected to
see of him would be a brief encounter in the hall on arrival or when
going away. Scilla Repton was also not to be counted upon. She would
occasionally make a brief appearance in corduroy slacks, crimson or
emerald worn with a vividly contrasting jumper, drawl out a few bored
sentences, and then vanish from the scene. When the Work Party was
actually in the Manor she did as a rule come in at tea-time. If she
absented herself today, Florrie’s story would be confirmed. And anyhow
Miss Maggie would be there, and Valentine, and it should be perfectly
possible to tell from their looks and manner whether anything was going
on.

When Maggie Repton was worried she couldn’t keep her fingers still. She
had to be fidgeting with this and that and the other. As she received
them this afternoon, it was quite obvious to these people who knew her
so well that she had something on her mind. Her long sallow face
twitched, and when she was not actually shaking hands, her bony fingers
were plucking at the cut steel chain about her neck or feeling for the
handkerchief which she constantly mislaid.

She had thought that she could manage to get through the afternoon, but
now she didn’t feel as if she could. Roger had said that she ought to do
it, and Mettie had said that she ought to do it, so here she was in the
drawing-room in the dress which she always wore on these occasions. Not
her best, because that would look pretentious, and though it was only
purple and that counted as half mourning, she wouldn’t quite like to
wear it until after the funeral. Her usual dress was fortunately quite
suitable—two years old, and of a very dark grey with a little black
fancy stitching on the yoke and cuffs.

Roger had said very emphatically, ‘Oh, yes, yes—go on and have the Work
Party! What difference does it make? Except that if you don’t have it,
you will start everyone talking all over again.’ He went as far as the
door, put his hand on it, and spoke without turning round. ‘There’ll be
plenty to talk about, but let us get this funeral over first.’

Miss Maggie gave a little gasp.

‘What—what do you mean?’

He threw a brief glance over his shoulder.

‘Divorce—Scilla is clearing out. You may as well know it now as later.’

‘Clearing out—?’

‘And not coming back. She has been having an affair with Gilbert
Earle—if that’s the worst of it. I’ve come to the end. She must go.’ He
jerked at the handle of the door and went out, shutting it sharply
behind him.

Maggie Repton felt her way to a chair and sat down. It was quite a long
time before she went through to the drawing-room. When she did so,
people were already beginning to arrive. They glanced uneasily at her
and at one another. Maggie Repton was always sallow, but this afternoon
her skin had a curious greyish tinge. It might have been partly due to
the light, the rain having turned into the kind of mist which drains the
colour out of everything, but it wasn’t the light that gave her that
wandering look and set her fingers shaking.

Valentine, on the contrary, did not look in the least like a deserted
bride. She was not in colours—she wore a cream jumper and a grey tweed
skirt, a compromise which was very generally approved. But there was a
kind of bloom and glow about her which had been rather noticeably absent
during the days preceding what should have been her wedding. After no
more than a single glance there was a warm and unanimous feeling that
whoever was plunged in gloom and distress, it was not dear Valentine.

Miss Silver had by now met quite a number of the ladies present. She
found herself impressed by the efficiency with which Miss Eccles
appeared to be presiding in what was, after all, someone else’s house.
Certainly no one who did not know would have taken Miss Maggie for the
hostess. It is true that she was not wearing a hat, but after the first
few minutes this failed to distinguish her, since Mettie Eccles and
quite a number of the other ladies had preferred to remove their
headgear before sitting down to do needlework. For this purpose they
adjourned to the hall, either by ones and twos or in small groups. There
was a mirror there, and a chest upon which coats, hats and scarves would
be piled.

They came back into the room and disposed themselves on the comfortable
old-fashioned chairs and sofas. Thimbles were put on, scissors laid
ready, half-made garments produced, knitting-needles and wool extracted
from capacious bags. Miss Silver found herself on a sofa next to a large
and important looking lady in black and white tweeds. She wore pearl
studs in her ears, and she had very fine dark eyes. She was also the
only woman in the room who was not provided with some sort of work. At
first occupied in exchanging nods and greetings with some of the other
women, she turned presently to her immediate companion and remarked,
‘How very well you knit. Let me see, you are Renie Wayne’s p.g., aren’t
you? Miss Silver, isn’t it? I’m Nora Mallett—Lady Mallett. I’m a
relation of the Reptons, and I’m here under completely false pretences,
because I really came over to see Maggie. This poor girl Connie dying so
suddenly and Val’s wedding being put off, I thought I had better just
make sure that Maggie hadn’t packed up altogether. If I had any idea
that there would be Work Party business going on I shouldn’t have come.
As it is, I’m just waiting for a chance to get Maggie to myself for five
minutes, so I don’t want to get involved with anyone it will be
difficult to get away from.’

Oddly enough, this bluntness didn’t give offence. There was so much
warmth in voice and manner, so strong an expression of kindness, as to
make her seem merely frank. Miss Silver found herself forming a
favourable impression. She said with a smile, ‘My own work, I am afraid,
is of quite a private character. I am making a twin set for my niece’s
little girl. The jumper is finished. This is the cardigan.’

Lady Mallett admired the stitch, asked a number of questions about
little Josephine, about her brothers, her parents. Always ready to talk
of her dear Ethel, Miss Silver responded, and it was not until some time
had passed that they reverted to their more immediate surroundings, Miss
Silver reproaching herself for having been led into taking too much of
Lady Mallett’s attention.

Nora Mallett gave her rolling laugh.

‘Oh, I’m always interested in people, you know, and there isn’t really
any particular hurry.’ She carefully dropped her voice as she continued.
‘I just don’t want to get buttonholed by Mettie Eccles. We’re some sort
of cousins, you know, and she always tries to lay down the law to me. As
for getting Maggie to myself, I don’t suppose there’s a hope.’ She
turned to look across the room to where Miss Repton drooped over a
pattern which she and at least three other people were endeavouring to
accommodate to what was obviously a short length of material. With a
laugh and a shrug she turned back again. ‘They might as well give it
up—and so might I! I wonder how long before Mettie—oh, she’s going
over to them. And now, my dear Miss Silver, you will see that the
pattern will be made to behave itself and come out right. If Mettie
wants things to go a certain way, well, they go that way. The only time
she didn’t bring it off was the one that mattered the most to her, poor
thing.’

Nora Mallett’s tongue was notoriously indiscreet, but she would probably
not have proceeded any further if it had not been for that something
about the quality of Miss Silver’s listening which had caused her to
receive so many confidences. And after all, there really wasn’t any
secret about the fact that Mettie Eccles had always been devoted to
Roger. The words slid off her tongue.

‘Odd, isn’t it, but you stop being clever when you care too much, and
that’s a fact. She would have made Roger just the sort of wife he ought
to have had, and I don’t suppose it ever occurred to him. Men are so
horribly stupid! There she was under his nose—he saw her every day of
his life—and so he really never saw her at all! Have you met his wife?’

‘I have seen her.’

Lady Mallett shrugged the ample shoulders under the black and white
tweed.

‘Oh well, then, there isn’t much need to say any more, is there?’ Like
so many people who make this type of remark, she then proceeded to say
quite a number of things. ‘Thirty years younger than he is, and a great
deal too ornamental! What was it one of those old poets said about
someone being too bright and good for something or other? I don’t know
that I should use the word good, but she is certainly too _bright_ for
Tilling Green.’

With a slight preliminary cough Miss Silver supplied the information
that the poet was Wordsworth, and that what he really said was:

                     Not too bright and good
                     For human nature’s daily food.

Nora Mallett laughed good humouredly.

‘Daily food! My dear, what a cannibal! You know, I’m being horribly
indiscreet, but sometimes it’s a tremendous relief just to let go and
say what you feel, and if you do it to a stranger it matters so much
less than giving yourself and everyone else away to an intimate friend
who is quite certain to pass it on.’

Miss Silver’s needles were moving briskly. She looked at the blue frill
which was lengthening there and said, ‘It is sometimes much easier to
talk to a stranger.’

Lady Mallett nodded.

‘The looker-on who sees most of the game! Now tell me—what is everyone
saying about the wedding? Do they think it’s just put off, or what?’

‘Mr Earle’s absence has occasioned some comment.’

Lady Mallett laughed.

‘Well, it would, wouldn’t it! Gilbert goes off, the other young man
stays put, and Val has got stars in her eyes. I don’t mind saying that I
like Jason the better of the two, though I’m sure I don’t know why. He
can be shockingly rude, and he has been making Val unhappy, but if she
wants him she’d better have him, so long as he doesn’t go off into the
blue again and leave her to break her heart.’

Since she had only seen Jason Leigh in the distance, Miss Silver could
do no more than reply that it was extremely difficult to lay down any
rules for happiness in marriage, but that kindness, unselfishness and
mutual consideration must always be important factors.

‘Most people would say that sounded very old-fashioned!’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘The institution of marriage has been going on for a very long time.’

‘And people still go making a mess of it! Well, some of us are lucky.
When I married Tim you’ve no idea the things everybody said!’ She
laughed with gusto. ‘I said quite a few myself!—“He had come up from
nowhere,” and the answer to that was, “You can’t keep a good man
down.”—“Nobody had ever heard of his people.” “Perhaps not,” I told
them, “But they are going to hear about _him_.” “He’s nothing to look
at.” “Well, well,” I said, “I never did care about having everything in
the shop window.” You know, I think that’s why I don’t like Gilbert
Earle—there’s such a lot in his shop window that it sets me wondering
whether there’s anything in the shop. In my husband’s case there was
such a lot put away behind that I’m not through with finding out about
it yet. The only thing that hasn’t panned out is the family we were
going to have. It just never came along, which I suppose is the reason
why Mettie and I have got to have our fingers in other people’s pies. If
I’d had half a dozen children to worry about, I shouldn’t have had
nearly so much time to run around interfering with my neighbour’s
affairs.’

For a moment there was a brightness which might have been moisture in
the fine dark eyes. Then she laughed and said, ‘Oh well, I’ve got plenty
on my plate for one woman. What were we talking about before I got off
on to me? Scilla, wasn’t it? I’ll tell you one thing, I don’t wonder
she’s bored to death down here. I’m not, and you wouldn’t be, but what
about a girl who has never lived where there weren’t lamps in the
streets, buses, neon lights, oodles of shops, and a cinema round every
corner? Why, even when the war was on those poor women who were
evacuated to this kind of place—it only took them about two minutes to
get over being blown up in their beds and to start handkering after
going back again. And of course one can see their point. As long as they
weren’t actually being bombed, the town gave them everything they
wanted—company, crowds, the fried-fish shop, and lots and lots going
on. And what had the country got to give them in exchange—dark
frightening lanes, the general shop, no one to speak to, and nothing to
do. You see what I mean? And Scilla hasn’t even got the possibility of
bombs to put her off the life she used to live. I don’t pretend to like
her, but I’m sorry for her all the same!’




                               TWENTY-TWO


They went into the dining-room for tea. As they crossed the hall, Scilla
Repton came out of her sitting-room. The word which Lady Mallett had
employed to describe her immediately sprang to Miss Silver’s
mind—bright. In contrast with the black, grey, and drab of all the
other female garments present Mrs Repton’s appearance might even have
been stigmatized as garish. She wore a skirt of an imitation tartan in
which the predominant colours were scarlet, yellow and green. Her shoes
were red, and her pale shining hair hung down over a jumper of emerald
wool. Perhaps it was all these colours which gave her a curiously hard
look. It occurred to Miss Silver that without her make-up she might have
been pale. She spoke to one or two people, and as she entered the
dining-room she came face-to-face with Maggie Repton. Miss Silver, a
little behind her, had a most vivid impression of Miss Maggie’s recoil.
She not only stopped, but she stepped back and put up a shaking hand as
if to ward off any contact. For a moment her face was contorted. It was
as if she had suddenly seen something that shocked her. Afterwards, when
Miss Repton had given her evidence, Miss Silver knew what it was that
she had seen—Roger’s unfaithful wife who was leaving him, the woman who
had broken off Valentine’s marriage. She had shrunk away from the sight
and felt the room go round with her.

The hand that steadied her was Miss Silver’s. She found herself guided
to a chair, and was glad to sink down upon it. A voice that was as kind
as it was firm advised her to bend forward.

‘If you will drop the handkerchief you are holding and stoop to pick it
up, no one will notice anything. Just stay here, and I will bring you a
cup of tea.’

During the general movement in the direction of the long table at which
tea was being served the incident had passed unnoticed. When Miss Silver
returned with a cup in either hand Miss Maggie had recovered
sufficiently to thank her.

‘How very kind of you. I really don’t know what came over me. You are
staying with Renie Wayne, are you not? I think I saw you with her on
Wednesday at that unfortunate rehearsal.’

‘Yes, indeed.’

‘Then you will understand that we have had a great deal to trouble us
this week. I haven’t been able to sleep. I am afraid I am not as strong
as I should like to be.’

Nothing could have exceeded Miss Silver’s sympathetic attention.

‘Why do you not just slip away and lie down for a little? Your niece
could look after the Work Party, and I am sure that everyone would
understand.’

Miss Maggie had got no further than, ‘You are very kind——’ when Mettie
Eccles emerged from the crowd about the tea-table and came towards them.
She held a large cup in one hand and a plate with sandwiches and cake
upon it in the other. She paused to say briefly, ‘I’ll take these in to
Roger. Florrie tells me he is in the study. It’s too much to expect him
to join such a mob of women for tea.’

‘My dear Mettie!’

Mettie Eccles gave a short laugh.

‘Well, we are a mob, aren’t we? Men prefer women one at a time, my
dear.’

She went on her way, and presently came back again, her face cold and
shut down: Miss Maggie made a small vexed sound.

‘There—I knew he wouldn’t like it—her taking him in his tea, you know.
I’m sure she meant it so very kindly, but I think he would rather she
had let it alone. I am afraid she may have noticed that he wasn’t
pleased, and it has hurt her feelings. She is a cousin, you know, though
rather a distant one, and we have known her always. Dear me, how good
you are to me! I am really feeling quite revived. Do you think I could
just sit here quietly with you for a little longer? I am finding it so
restful. Or do you think it would be remarked?’

Miss Silver smiled benignly.

‘What could anyone say or think, except that you were most kindly
entertaining a stranger?’

Later on when the tea interval was nearly over Miss Eccles passed them
again. She said in a determined voice, ‘I am going to see whether Roger
will have another cup,’ and went on and out of the door.

The room had been emptying. Ladies who were going to handle
light-coloured needlework made their way to the downstairs cloakroom to
wash their hands. Scilla Repton had disappeared. There were not more
than half a dozen people in the dining-room. About as many more were
crossing the hall, amongst them Miss Maggie and Miss Silver, when the
study door was wrenched open. Mettie Eccles stood on the threshold. She
held on to the jamb and her face was ghastly. Her lips moved, but for
once she had no words. Then, as Miss Silver went quickly towards her,
the words came——

‘He’s dead—Roger is dead!’




                              TWENTY-THREE


The sound trembled and died. It is to be doubted whether anyone who was
more than a few feet away could have heard it. But it had reached Mettie
Eccles herself. The hand that had clutched at the jamb went up to her
throat. She turned back into the room. Miss Silver, following her, saw
that Roger Repton had fallen forward across his desk. His hands were
clenched and his face was hidden. The cup of tea which Miss Eccles had
brought him had been overturned. The plate with its sandwiches and slice
of sodden cake was awash. To the right of the table there was a
miniature decanter. It was empty, with the stopper beside it. A broken
tumbler lay in a scatter of glass. There was a cut on Colonel Repton’s
clenched right hand, but no blood flowed from it. With one side of her
orderly mind Miss Silver took note of all these things. With another and
wholly womanly part she felt a deep compassion for Mettie Eccles, who
knelt by the dead man, saying his name over and over in a tone of
agonised protest.

‘No—no—no, Roger! Oh, Roger, _no_!’

A fire burned on the hearth, the room was full of tobacco smoke. On that
warm, still air there floated a smell of almonds. It was not the first
time that Miss Silver had encountered it in a criminal case. She had
knelt over the body of a woman poisoned by cyanide, and been aware of
it. When she lay her steady fingers upon Roger Repton’s wrist she did
not expect to find a living pulse. There was none.

As she stood there, a few people had begun to cluster round the door and
to look in. Scilla Repton had pushed through them. Walking up to the
table, she said abruptly, ‘What is going on? Is Roger ill?’

Miss Silver lifted her hand from the dead wrist and turned to meet her.

‘Mrs Repton—I’m afraid——’

Mettie Eccles got to her feet.

‘You needn’t be,’ she said. ‘And you needn’t trouble to break it to her,
because she knows.’

Scilla’s delicate make-up appeared suddenly ghastly as the natural
colour beneath it drained away, leaving her face like a mask with
vermilion lips. She said, ‘What do you mean?’ and Mettie Eccles told
her.

‘You know very well that Roger is dead, because you killed him.’

Lady Mallett had loomed up beside them. She put a hand on Mettie’s arm
and said in a horrified voice, ‘You can’t say things like that—oh, my
dear Mettie, you can’t——’

The hand was shaken off. Those very bright blue eyes blazed at her.
Mettie said loudly, ‘I shall tell the truth, and no one is going to stop
me! She never cared for him, and now she has killed him! Do you suppose
I am going to hold my tongue? She is an adulteress, and he found her
out! He was sending her away, and he was going to divorce her! So she
has killed him!’

Miss Silver said in her quiet voice, ‘Lady Mallett, the police must be
notified. No one else should come in. I think the door should be locked.
Perhaps you will kindly see to it. Mrs Repton——’

Scilla Repton turned on her.

‘Who do you think you are—giving orders in my house! Who does Mettie
Eccles think she is—talking like that! Everyone knows she’s been off
the deep end about Roger for years and he wouldn’t look at her! A damned
interfering old maid with a finger in everybody’s pie! I’ll have the law
on her—that’s what I’ll do! You heard what she said, and I’ll make her
pay through the nose for saying it!’

As her voice rose loud and shrill, Miss Silver reflected how quickly
fear and anger can strip off the veneer of breeding. The languid,
graceful woman with her tones modelled to the current fashion was gone.
Instead, there was a London girl who knew what it was to fight for her
own hand and was perfectly capable of doing so. Her colour had come back
with a rush.

Mettie Eccles stood as if she had been turned to stone. The anger had
gone out of her. Her limbs were heavy and her eyes dazzled. All she
wanted now was to sit in the dark and weep. But she came of a fighting
stock—she would not go back on what she had said. She repeated it with
a dry tongue.

‘You killed him——’

It was at this moment, and just as Lady Mallett was about to close the
door, that Maggie Repton had come down the hall. There had been a
whisper of talk, and it had reached her. If Roger was ill, she must go
to him. It didn’t matter if she felt ill herself, she must go to Roger.
She saw Nora Mallett, but she was not to be stayed.

‘Maggie——’

‘If Roger is ill, I must go to him.’

She walked past her, and saw what was to be seen—Roger lying sprawled
across his desk, and the three people who were standing there and were
not doing anything to help him——

Miss Silver who was so kind—but she was a stranger.

Scilla, who was his wife, his unfaithful wife.

And Mettie who loved him.

Why were none of them doing anything to help Roger? She heard Mettie
Eccles say, ‘You killed him——’ and she saw Scilla Repton step forward
and strike her across the face.




                              TWENTY-FOUR


Maggie Repton lay on her bed with the eiderdown drawn up to her chin.
Like everything else in the room it was old and rather shabby. Miss
Repton remembered her mother buying it at the Army and Navy Stores in
Victoria Street. The cover was only cotton, but the down was of the very
best quality, and it had cost £2 10_s_ 0_d._, which in those days had
seemed quite a large price for an eiderdown. It was still very warm, and
light, and comforting. She became aware of a hot-water bottle at her
feet. That was comforting too. And there was something else—kindness
and the sense of a reassuring presence. It was getting dark outside. A
small shaded lamp stood on the washstand. It was beyond her range of
vision, so that it did not dazzle her, but the light was pleasant in the
room. She turned her head on the pillow and identified the presence
which she found consoling. Miss Silver sat beside her knitting.

For a little while the warmth, the soft light, the sense of comfort and
security, were between Maggie Repton and the things that had happened at
the Work Party. Then they came back—Roger lying dead across his own
writing-table—the smashed glass and empty decanter—poor Mettie calling
his name, accusing Scilla, and Scilla striking her. She put out a long
hand and said with a gasp, ‘Oh, no, it isn’t true!’

Miss Silver laid down her knitting and took the hand.

‘Yes, my dear, it is true. You must be brave.’

Two slow, weak tears rolled down Miss Maggie’s cheeks. Her thoughts
moved slowly too. Roger was dead. She must be a very bad, unloving
sister, because it didn’t mean very much when she said it. She didn’t
seem to be able to feel anything. She said that aloud.

‘I don’t seem to be able to feel anything.’

‘That is because it has been a shock.’ Miss Silver’s hand was warm and
steady. Maggie Repton clung to it.

‘I was speaking to him just before the people arrived. He said it was
the end. You don’t think he meant—you don’t think——’

Miss Silver looked at her gravely.

‘You will have to tell the police just what was said.’

‘I ought not to have left him,’ said Miss Maggie. ‘But I never
thought—indeed I never thought——’

‘What did you think he meant, my dear?’

‘He was talking about Scilla. They had had a terrible quarrel. He said
she had been having an affair with Gilbert Earle. Such a dreadful,
wicked thing—because Gilbert was going to marry Valentine, you know,
and it has all been broken off. Roger talked about a divorce, a thing I
never thought we should have in our family, but he said he couldn’t go
on. It is all so _dreadful_. It doesn’t seem as if it could possibly
have happened.’

It had become a relief to talk, to pour it all out. After a little Miss
Silver drew her hand away and began to knit again. When she rose from
her chair, Miss Maggie said with a sob, ‘You’re not going?’

‘Not if you wish me to stay.’

‘Oh, if you could——’ The weak voice faltered and broke. ‘Valentine is
a dear child, but she is young, and—and Scilla’—she jerked herself up
in the bed—‘She is an unfaithful wife—Roger was sending her away.
There ought to be someone here with Valentine, and Mettie—it wouldn’t
do for Mettie to come. Scilla hit her, didn’t she? What a dreadful
thing! Poor Mettie couldn’t come here after that! Scilla hit her, and
then I don’t seem to remember what happened.’

‘You fainted, my dear.’

‘Oh dear—I oughtn’t to have done that—it must have given so much
trouble.’ Then, on a faint and trembling note, ‘Did they—did
anyone—send for the police? You said—I thought you said——’

‘Yes, my dear, they are here. I am sure you will find them all that is
kind and considerate.’

The door was opened a little way. Valentine Grey first looked round it,
and then came in. Seeing that Miss Maggie was awake, she bent down to
kiss her. Miss Silver, withdrawing to the window, was aware of a murmur
of words.

After a little Valentine came to her. Her starry look was gone, and she
was white and distressed, but quite sensible and controlled. She said
very low, ‘She is better?’

‘She will do very well now.’

‘The Chief Constable is here. He said to ask you whether she is fit to
see him. He said he wouldn’t press it if you thought not.’

Miss Silver turned back to the bed.

‘Let us ask her. It may be better for her to get it off her mind.’

Miss Maggie had drawn herself up against the pillows. She discovered to
her surprise that she was in her nightgown, with the pretty blue
bed-jacket which Valentine had given her for her birthday.

‘Did you say Mr March was here? Does he want to see me? I don’t know—I
don’t feel that I can get up and come down——’

Valentine bent over her.

‘No, darling, of course not. He would come up here.’

She murmured, ‘How good of him. I am sure he is very kind to come like
this. A man is such a help. And if you think he wouldn’t mind—Only, my
dear, am I quite tidy?’

The customary pins had been removed from the wispy hair which they so
often failed to control. It lay now neat and flat on either side of the
narrow brow. With a lace scarf thrown over it, nothing could have been
more decorous. Miss Silver was most reassuring on this point.

‘And you will stay?’ said Miss Maggie, beginning to flutter. ‘I do know
Mr March—he is always so nice. But you won’t leave me, will you? Renie
Wayne was telling me you know him quite well. She told me you went over
to tea there on Friday. Mrs March is so very good-looking, is she
not—and they have two lovely children.’ Her eyes filled with tears.
‘You know, when things go wrong, as they have with us, it is a help to
think about the people who are really happy.’

Randal March came into the room and took the chair which had been set
for him. Nothing could have been kinder than his voice and manner as he
told her how sorry he was to disturb her, and how much he regretted the
reason.

‘But if you do not mind answering a few questions. Time may be of
importance, and Miss Silver will see that I don’t tire you. We are old
friends, you know.’

Miss Maggie showed a definite interest.

‘Oh, yes, Renie Wayne told me. Miss Silver has been so kind—so very
kind.’

He said warmly, ‘She is the kindest person I know.’ And then, ‘Now, Miss
Repton, will you tell me when was the last time you saw your brother—I
mean the last time before you came into the study and found him there
with Miss Eccles and Miss Silver and Mrs Repton?’

Miss Maggie gazed at him.

‘Nora Mallett was there too. She is a cousin, you know, and so is Mettie
Eccles.’

‘Yes. Now when did you last see Colonel Repton before that—and where?’

She said in a distressed voice, ‘It was in the study, just before all
the people came. We had the Work Party here—I suppose they told you.
And Roger was dreadfully angry. Oh, not about the Party—it wasn’t that
at all. It was—Oh, do I have to say?’

Miss Silver had drawn up a chair at the other side of the bed. She said
gently but firmly, ‘I am afraid so, my dear. Mr March will have heard
already that there was trouble between your brother and his wife.’

‘Yes, Miss Maggie, you had better tell me. Was that what he was angry
about?’

‘Oh, yes. He said he had come to the end.’

Randal March looked at Miss Silver, who very slightly shook her head.
She said, ‘I think Mr March will want to know just how that was said. He
had told you that his wife was going away for good, had he not, and the
word divorce had been mentioned?’

Miss Maggie caught her breath.

‘Oh, yes, it had. He thought she had been—had been—unfaithful.’

‘With Gilbert Earle?’

‘Yes—yes——’

‘He really said she was leaving him, and he spoke of a divorce?’

‘Oh, yes—poor Roger.’

‘Then how did he say that bit about having come to the end? Will you see
if you can give me his exact words?’

‘Oh, I don’t know—it seems so dreadful to repeat them.’

March looked across at Miss Silver.

‘I think she should understand what is involved. You will explain it
better than I can.’

She took her cue mildly, but with authority.

‘Dear Miss Repton, I know it is distressing for you, but a good deal
depends on just how these things are said. If the words “I have come to
the end” are taken by themselves, they would seem to point to suicide.’

Miss Maggie’s ‘Oh, no——’ was only half articulate.

Miss Silver went on.

‘If you do not think he meant that, you must try to remember what else
was said at that time. A man who intends to commit suicide would not be
thinking of divorce. You are sure that he did mention divorce?’

A little faint colour had come into Miss Repton’s face. She said in
quite a strong voice, ‘Oh, yes, I am quite sure he did, because it
shocked me dreadfully. We have never had such a thing in our family. And
Roger would never have taken his own life—he had a great deal too much
principle.’

March said, ‘Then just how did he say those words about having come to
the end?’

Maggie Repton put up her hand to her throat.

‘He said Scilla was going away and not coming back. He said, “She’s been
having an affair with Gilbert Earle—if that’s the worst of it.” And
then he said, “I’ve come to the end. She must go.” And then he went out
of the room and banged the door.’

Randal March looked across at Miss Silver and nodded.

‘There you have it. Three words, and they make all the difference. Had
come to the end of his patience with his wife. The “She must go” makes
that perfectly clear—if that is how it went. You’re quite sure about
it, Miss Maggie?’

Oh yes, she was quite sure. Now that it was said it had relieved her
very much. She repeated it all again quite slowly, and when he had
written it down she signed her name.




                              TWENTY-FIVE


Miss Silver went downstairs with the Chief Constable. As soon as they
had come out upon the landing he said, ‘I want to see that girl Florrie.
Crisp has taken a statement from her. I want to go over it with her, and
I should very much like you to be there. In the case of a young girl I
think it is always advisable that another woman should be present. Do
you think she would be likely to object?’

Miss Silver made a slight movement of the head.

‘I have found her all that is pleasant and helpful. Perhaps you would
like me to let her know that you wish to see her. My presence would then
be brought about in quite a natural manner.’

He went into the study, and after telling Valentine that Maggie Repton
was alone, and that she considered that some light nourishment would now
be beneficial, Miss Silver acquainted her with the Chief Constable’s
desire to interview Florrie Stokes. The bell was rung. Florrie appeared
to answer it, and far from showing any objection to Miss Silver’s
presence, evinced a disposition to cling to her. She had been crying and
was obviously in a frightened and emotional state, which made March
congratulate himself on Miss Silver’s presence. The Inspector, who had
encountered her before, responded to her greetings in the briefest and
most formal manner.

Colonel Repton’s body had been removed. The room had been aired, but the
heavy smell of smoke remained. The broken glass, the decanter, the cup
and saucer and plate conveyed to the dead man had been taken away. There
was a damp patch on the already much worn and stained green leather of
the writing-table. When it dried there would be nothing to show that it
had given mute evidence of a violent death. Where Roger Repton had
sprawled the Chief Constable now sat with Florrie’s statement in his
hand, whilst Crisp on his left kept pencil and notebook ready.

Florrie sat on the couch beside Miss Silver. She was upset, but she was
excited too. It was an awful thing to have happened, but it would be
something to talk about for the rest of her life. The Chief Constable
was ever so good looking, and so was Mrs March. Miss Silver was ever so
kind. She was glad she hadn’t got to talk to that Inspector Crisp again.
Jumped down your throat something awful, for all the world like one of
Joe Blagdon’s terrier dogs when it was after a rat. She didn’t like
rats, but she didn’t like to see anything killed.

March took her through her statement, which began with her coming into
the hall on the Saturday and hearing Colonel and Mrs Repton quarrelling
on the other side of the study door. The quarrel was about Mr Gilbert
Earle. She had told the story so often that it was like something she
had got by heart, and she could repeat it and scarcely vary it by a
word. The Colonel had said that Mrs Repton had been carrying on with Mr
Gilbert—he had had one of those letters about her. They had been
meeting at her friend Mrs Foster’s flat, and he would be able to get
evidence about it and divorce her.

March said, ‘You heard him mention the word divorce?’

‘Oh, yes, I did.’

‘You are quite sure about that?’

‘Oh, yes, sir.’

He went on, ‘Now, about these anonymous letters—you say Colonel Repton
spoke of them?’

‘Yes, sir.’

‘He said he had had one?’

‘Yes, sir—and so he did, for I took it up to him myself.’

Inspector Crisp lifted his head with a jerk. March said, ‘You took it up
to him?’

‘Oh, yes, sir. There was one for him and one for Miss Valentine.’

‘And how did you know what kind of letters they were?’

Florrie was more at her ease every moment. If there was a subject that
had been thoroughly discussed in Tilling Green, it was the subject of
the anonymous letters—the cheap white paper on which they were written,
the flimsy envelopes which matched it, the large awkward writing. Sam
Boxer, who was the postman, had given far too particular a description
of these points for her to be in any doubt about them, and she had
actually seen the one which Mrs Pratt had had, because she had been
there when Mrs P. came in and showed it to Mum and Dad—a horrid
spiteful letter about her Joe having been had up in court over breaking
a shop window. And he wasn’t a bad boy really, only a bit wild. But the
letter said everyone hoped he would go to prison and he was bound to
come to a bad end anyhow. And Mrs Pratt had taken on something dreadful.

Florrie explained all this with artless confidence.

March turned to Crisp.

‘Did the police know about this letter?’

Crisp really did resemble the terrier of Florrie’s fancy. At the moment
he was the terrier whose rat has been killed by another dog. He was at
his most abrupt as he said, ‘No, sir.’

March had a moment of exasperation. How could you help people if they
wouldn’t help themselves? They would talk endlessly to each other, but
when it came to reporting anything to the police a tomb-like silence
engulfed them. Sam Boxer having already stated that the Colonel, Miss
Valentine, and the Vicar had each received a letter answering to the
description of the poison-pen letters, he himself having delivered them
with the first post on Thursday morning, March decided that Florrie’s
evidence could be considered to establish the fact that the letter
addressed to Roger had certainly reached him, though he had not seen fit
to admit that it had. Since it appeared to have dealt with the subject
of his wife’s unfaithfulness, this was not surprising.

Florrie maintained that the Colonel had not only talked about the
letter, but that he and Mrs Repton had quarrelled very bitterly about
it, and that in the course of this quarrel the Colonel had said that he
knew who had written the letters. And had gone on to say that perhaps it
was Mrs Repton herself.

‘You are sure he said that?’

She repeated the words in her statement.

‘Mrs Repton said it was all lies, and the Colonel said it was a filthy
letter about a filthy thing, and he knew who wrote it. And Mrs Repton
said, who was it then? And the Colonel said wouldn’t she like to know,
and perhaps she had done it herself, because that would be one way of
breaking off Miss Valentine’s marriage, wouldn’t it, and one way of
getting out of her own. And what did she and her friends care about
divorce, he said. Only she had better make sure that Mr Gilbert would
marry her before she walked out.’

She might almost have had the statement in front of her as she tripped
through the quarrel which had taken place in this very room. Both March
and Miss Silver received a clear impression of how it had
gone—suspicion turned suddenly to certainty and blazing up into an
anger which defied control, followed by what the Chief Constable, but
not perhaps Miss Maud Silver, would have described as a slanging match.
And then a certain cooling down, so that what had begun with a demand
that Scilla Repton should get out and leave his house then and there
seemed to have concluded with a realization of the scandal which such a
course must provoke, and a desire to keep on the right side of public
opinion.

As March said later on when they were alone, ‘He just blazed off at her,
and then, I fancy, he realized what he would be letting himself in for
if he turned her out neck and crop. I gather that he was supposed to be
out, but he had forgotten a letter he wanted to post. He came back for
it, and found her having a pretty compromising conversation with Earle.
Not unnaturally, he went in off the deep end, and then had to get back
to a more dignified position. But from what Miss Maggie says, after two
days to think it over he was still all set to divorce her, and was only
waiting for Connie Brooke’s funeral to be over to insist on her leaving
the house.’

Miss Silver agreed.

‘Do you suppose that he was serious when he suggested that Mrs Repton
might herself have written the letter which accused her?’

‘It is difficult to believe that he was. He was furious with her, and I
should say at a guess that he wouldn’t be too particular about what
weapon he was using. They are talking about the letter he had received,
or rather shouting at each other about it, and he snatches at something
that he thinks will frighten her.’

‘You think, then, that he did not really know who had written the
letters?’

He lifted a hand and let it fall again.

‘He said that he knew. Florrie is quite definite about that, and she
strikes me as a truthful witness.’

‘Truthful and accurate.’

He nodded.

‘So he said that he knew. The event rather bears that out, doesn’t it?
Connie Brooke said she knew who had written the letters, and she is
dead. Roger Repton said the same thing, and he has gone the same way. It
rather looks as if somebody had believed what they said.’

But all this was afterwards. At the time, there was Florrie, rather
pleased with herself, and thinking what a story she would have to tell
them at home. She would have to tell it at the inquest too—a daunting
but at the same time an uplifting thought.

Miss Silver’s voice broke in upon it. She was addressing the Chief
Constable.

‘I wonder whether you will object to my asking Florrie a question.’

Inspector Crisp had his quick frown for that. He had been on a case with
Miss Silver before, and he considered that she took liberties, and had
been allowed to take them. He did not doubt that she would be allowed to
take this one. And sure enough there was the Chief Constable giving way
to her.

‘Oh, certainly, Miss Silver. What is it?’

She said with formal politeness, ‘Thank you very much, Mr March. When we
were having tea in the dining-room I was sitting near the door with Miss
Repton, who had been feeling faint, when Miss Eccles came by with the
cup and plate which were afterwards found on the desk in the study. She
said that Florrie had told her Colonel Repton was there, and she was
taking him a cup of tea. I thought I would like to ask Florrie how she
knew that Colonel Repton was in the study—whether she had actually seen
him there, and when, and whether he was alone at the time.’

March said, ‘Well, Florrie?’

Her colour came up.

‘There wasn’t anything wrong about my telling Miss Eccles?’

He gave her his pleasant smile.

‘Oh, no, nothing like that. You are being a great help, you know.’

Thus encouraged, she relaxed again.

‘Well, he’d been there ever since lunch. Miss Maggie, she was there with
him just before the Work Party ladies came. She came out when I went
through to answer the door. What with them coming in by twos and threes,
I was backwards and forwards to the door for the best part of half an
hour. One time I went past the study there was Colonel Repton talking,
and another man.’

‘Another man!’

Florrie nodded.

‘I hadn’t let him in, and I was ever so puzzled until I thought, “Well,
it’ll only be Mr Barton, and he must have gone round the house and
knocked on the window for the Colonel to let him in.” The study door was
on the jar the way Miss Maggie would have left it. She always gives the
handle a little turn so that it springs open again. So I went up close,
and sure enough it was him.’

‘Did you say Mr Barton?’

‘Oh, yes—with the rent, sir. And I thought he couldn’t have known about
the Work Party, or wild horses wouldn’t have dragged him, the way he is
about ladies.’

‘Mr Barton was in the habit of coming up here and paying his rent?’

‘Oh, yes, sir—once a month he’d come. And some funny sort of a rent
too. He’d come round mostly after dark, and sometimes he’d ring the
bell, and sometimes he’d just go round to the study window.’

‘You said something about the rent being a funny one. What do you mean
by that?’

Florrie let off a faint giggle.

‘Well, sir, it was what the Colonel was saying when I came up to the
door. He said, “Come to pay your peppercorn rent, James?” and something
about always being pleased to see him. And then he said, “Break through
your rule for once and have a drink.” And Mr Barton said, “If you don’t
know by now that it’s a waste of time to ask me, you won’t ever. It’s
wicked stuff,” he said, “and you’d be better without it yourself.” ’

March’s eyebrows rose.

‘Oh, they were on those sort of terms, were they?’

Florrie looked demure.

‘Yes, sir—it was all very friendly when Mr Barton came.’

‘And it was all very friendly this afternoon?’

‘So far as I know, sir, I just heard what I said.’

‘You’re sure about it being Mr Barton?’

‘Oh, yes, sir.’

‘How can you be sure?’

‘Because of what the Colonel said, and Mr Barton’s voice. He’s got ever
such a deep voice, and sort of gaspy. My Dad says he was gassed in the
war—the first war, that was, not the one my Dad was in.’

‘Then as far as you know, Mr Barton was the last person who saw Colonel
Repton before Miss Eccles took him his tea?’

‘Oh, no, sir.’

‘Well, who else was there?’

Florrie had run on easily enough, but now she wasn’t easy any more. She
wouldn’t have let anyone say she was frightened—there wasn’t anything
to be frightened about. It was just that the Colonel being dead and the
police in the house, it didn’t seem right to say what she had heard, but
of course she would have to say it. She opened her mouth and shut it
again. March said, ‘Come—who was it?’

She was astonished to hear how small her own voice sounded.

‘It was only Mrs Repton.’

‘I see. And you were passing the study door?’

‘Yes, sir.’

‘Perhaps you heard what was being said.’

‘Well, sir——’

It all came back to her with a rush and she couldn’t go on—the door
flying open like it had, and Mrs Repton turning on the threshold. It had
shaken her at the time, and it shook her now, the way Mrs Repton had
looked and the thing she said. Florrie had been brought up to go to
church and Sunday school. She thanked God fervently that Mrs Repton
hadn’t seen her.

Miss Silver laid a hand upon the arm that had begun to shake.

‘There is nothing to be afraid of, Florrie.’

Florrie blinked.

‘Oh, miss, you didn’t see her.’

March said, ‘You saw Mrs Repton?’

She gulped and nodded.

‘Just tell us what happened.’

The words came tumbling out. It did her good to get rid of them.

‘I was coming through to the dining-room. They were talking ever so
loud—I could hear their voices, and they sounded ever so angry. And
then the door opened sudden and Mrs Repton came out. I didn’t want her
to see me, so I stood against the wall, and she turned right round and
looked back into the room. Oh, sir, it was the dreadfullest look you
ever saw—and she said to the poor Colonel—oh sir, she said, “You’d be
a lot more good to me dead than alive,” she said, and she come away and
banged the door.’




                               TWENTY-SIX


Florrie had gone away, shaken but resilient. When the door had shut
behind her Randal March said, ‘That being that, we had better see Mrs
Repton. In the circumstances, I didn’t think it would be tactful to send
a message by Florrie. Perhaps, Crisp, you wouldn’t mind——’

When the Inspector had gone out March said, ‘Well, what do you make of
it?’

Miss Silver gave the faint cough with which she was wont to emphasize a
point.

‘It is, I think, too soon to draw any conclusion. We know that there was
anger between them, and people do not always mean what they say.’ He was
silent. After a moment she said, ‘I do not think Mrs Repton will wish me
to remain, in which case——’

‘You will have to go? Yes, I am afraid so. But I would much rather you
stayed.’

Scilla Repton came into the room with Crisp behind her. She was still
wearing the tartan skirt and emerald jumper, but she had taken time to
put on fresh make-up, and her hair shone under the ceiling light. It had
been in her mind to put on a black dress and play the disconsolate
widow, but something in her rebelled. And what was the good of it anyway
when there wasn’t anyone in the house that didn’t know that she and
Roger were all washed up? He had talked to his sister—he had told her
so—and no doubt she would make the most of it to the police, so why not
be honest and have done with it? There would be another of those awful
inquests, and she supposed she would have to stay for the funeral, but
once all that was over Tilling Green wouldn’t see her again in a hurry.
So what did it matter what any of these people thought or said about
her? She didn’t give a damn.

Observing Miss Silver, she raised her carefully shaped eyebrows and said
without anything in her voice to soften the words, ‘What is she doing
here?’

March said, ‘Miss Repton and Florrie Stokes preferred to have another
woman present, and Miss Silver was kind enough——’

She interrupted him with a short hard laugh.

‘A chaperone! My dear man, how prehistoric! I should have thought Maggie
was past wanting one now anyhow, but of course you never can tell, can
you?’

‘If you object to Miss Silver’s presence——’

She drew a chair to the other side of the writing-table, sat down, and
proceeded to light a cigarette.

‘Oh, no, I don’t object. Why should I? If Maggie wants a chaperone, I’m
sure I do.’

She flicked out the match and dropped it among the pens and pencils
which Roger Repton would not use again. She drew on the cigarette and
the tip brightened. She had quite deliberately turned her back upon Miss
Silver, who now as deliberately changed her own position, moving from
one corner of the leather-covered couch to the other, an adjustment
which gave her a very good view of Mrs Repton as she sat, her legs
crossed, the mesh of the stockings so fine that it hardly seemed to be
there at all, the red shoes a little too ornate, a good deal too high in
the heel.

If Miss Silver’s own garments were quite incredibly out of date, it was
because she liked them that way and had discovered that an old-fashioned
and governessy appearance was a decided asset in the profession which
she had adopted. To be considered negligible may be the means of
acquiring information which only becomes available when people are off
their guard. She was fully aware that she was being treated as
negligible now. She thought that Scilla Repton was putting on an act,
and she wondered why she had chosen just this pose of callous
indifference. She would not have expected good taste, but what was
behind these bright colours, this careful indifference? A sudden death
in a household must shock even its most indifferent member, and this was
Roger Repton’s wife.

Randal March was speaking.

‘I believe you had a very serious quarrel with your husband on Saturday,
Mrs Repton?’

She withdrew her cigarette and blew out a little cloud of smoke.

‘Who says so?’

He did not answer this.

‘In the course of this quarrel the question of the anonymous letters
came up.’

‘What anonymous letters?’

‘Oh, I think you have heard of them. One of them was in evidence at the
inquest on Doris Pell. Colonel Repton had interrupted a telephone
conversation between you and Mr Gilbert Earle. During what followed he
spoke of having received one of these letters, accusing you of carrying
on an affair with Mr Earle. A very serious quarrel developed, in the
course of which divorce was mentioned and he said that you must leave
his house immediately. The actual words were that you must get out.
Later this was to some extent modified. He had begun to think about the
scandal, and said that it would be better if you stayed here till after
Miss Brooke’s funeral.’

She said with an accentuation of her usual drawl, ‘You were listening at
the door?’

‘Somebody was,’ said March dryly. ‘Voices raised in a violent quarrel do
attract attention, and for part of the time at any rate I understand
that the door was open.’

She lifted a shoulder in the slightest of shrugs.

‘Oh, well, people do have quarrels, you know. Roger and I had lots, but
we always made them up again.’

‘Do you wish to imply that this was not the first time he had accused
you of infidelity?’

‘I don’t mean to imply anything of the sort, and you know it!’

‘Then do you mean to imply that this particular quarrel was no more
serious than others that had taken place, and that it was likely to have
been made up?’

She said easily, ‘He wouldn’t have turned me out, you know.’

‘Mrs Repton, Miss Maggie Repton has stated that she had a conversation
with her brother this afternoon just before three o’clock in which he
told her that he had come to the end, and that you must go. Now I think
you saw him after that.’

‘Who says so?’

‘You were seen coming out of the study.’

She drew on the cigarette and let the smoke go up between them.

‘All right—so what?’

‘The person who saw you states that both you and Colonel Repton were
talking very loudly. She received the impression that you were
quarrelling. Then the door opened and you were seen coming out, but you
turned back again and spoke. And she heard what you said.’

A little ash dropped on the front of the emerald jumper. Scilla Repton
brushed it off with a careless flick.

‘Really, Mr March?’

‘She states that she heard you say, “You’d be a lot more good to me dead
than alive,” and after that you came away.’

‘Quite a good curtain,’ said Scilla Repton.

March said gravely, ‘And within an hour he was dead.’

‘It didn’t mean anything. It was the sort of thing one says.’

‘Not, I think, with a reconciliation in sight.’

She leaned over to stub out the cigarette where she had left the match
in Roger Repton’s pen-tray.

The action set off a curious spark of anger in him. She had quarrelled
with the husband who had found her out, she had wished him dead to his
face, she had heard another woman accuse her over his dead body, and
here, on the very spot where these things had happened, she could lean
over and stub out her cigarette! It was a small thing, but it got him.
He said sharply, ‘You wished him dead, and he was dead within the hour.
You have been accused of having brought that death about.’

She actually laughed.

‘You’ve been listening to Mettie Eccles. My dear man, don’t be silly!
She was head over ears in love with Roger—always has been, I can’t
think why. And she has always been just as jealous of me as anyone could
be, so naturally if there was anything wrong it would be my fault. I
should think even a policeman could see that.’

He said abruptly, ‘There was cyanide in the gardener’s shed, wasn’t
there?’

‘Cya—what?’

‘Cyanide. I suppose you’ve heard of it?’

‘No. What is it?’

‘I haven’t heard the surgeon’s report yet, but it could have been the
poison which caused Colonel Repton’s death.’

She stared at him.

‘And what would it be doing in the gardener’s shed?’

‘It is used to destroy wasps’ nests.’

She gave quite a natural shudder.

‘I can’t sit in the room with a wasp! That’s the worst of the
country—all these insects! But if this cya stuff was used for them, how
did it get into the house—unless—Oh, do you mean that Roger took it on
purpose?’

Randal March said very gravely indeed, ‘No, Mrs Repton, I didn’t mean
that.’




                              TWENTY-SEVEN


About half an hour later March stopped his car on the other side of the
Green, lifted the latch of a gate, and made his way with the help of a
torch to the sideways-looking door of Gale’s Cottage. His knocking upon
it brought a somewhat delayed and reluctant answer. There was no bell
and no knocker. He was obliged to switch off his torch and use that, and
he was beginning to wonder whether Mr James Barton could be out, when
there was the sound of a slow footstep and the door was opened a bare
two inches, and on the chain at that, since an unmistakable rattle came
through the gap. A deep breathy voice said, ‘Who’s there?’

‘My name is March. I am the Chief Constable of the country, and I would
like to have a word with you.’

The voice from within said, ‘Why?’

‘Because you were one of the last people to see Colonel Repton.’

There was a gasp, the rattle of the chain which held the door, and the
sound of the door creaking back upon its hinges. There was no light in
the narrow passage, but a door on the right stood half open and enough
light came from it to throw up the figure of a tall man standing back
about a yard from the threshold.

‘What’s this about Colonel Repton?’

‘I believe you were one of the last people to see him.’

Barton repeated the words almost in a whisper.

‘To see him?’

March said, ‘Mr Barton, if Colonel Repton was a friend of yours, I’m
afraid you must be prepared for a shock, because he is dead.’

James Barton said, ‘Oh, my God!’ And then, ‘But he can’t be—I was
talking to him—Oh, come in!’

The room with the half-open door was the kitchen, and it was warm and
comfortable, with an oil-lamp on the dresser, a bright fire, and thick
red curtains at the window. There was a table covered with a crimson
cloth, an old leather-covered armchair, and a strip of carpet in front
of the fireplace upon which lay seven large tabby cats.

In the light Mr Barton was seen to be a thin and rather stooping person
with a good deal of grizzled hair and a straggling beard, but even the
beard and the bushy eyebrows did not hide the terrible scar which ran
right across his face. Before March had taken in these particulars he
was saying, ‘Colonel Repton—what has happened? I was up there—he
wasn’t ill.’

‘Yes, that is why I have come to see you. He wasn’t ill, and he is dead.
I believe that he was murdered.’

‘Murdered——’

There were a couple of plain wooden chairs in the room. Barton sank down
on one of the them and leaned forward over the table, folding his arms
and dropping his head upon them. His breathing quickened into sobs.
After a minute or two he straightened himself.

‘He was a very good friend to me. It’s knocked me over. Will you tell me
what happened?’

‘He was poisoned—we believe, with cyanide.’

‘That’s the stuff they use for wasps?’

‘Yes.’

‘Who would do such a thing?’

March had taken the other chair. He said, ‘I hope you can help us to
find out.’

Barton raised a hand and let it fall again.

‘Isn’t that what the police always say when they’re talking about the
chap they’ve got it in for?’

‘If you mean have we any special reason to suspect you at present, the
answer is no. But since you were one of the last people to see Colonel
Repton alive—By the way, just when did you leave him?’

‘It would be four o’clock, or a little later. I don’t carry a watch.’

‘Do you mind telling me why you went to see him, and what passed between
you?’

‘I went to pay my rent.’

‘I see. And just what do you pay for this cottage?’

Barton was leaning on an elbow, staring down at the red tablecloth. He
jerked his head up at that and said roughly, ‘What’s that got to do with
the police?’

‘Is there any reason why you should mind answering the question?’

‘Oh, no—no—I just wondered why you should ask it, that’s all. If you
must know, it was what is called a peppercorn rent.’

‘You mean you didn’t pay him anything at all?’

‘No, I don’t. I mean I paid him a peppercorn—one a month—and we’d sit
talking for a bit. He was about the only one I ever did talk to, and I
suppose you’ll try and make out I did him in.’

‘Will you tell me what you talked about this afternoon?’

Barton went back to staring down upon the red tablecloth.

‘Most times I’d go up after dark, but I didn’t today.’

‘Why was that?’

‘I don’t know. I’d a fancy to go when I did, that’s all. I’d been
thinking of things, and I’d got to the point where they didn’t bear
thinking about, so it came to me I’d go up and see the Colonel.’

March’s memory produced a date. He wouldn’t have sworn to it in court,
but short of that he was as certain of it as makes no difference. This
was the thirteenth of October, and on the thirteenth of October some
thirty years ago ... He said, ‘Well, you went up to see Colonel Repton.
What did you talk about?’

‘Him.’ Barton stared at the cloth. ‘I went round to the study window and
knocked on it because they’d got company—a lot of women visiting Miss
Repton for a sewing-party. Miss Wayne from next door, she was there, and
the one that’s staying with her. I’d forgotten about it, but I wasn’t
going to let it put me off. I knew he wouldn’t be having any truck with
it anyway. So I went round by the far end of the Green and got in over
the wall and round to the study window. I’d done it before.’

‘And when you got there Colonel Repton asked you if you’d come to pay
your peppercorn rent and offered you a drink.’

He got a startled sideways look.

‘If you know all the answers you can find them for yourself.’

March was made to feel that he had been clumsy. He hastened to make
amends.

‘Mr Barton, please do not be offended. It would be a natural way for
Colonel Barton to receive you, wouldn’t it? And I am really anxious to
know about the drink, because, you see, the cyanide—we are practically
sure that it was cyanide—was in a small decanter of whisky on his
writing-table, and I would like to know whether you saw the decanter
there.’

He was staring at March now.

‘Oh yes, I saw it. And he offered me a drink out of it all right, but
that was just a joke between us—he knew I wouldn’t take it. It’s
devil’s stuff, and I don’t use it. He knew that well enough. It’s always
the same when I go up—he says, “Have a drink,” and I say, “No,” the
same as he knows I’m going to.’

‘Well, that being over, you say you talked about him.’

‘Yes—about him and about women—he knows what I think of them. He
talked about his wife.’

‘What did he say about her?’

‘Said she’d done the dirty on him and he was going to divorce her. I
never spoke to her in my life—I don’t have any truck with women—but I
could have told him she was that sort right from the word go. I could
have told him, but it wouldn’t have been any good. That’s the sort of
thing you have to find out for yourself. Cats and dogs, they go after
their nature, and you know what that nature is—it’s the way they’re
made. And women are just the same, but they’re not honest about it the
way an animal is. They lie, and creep, and go round corners, pretending
to be holy angels—angels of light, and not the drabs and sluts they
are.’

March broke in.

‘Are you perfectly sure that Colonel Repton spoke of divorcing his
wife?’

‘Of course I’m sure. Why should I make it up? He said he was all through
with her and she’d be clearing out just as soon as Connie Brooke’s
funeral was over. He said he’d been telling his sister, and once the
funeral was over everyone would know.’

‘That was a very confidential way for him to talk.’

The hand that was resting on Barton’s knee moved and clenched. He said
in his deep hoarse voice, ‘Sometimes it eases a man to talk. I’ve had
troubles myself.’

March waited for a moment before he spoke again. Then he said, ‘Well, he
talked to you in this confidential way. Did he say anything—anything at
all to suggest that he had the thought of suicide in his mind?’

He got a quick angry look.

‘No, he didn’t!’

‘Because that would be a possible alternative to murder. A man who had,
or thought he had, discovered that his wife was unfaithful might have
taken his own life.’

Mr Barton brought his fist down upon the table.

‘Not if it was Colonel Repton, he wouldn’t! And I’ll take my Bible oath
he wasn’t thinking of any such thing. He talked about getting rid of
her—said it oughtn’t to take so long to get a case through the courts
now. Well, if he was planning about that, he wasn’t thinking of killing
himself, was he?’

‘Not then.’

‘When did it happen?’

‘He was seen alive at half-past four, and found dead at his desk just
after five o’clock.’

‘That means the stuff was there in the decanter when I was with him.
He’d never have offered me a drink the way he did if he knew there was
poison in it.’

‘He might have if he was sure you wouldn’t take it.’

The fist came down on the table again.

‘Not on your life! It’s not what any man would do—not to a friend!
Cyanide? That’s the stuff that kills you dead in a minute. There’s
something in a man that would turn at offering it to a friend.’

‘He knew you wouldn’t take it—you said so yourself.’

Barton shook his head.

‘He’d not have done it. Just thinking of it would have turned him. And
he wasn’t thinking about suicide—I’ll swear he wasn’t.’




                              TWENTY-EIGHT


Miss Silver walked across the Green to fetch the few things that she
would need for the night. Miss Wayne displayed some incredulity.

‘You are going to stay at the Manor?’

‘Miss Repton would like me to do so. It has been a great shock to her.’

Miss Renie’s handkerchief dabbed sketchily at eyes and nose.

‘Oh, yes _indeed_—and to us all. But surely a stranger—one would have
thought Lady Mallett, or at any rate a _friend_——’

‘Lady Mallett was herself a good deal distressed. Sometimes it is easier
to be with a stranger whose personal feelings are not involved.’

Miss Renie sniffed and dabbed.

‘I should have thought that Mettie Eccles would have stayed.’

Miss Silver gave a slight reproving cough.

‘I’m afraid the shock has been worse for her than for anyone, since it
was she who made the dreadful discovery.’

‘I offered to wait and go home with her,’ said Miss Renie. ‘The police
wished to question her, and she was obliged to stay. I was feeling the
shock a good deal myself, but I was perfectly willing to remain there
with her. And all she said was, “For God’s sake let me alone!” Really
quite profane! After that, of course, I couldn’t say any more, could I?’

Whilst Miss Silver was putting a few things into a case Joyce Rodney
came in. She shut the door and sat down upon the bed.

‘Oh, Miss Silver, I’m so thankful I took David away.’

Miss Silver looked up from folding a warm blue dressing-gown.

‘I think you did wisely, and I am sure he is very happy with your friend
in Ledlington.’

‘Oh, yes, he is. I’m so thankful I was there today, and not at the
Manor. It must have been dreadful.’ She hesitated, and then went on.
‘Penny Marsh came to see me this morning. She wanted to know whether I
would take Connie’s place and help her to run the school.’

‘Yes, Mrs Rodney?’

Joyce Rodney made an impatient movement.

‘I do wish you would call me Joyce! Everyone does.’

Miss Silver’s reply was kind but firm.

‘I have told you that I do not consider it advisable.’

‘Yes, I know. All the same I wish you would. When Penny spoke to me
about the school I felt as if it might be a very good plan. Of course I
couldn’t go on doing so much for Aunt Renie, but I would be able to pay
for my board, and she could have extra help—only with these dreadful
things happening——’ She broke off, looked very directly at Miss
Silver, and said, ‘About Colonel Repton—you were there when it
happened. Was it suicide? Aunt Renie says it was—but was it?’

Miss Silver laid the dressing-gown in the suitcase.

‘Neither Miss Wayne nor myself is in a position to say.’

‘Well, you know, everyone says that he and Scilla had had a frightful
quarrel, and that she was only waiting until after Connie’s funeral to
clear out. They say he was going to divorce her.’

Miss Silver said mildly, ‘That scarcely appears to be compatible with
suicide.’

‘No, it doesn’t, does it? Frankly, I shouldn’t have thought anyone would
kill himself because Scilla was walking out on him. Of course she’s
pretty, but she doesn’t do a single thing that a man like Colonel Repton
expects his wife to do—why, she doesn’t even keep house. And she’s got
an odious temper.’

Miss Silver put a sponge, a nailbrush, a toothbrush, and a tube of
toothpaste into a blue waterproof case which had been a last year’s
Christmas gift from her niece by marriage, Dorothy Silver, who was the
wife of Ethel Burkett’s brother. She said, ‘Men do not take the same
view of these things that we do. Mrs Repton has the type of looks which
is apt to render them indifferent to practical considerations.’

Joyce laughed.

‘How right you are! And I was being thoroughly catty. I dare say she is
all right against her own background, and she must have been hideously
bored down here, but I do hate to see anyone take on a job and then not
lift a finger to make a success of it. Look here, I’ll walk back across
the Green with you and carry that case.’

It was when they were alone under the night sky with the empty Green
stretching round them that Joyce said out of the middle of what had been
quite a long silence, ‘Miss Silver—about Colonel Repton—you never did
say whether you thought it was suicide. Do you know, I don’t somehow
feel as if it was. Florrie has been telling everyone that he said he was
going to divorce his wife. Well, as you say, if he was going to do that
he wouldn’t commit suicide, would he?’

To this bald but common-sense statement of a problem upon which she did
not desire to enlarge, Miss Silver thought it best to observe in a
noncommittal manner that suicide was sometimes due to a sudden impulse,
and that there was not at present enough evidence to show how Colonel
Repton had met with his death.

It was about this time that Valentine was saying to Jason Leigh, ‘He
didn’t kill himself. Oh, Jason, he didn’t—he _wouldn’t_!’ She stood in
the circle of his arms and felt safe. But outside of that charmed circle
there was a world of which the foundations had been shaken. She had
never known her father, and she could only remember her mother as
someone very vague and shadowy who lay on a sofa, and then one day
wasn’t there any more and Aunt Maggie said she had gone to heaven. But
Roger had always been there, part of the established order of things. He
was not at all exciting, but always a kind person round whom the house
revolved. It had never occurred to her to think whether she loved him or
not. Now that he was dead, it was like being in a house with one of the
walls sheared off and letting in all the winds of calamity. She pressed
against Jason and heard them blow, but they couldn’t touch her as long
as he held her close. He said, ‘I shouldn’t have thought he would
either.’

‘He didn’t. I am quite sure he didn’t. He talked to me about suicide
once, and he said it was running away. He said he didn’t believe it got
you out of anything either. It was shirking, and if you shirked you only
made things harder for yourself and everyone else.’

‘You had better tell that to the Chief Constable.’

‘I have. He didn’t say anything. Jason, what is so frightful about it is
that if he didn’t do it himself, there is only one person I can think of
who would have done it.’

‘Scilla? You’d better not go about saying that, darling.’

‘As if I would! As if I wanted to! I’ve been trying not to say it to
myself, but it keeps on coming back. There was a story I read once about
a room in a house. Someone had been murdered there, and the door
wouldn’t stay shut. It’s like that—about Scilla—in my mind. I try to
shut it away, but the door won’t stay shut.’ Her voice had gone away to
just a breath against his cheek. They were so close that he couldn’t be
sure whether he heard the words or just knew that she was saying them.
He kept his own voice down, but it sounded too loud.

‘Why should she?’

‘He was going to divorce her. He told Maggie. That is why she looked so
ghastly at the Work Party this afternoon—he had just been telling her.
There was an affair—with Gilbert—and he had found it out.’

‘Is that why you broke it off?’ The words came hard and hot before he
could stop them.

‘No—no, it wasn’t. You’ve got to be quite sure about that, because it’s
true. I didn’t know—I hadn’t any idea until that Wednesday night. When
I left you and came back to the house they were in her sitting-room. I
was coming in through the drawing-room window, and the door between the
rooms wasn’t quite shut. I heard—something—and I oughtn’t to have
listened—but I did. He was telling her it was over. He said he
was—fond of me.’

‘That was very kind of him.’

‘It was quite _horrid_,’ said Valentine with sudden vigour. ‘I came away
after that. In the morning I got one of those poison-pen letters. It
said Gilbert had been carrying on with Scilla. But you are never to
think that that was when I made up my mind to break it off, because it
wasn’t. It was quite, quite made up when I was with you in the gazebo.
You told me I couldn’t marry Gilbert, and I knew I couldn’t. I knew it
the way you know something that you don’t have to think about. It was
just there.’

They kissed.




                              TWENTY-NINE


Miss Repton was better in the morning. She was in deep grief, but the
sense of shock was lifting. She found herself able to read her Bible,
and expressed a wish to see Mr Martin, with whom she presently had a
very comforting talk. It appeared he did not adhere to the school of
thought which believed that those who passed away remained asleep in
their coffins until the Day of Judgement, a belief which had been
entertained by her parents and handed down to her by them. It had never
occurred to her to question it before, but she found the Vicar’s more
modern view very comforting indeed. She was also extremely grateful for
the continued presence of Miss Silver, both on her own account and for
the sake of Valentine. As she put it with rather touching simplicity, ‘I
do not wish to have unkind thoughts about anyone, and I had been praying
to be delivered from any harsh judgements, but I am afraid that everyone
will know by now that dear Roger was going to divorce his wife, and one
can’t help wondering—no one can help wondering whether—— And it does
seem more suitable that there should be somebody else with dear
Valentine.’

Late in the morning the Chief Constable came over. He asked to see Miss
Silver, and she came down to him in the study, where she found him
looking out of the window. He turned as she came in, informed her
briefly that the post-mortem had established the fact that death was due
to cyanide poisoning, and went on, ‘Crisp saw the gardener last night,
and he says it was used to destroy wasps’ nests near the house in July.
Everybody knew it had been used. He had pointed the nests out to Roger
Repton and told him something ought to be done about them or they would
be overrun with wasps hatching out in August, and then what was going to
happen to the fruit? Scilla Repton came along while he was talking and
wanted to know all about it, and said she was scared of wasps. Was he
sure that was something that would kill them, and what was it? In fact
considerable interest was displayed, and when he was destroying the
nests she came out and watched him. He said he had to tell her not to
touch the stuff, because it was the worst kind of poison. Casting back
to my interview with her yesterday, it seems to me that she rather
overdid her ignorance of cyanide and all its works.’

Miss Silver had seated herself in the corner of the leather-covered
couch which she had occupied at that interview. Then Scilla Repton in
her tartan skirt and emerald jersey had been sitting by the
writing-table. An excellent memory recalled the naive manner in which
Scilla had stumbled over the very word. It had been ‘Cya what?—Cya
stuff.’ As she opened her flowered knitting-bag and took out little
Josephine’s now almost completed cardigan she said gravely, ‘I do not
feel that too much attention should be paid to that. She is not a young
woman of any education. She practically never opens a book, and her
knowledge of current events is obtained from the more sensational
headlines in the papers, a brief glance at the pictures, and the
newsreel at the cinema. I think it more than possible that an unfamiliar
word like cyanide would leave her mind as casually as it had entered it.
It was, in any case, the possibility of a plague of wasps which she had
found interesting and alarming. The cyanide would only come into it as a
means of averting that threat.’

March had taken the opposite sofa corner. He said grimly, ‘Unless it
occurred to her that it could be used to remove an inconvenient husband
as well as a wasps’ nest.’ Then, with half a laugh, ‘She is everything
you don’t like, but you’ll put the case for her with scrupulous
fairness, won’t you?’

She smiled.

‘Naturally, my dear Randal.’

‘Well, now that you have discharged your conscience, suppose you tell me
what you really think.’

She knitted for a while in silence.

‘I suppose,’ she said, ‘that you can see what is on the surface as well
as I can. Her looks have been cultivated to the utmost, her mind has not
been cultivated at all. I do not know what her parentage may have been,
but I think she has had to fend for herself from an early age. Miss
Maggie tells me that no relations have ever been mentioned, no old
friends have ever been asked to stay. She has been a show girl and a
mannequin, a precarious and intermittent form of employment and a very
bad preparation for life in the country as the wife of an impoverished
landowner nearly double her age. She may well have felt that she had
made a disastrous mistake, especially if she was attracted by Mr Gilbert
Earle. I do not think she had any affection for her husband, or for his
family. Miss Maggie tells me that Colonel Repton made a settlement on
her at the time of the marriage. It amounted to about two hundred a
year. She may have felt two hundred a year and her freedom preferable to
a continuance of her life at the Manor, where she had no ties either of
affection or interest. All this is arguable, but in all of us there are
certain factors which set a barrier between what we would prefer and
what we are prepared to do in order to obtain that preference. A young
woman might wish to be free and independent, and yet be quite incapable
of murder as a means to that end.’

He nodded, and said, ‘As to the settlement, I’ve been seeing Repton’s
solicitors this morning. They are an old Ledlington firm, Morson,
Padwick, and Morson. I had an extremely interesting talk with Mr James
Morson, the head of the firm. Scilla Repton would have forfeited her
settlement if she had been divorced for adultery. Asked whether she were
aware of this fact, Mr Morson looked down his nose and said he had
personally made it his business to explain it to her at the time the
settlement was made, pointing out the words _dum casta_ and telling her
what they meant. He had been a good deal scandalized by the fact that
she had immediately burst out laughing and said in a drawling voice,
“Oh, then, if I get bored with Roger and run away with somebody else I
don’t get a bean. What a shame!” So you see she was perfectly well aware
that she would be left penniless if he divorced her. And he had not only
told her that he was going to divorce her, but he had informed his
sister and his solicitor. I gather that she had been meeting Earle in
the flat of a complaisant friend, of which evidence would probably have
been forthcoming. Now so far everything rather adds up against her, but
yesterday morning Roger Repton went to Ledlington and altered his will.’

Miss Silver knitted placidly.

‘Indeed, Randal?’

He could not believe her to have missed the implication, but he
proceeded to put it into words.

‘He altered his will and cut her right out of it. He insisted on doing
it then and there in what Mr Morson had obviously considered a very
precipitate manner. Now—point one—it might be argued that this is
evidence of an intention to commit suicide. And—point two—when he saw
his wife in the study some time within an hour of his death and Florrie
heard them quarrelling, did he, or did he not, tell her that he had
altered his will? Because if he did, and she knew he had cut her out of
it, her interest in his death would be considerably reduced, whereas if
she only thought he was going to alter it, it would be very much
enhanced.’

Miss Silver coughed.

‘There is, of course, no evidence upon either point. But suppose him to
have informed her of the change in his will. She would certainly have
been extremely angry. It must by then have been after four o’clock. The
cyanide was, in all probability, already in the stoppered decanter. If
it was added to the contents by Mrs Repton, this may have been done much
earlier in the afternoon, or during that very interview at some moment
when Colonel Repton’s attention had been diverted. His death had in
either case already been resolved upon, and the means were to hand.
Would an angry young woman who had planned her husband’s death be in any
state to weigh the alternative advantages of pursuing this plan or
changing it? If he lived to divorce her, she would lose her settlement.
If he died now, she might, or might not, be able to keep the settlement.
That, I suppose, would depend upon the line taken by the family and the
amount of evidence as to her infidelity. I think it would probably
appear to her that she would keep it, because if he were dead he
couldn’t divorce her. As to the will, had he any considerable amount to
leave?’

March said, ‘Very little. Since there is now no male heir, the estate
including the farms from which practically all his income was derived,
passes under the entail to Valentine Grey. Indeed, if it hadn’t been for
her very generous contributions, the place would have had to be sold
long ago. Scilla Repton probably knew all this.’

Miss Silver pulled upon the ball of blue wool. She said, ‘It is common
knowledge, Randal. I had not been here twenty-four hours before Miss
Wayne had told me very much what you have told me now.’

‘Then you think she did it?’

‘I think we may say that there was a good deal of motive. She was
threatened with divorce and with the loss of her settlement. She was
also threatened with the loss of her lover. I do not know to what extent
her feelings were involved, but Mr Earle is an attractive young man who
is said to have a career before him, and he is the heir to a title. Even
nowadays he could not afford to marry a woman about whom there had been
a serious scandal. As Roger Repton’s widow she would be in a much more
eligible position.’

‘Yes, that is true.’

‘So much for the motive. As to the opportunity, it would of course have
been easier for her than for anyone else to add cyanide to the contents
of the decanter. It could have been done in the morning when Colonel
Repton was out, or at any time during the afternoon when he was absent
from the study for a few minutes. This is also true about anyone else in
the house, but nobody else appears to have any motive. Apart from the
household, two other people would have had the opportunity required.’

He raised his eyebrows.

‘Two?’

‘Mr Barton and Miss Eccles.’

He shook his head.

‘Well, doesn’t the same thing apply? What motive could either of them
have had?’

Miss Silver’s needles clicked.

‘The one which we have not touched upon, the one which I believe to have
been the real motive for the deaths of both Colonel Repton and Connie
Brooke. Each was believed to have identified the author of the
poison-pen letters. In the case of Colonel Repton there may have been
contributory motives. If it was his wife who poisoned him, there
certainly were. He told her he knew who had written the letters, and he
said, “Perhaps you wrote them yourself. It would be one way out of
Valentine’s marriage and of your own.” This was at the height of a
violent quarrel, and may not have been very seriously meant. He did not
repeat it to Miss Maggie when he told her that his wife had been
unfaithful to him. In the meanwhile Florrie’s story of the quarrel had
gone all round the village, and it was being repeated everywhere that
Colonel Repton knew who had written the letters. His death followed,
just as Connie Brooke’s death followed upon the rumour that she
possessed the same knowledge. I find it difficult to dissociate the two
cases. Therefore, unless Mrs Repton was the writer of the letters, I am
disinclined to believe that it was she who poisoned her husband.’

‘According to Florrie he accused her of having written them.’

‘Not quite in that way, I think, Randal. What she put in her statement
was that Colonel Repton had received one of the anonymous letters, and
that it had accused Mrs Repton of having been unfaithful to him. She
then continued, “Mrs Repton said it was all lies, and the Colonel said
it was a filthy letter about a filthy thing, and he knew who wrote it.
And Mrs Repton said who was it then? And the Colonel said wouldn’t she
like to know, and perhaps she had done it herself, because that would be
one way of breaking off Miss Valentine’s marriage and getting out of her
own.” You see, it was more of a taunt than a direct accusation, and he
did not repeat it to his sister.’

‘I don’t know that that proves anything. His personal reaction to her
infidelity could very well have been uppermost in his mind, with the
anonymous letters a good deal in the background. And if it wasn’t Scilla
Repton who poisoned her, who was it?’

She said soberly, ‘We were talking of Mr Barton and Miss Eccles, both of
whom are to some extent linked with the deaths of Connie Brooke and
Colonel Repton. I do not say that either of them is guilty, but in each
case there was opportunity.’

‘Barton?’ His tone was one of surprise. ‘Well, he certainly saw Repton
within a very short time of his death, but he was, according to Florrie,
received on the friendliest terms, and there is no evidence of a quarrel
or of any other motive. He had every reason to feel grateful to Repton,
who had been a very good friend to him. I believe he was devoted to him.
I saw him after I left here last night, and I am sure that the news of
Repton’s death was a severe shock. And what possible connection could he
have with Connie Brooke?’

‘None, unless he was the writer of the anonymous letters. A very strong
one if he was. And there is this slight connection. As I told you
before, on the Wednesday night—that is, the night on which Connie
Brooke met her death—I had put out the light and I was opening my
bedroom window. The party at the Manor was breaking up. I saw two or
three cars go away, and I saw Mr Barton come home from one of his
nocturnal rambles. He had his cats with him, and he came from the far
end of the Green—that is, from the direction of Connie Brooke’s house.
It proved no more than that he was in the neighbourhood at a time when,
provided he had access to the house, he could have drugged her cocoa.’

Randal smiled.

‘It is scarcely evidence.’

She continued to knit.

‘I do not advance it as such. I have mentioned it because I do not wish
to keep anything back. I think, however, that with regard to Mr Barton
you have by no means told me all you know about him.’

He nodded.

‘No, I haven’t. And I am in two minds whether to tell you now. If I were
not a good deal more sure of your discretion than I am my own, I would
hold my tongue. As it is, I am going to tell you. Barton isn’t the
chap’s real name. There isn’t any need to tell you what it is, but you
will probably remember the case. I think we’ll just go on calling him
Barton. He got a commission from the ranks of the battalion in which
Repton was. A year or two later they were on foreign service in the Far
East, a gruelling sort of job. Barton got a nasty face wound which left
him badly scarred. Then he had sunstroke and was invalided home. He
found his wife living with another man, and he killed them both—pitched
the man out of the window and strangled the woman. There is no doubt
that he was not sane at the time. They sent him to the Criminal Asylum
at Broadmoor, and after some years he was released. Repton let him have
this cottage at a peppercorn rent and has befriended him in every way.
He could have no reason to destroy his benefactor.’

Miss Silver regarded him in a manner which recalled his schoolroom days.
It suggested a conviction that he could do better than this if he tried.
She said firmly, ‘Where there is a history of insanity it is possible
that there may be a recurrence. The writing of what are commonly called
poison-pen letters points to a mind not truly in balance. In the case of
a man who has had so serious a breakdown as you have described, and who
has for years been living the life of a complete recluse, is there not
at least the possibility that, deprived of all normal companionship, he
might seek this abnormal means of contact with his neighbours? It is
generally attributed to some form of frustration, and few lives can have
been more painfully frustrated than that of this unfortunate man.’

March’s mind went back with discomfort to the date which had presented
itself during his interview with James Barton. He said in a lowered
voice, ‘When I asked him why he had gone to see Repton in the afternoon
instead of waiting as he usually did till after dark, he said, “I’d been
thinking of things, and they had got to a point where they didn’t bear
thinking about, so it came to me that I’d go up and see him.” And when
he said that, it came up in my mind that it was somewhere about the
middle of October that he had come home and found his wife with the
other man. And I think it was on the thirteenth—in fact I’m pretty sure
about that. I read up the case in the file of _The Times_ when I came
here, because I had it passed on to me that the chap was living here
under the name of Barton. The date stuck, because I remember thinking it
had been an unlucky thirteenth for him.’

There was silence between them for a little before he spoke again.

‘I suppose you are right, and that he might have done it. If he had been
sitting there brooding over the old tragedy, and then came up here to
find himself taxed with the writing of those anonymous letters, I
suppose he might have gone off the deep end. Only if it was like
that—where did he get the cyanide? It’s not the sort of stuff you have
knocking about in your pockets. No, if Barton was going to do anyone in,
I should expect something more on the lines of the previous affair—a
blow, or an attempt to strangle. There is a noticeable tendency amongst
the insane to stick to a pattern of murder.’

Miss Silver inclined her head.

‘That is very true, Randal. There is also another point in Mr Barton’s
favour. As you say, if it was he who poisoned Colonel Repton, he must
have gone there provided with the means of doing so. Florrie’s story
must have reached him, and he must therefore have been aware that
Colonel Repton had said he knew who had written the letters. But how did
the story reach him? He went nowhere, and he saw no one. He did not go
to the George, and his door was locked against everyone. It is difficult
to see how he can have heard what was common gossip to everyone else in
Tilling Green, and unless he knew that he was suspected he would not
have gone up to the Manor provided with the means of poisoning Colonel
Repton. I do not wish you to think that I suspect Mr Barton of the
crime. I only feel that he cannot as a suspect be lightly dismissed from
it.’

‘Which brings us to Mettie Eccles. And what have you got to say about
her? Everyone says she was devoted to Repton.’

‘Yes, that is undoubtedly true. She was in an agony of distress after
she had found his body, and she immediately accused Mrs Repton of having
killed him. In neither case was she acting a part. But consider for a
moment. Jealousy and jealous resentment are amongst the most frequent
causes of violent crime. Miss Eccles had always cared deeply for this
distant cousin. She undoubtedly hoped to marry him. And then he comes
back suddenly with the least suitable wife in the world. There is a
complete disparity of age, of breeding, of tastes. The marriage took
place two years ago. About a year later the poison-pen letters began. As
we have agreed, this sort of thing almost invariably springs from some
painful frustration. But in this case Miss Eccles continued to be the
centre of all the village activities. She played the organ, she visited
the sick, she was active in the Village Institute. She would not seem to
have had much time for the morbid brooding which must have preceded the
production of those letters. But as to opportunity, it is she who, in
both cases, had enough of it and to spare. She could have gone all the
way home with Connie Brooke and drugged the cocoa which was waiting for
her on the stove. As I told you, I have just a faint impression that I
heard them saying good-night, but even if I could swear to it, there
would have been nothing to prevent Miss Eccles from appearing to change
her mind. It would have been quite easy to catch poor Connie up and say
that she would like to see her all the way home. It would be a perfectly
natural gesture from an older woman to a girl who had been looking
desperately ill and tired. In the case of Roger Repton, we would have to
suppose that she had heard Florrie’s story and believed that she might
be accused. Consider for a moment what a disaster that accusation would
have been. If it had been brought and proved, or if it had only been
believed, she would have been utterly and irretrievably ruined. There
would have been nothing left for her at all. Is it impossible to believe
that she would provide herself with a means of escape? The cyanide could
in the last resort have been intended for herself. But she is of a bold
and managing temperament. She has the courage to seek an interview with
Colonel Repton. The Work Party offers her an opportunity. She knows that
he is in the study. She says Florrie told her he was there, which means
that she had asked where he was. She goes in, ostensibly to take him his
tea. She stops beside Miss Repton and myself to announce that she is
doing so. Now suppose Colonel Repton took advantage of their being alone
to accuse her of having written the letters. He could have done so, and
he could have been prepared to go to extremities by making the matter
public. She had known him all her life, and she would know whether this
was likely to be his course of action, in which case she might have been
desperate enough to silence him. She could, no doubt, have found an
opportunity of adding the cyanide to the contents of the decanter.’

He was regarding her with a kind of quizzical respect.

‘Do tell me how you would distract the attention of a man whom you were
going to poison.’

Miss Silver turned her knitting and measured the sleeve against her
hand.

‘I think I should say I saw a strange dog in the garden. The cyanide
would, of course, be dissolved and contained in some small bottle which
would go easily into a handbag or a pocket.’

‘I see you have it all worked out. How fortunate for society that you do
not devote your abilities to crime!’ The gravity of her look reproved
him. He hastened to say, ‘I suppose it could have happened like that.
How long was Mettie Eccles away from the tea-room?’

‘It was quite a long time.’

‘You noticed her return?’

‘Yes.’

‘Was there any change in her appearance?’

‘Yes, Randal, there was. She was, she had been, agitated. There were
signs of tears. Her face was freshly powdered. It is, of course, quite
possible that Colonel Repton had been informing her that he intended to
divorce his wife. He had already told his sister and Mr Barton of his
intention. If Miss Eccles was not the person he had in mind as the
author of the anonymous letters, he might very easily have taken the
opportunity of confiding in so old a friend.’

He shook his head.

‘You are building houses with a pack of cards. Very ingenious houses,
I’ll give you that, but you no sooner set one up than you proceed to
knock it down again. As a plain man, I don’t mind telling you I’d give
all your ingenious suppositions for a ha’p’orth of real evidence. And it
is only in the case of Scilla Repton that there is really any evidence
at all. Plainly, she had a motive. Even if she knew that Repton had
altered his will—and she may not have known that he had already done
so—his death would save her settlement, her reputation, and any chance
she might have of marrying Gilbert Earle. She had knowledge of the
presence of cyanide in the gardener’s shed, and she had easy access to
it. She had an angry interview with him within an hour of his death, and
could have introduced the cyanide into the decanter either then or at
some previous time. The interview closed with the damning words
overheard by Florrie as Mrs Repton left the study—“You’d be a lot more
good to me dead than alive.” This constitutes a strong case.’

‘Undoubtedly. But it does not link up with the anonymous letters, or
with the death of Connie Brooke.’

He let that go.

‘To return for a moment to Mettie Eccles. Your last remark about her was
to the effect that if she were not the author of the letters and Repton
had therefore no accusation to bring against her, the agitation which
you noticed might have been due to his having told her that he intended
to divorce his wife. Don’t you think this possibility derives a good
deal of support from the fact that she immediately and directly accused
Scilla Repton of having killed him? Such an accusation might very well
have sprung from a belief that, driven by her infidelity, Colonel Repton
had taken his own life. It certainly seems to me to be the most natural
explanation.’

‘What does Miss Eccles herself say about her interview with Colonel
Repton?’

‘Nothing that amounts to anything. She just says she took him in his
tea, and that he was sitting at his table and appeared to be as usual.
She says that she didn’t stay, and that she went up to Miss Maggie’s
room to tidy herself before going back to the others. I can press her,
of course, as to whether Repton said anything about his wife. But look
here—do you seriously suspect her?’

Miss Silver went silent for a moment. Then she said, ‘Suspicions are not
evidence, as you have pointed out. But I believe that somewhere there is
the evidence which would convict the person who is responsible for at
least a double murder. It occurs to me that this evidence may lie
farther back in the case than has been supposed. I feel quite sure that
the question of the anonymous letters is fundamental. I would like,
therefore, to go back to the letters received by Doris Pell, the girl
who was found drowned in the Manor lake. She lived with an aunt, who was
formerly maid to Mrs Grey, and they did dressmaking. I suppose the aunt
was interviewed by the police?’

‘Oh, yes, Crisp saw her. There had been more than one letter, but she
was only able to produce the last one. It was the usual disgusting type
of thing, full of what seem to have been completely unfounded
suggestions of immorality.’

‘And what did Miss Pell have to say to Inspector Crisp?’

‘Oh, nothing at all. The poor woman just went on crying and saying what
a good girl Doris was, and how no one had ever had a word to say against
her or anyone in their family. They were Chapel people and very
religious, and Doris just couldn’t bear the shame of it.’

Miss Silver was casting off. As the last stitch fell from the needles,
she looked across them at the Chief Constable and said, ‘Would you have
any objection to my going to see Mrs Pell, Randal?’




                                 THIRTY


Miss Pell lived three houses beyond the post office. Now that she was
alone there, the house was too big for her and she was thinking of
taking a lodger. Only of course she would have to be very particular
about the sort of person she would take. A man was not to be thought of,
and a female lodger must neither be so young as to have the slightest
inclination towards flightiness, nor so aged as to be a possible
liability in the way of attendance or nursing, a thing which Miss Pell
was careful to explain you undertook for your own family—and she would
be the last to shirk her duty to a relative—but she couldn’t, no she
really couldn’t consider it in the case of a stranger. Doris’s room was
therefore still unoccupied.

The house was one of a row of cottages all joined together, so Miss Pell
had no need to be nervous. If she were to knock upon the wall on the
right as you looked to the front, old Mrs Rennick would knock back and
call out to know what she wanted. If she knocked on the lefthand wall,
young Mr Masters would do the same. There were of course, drawbacks to
this state of things, because Mrs Rennick disagreed a good deal with her
daughter-in-law. They carried on long arguments from one room to
another. And though the Masters’ baby was very good on the whole, it did
sometimes cry. But then, as Miss Pell had often said, when you sit and
sew all day it’s nice to hear what’s going on next door.

Miss Silver paid the visit, to which Randal March had raised no
objection, at about half-past three. Miss Pell admitted her to a narrow
passage with a stair going up on one side and a half-open door on the
other. Everything was very clean, but the house had the peculiar smell
inseparable from the profession of dressmaking. The room into which she
was ushered had a good-sized bay window. It seemed improbable that it
was ever opened.

Seen in the light, Miss Pell appeared to be about fifty years of age.
She had sparse greyish hair brushed back from the forehead and pinned
into a tight plait at the back. Her features were thin and sharp, her
complexion sallow, and her eyelids reddened. She began to speak at once.

‘If it’s about some more work for Miss Renie, I’m afraid I couldn’t
undertake it—not at present. You are the lady who is staying with her,
aren’t you—Miss Silver?’

Miss Silver said, ‘Yes,’ adding with a friendly smile, ‘And you are too
busy to take any more work?’

‘I couldn’t manage it—not for a long time,’ said Miss Pell. She spoke
in a curious, faltering way, running two words together, pausing as if
she was short of breath, and then going on with a rush. She went on now.
‘I haven’t really caught up, not since my poor niece—staying with Miss
Renie, you will have heard about her, I dare say. And apart from missing
her as I do, I was left with all the work the two of us had in hand, and
I don’t seem to be able to get it straightened out.’

Miss Silver knew trouble when she saw it, and she saw it now. The
reddened eyelids spoke of lack of sleep. She said in her kindest voice,
‘I know that everyone has felt the deepest sympathy with you in your
loss.’

Miss Pell’s lips trembled.

‘Everyone has been very kind,’ she said. ‘But it doesn’t bring her back.
If it hadn’t been for those letters——’

She didn’t know what made her speak of the letters. She had been asked
about them at the inquest, but ever since she had tried to keep them out
of her mind. Wicked, that’s what they were, and not fit language for a
Christian woman to call to mind. And Doris always such a good girl. She
felt her way to a chair and sat down because her legs were shaking. Her
thought found its way into words.

‘She was always such a good girl. None of the things in the letters were
true. She was a good Christian girl.’

Miss Silver had sat down too.

‘I am sure she was, Miss Pell. If the person who wrote those letters
could be found, it might save some other poor girl the same experience.’

Miss Pell stared at her.

‘Anyone that was wicked enough to write those letters would be wicked
enough to know how to hide themselves.’

‘Do you think that your niece had any idea who had written them?’

Miss Pell’s hands, which were lying in her lap, jerked and closed down,
the right hand over the left.

‘There wasn’t anything to say who wrote them.’

‘If she had had any idea, in whom would she have been most likely to
confide?’

‘She hadn’t any secrets from me.’

‘Sometimes a girl will talk to another girl. Had your niece any special
friend? Was she, for instance, friendly with Connie Brooke?’

Miss Pell looked down at her own clasped hands.

‘They had known each other from children,’ she said. ‘Miss Renie will
have told you I was maid to Miss Valentine’s mother, Mrs Grey—and a
sweet lady she was if ever there was one. When my brother died and I had
to take Doris, Mrs Grey let me bring her to the Manor. And just about
then Mrs Brooke and her little Connie came to Tilling Green, so there
were two little girls very much of an age, and Miss Valentine was the
baby.’

‘And they went on being friendly?’

‘Really fond of each other, that’s what they were. The very last bit of
work Doris did was to alter a dress for Miss Connie. And she must have
been one of the last people she spoke to too, because that was one of
the things she went out for that afternoon, to go along to the school
and let Miss Connie have her dress.’

Miss Silver looked at her gravely.

‘Miss Pell, you knew, did you not, that Connie Brooke was believed to
have told Mr Martin that she knew who had written those letters?’

‘It wasn’t Mr Martin who said so.’

‘No, it was his housekeeper. It was all over the village that Connie
Brooke knew about the letters, and that Mr Martin had told her that it
might be her duty to go to the police. Do you not think it would have
been her duty?’

‘I couldn’t say.’

Miss Silver waited for a moment. Then she said, ‘Connie died next day,
as suddenly as your niece did. If she had told Mr Martin what she knew,
I believe that she would be alive today. It was all over the village on
Saturday that Colonel Repton had been heard to say that he knew who had
written the letters. On Monday afternoon he was dead too. If he had told
the police what he knew, he would not have died. Now, Miss Pell, I think
that you know something, and I think it is of the first importance that
you should tell what you know.’

A little colour came up into the sallow face. The eyelids came down for
a moment over the faded eyes, and then were raised again. In a changed
voice Miss Pell said, ‘It is the third sign——’

‘Yes, Miss Pell?’

‘Once by a dream,’ said Miss Pell, looking fixedly at her, ‘and once by
the Bible text, and once by your mouth. If there was a third sign, I
said that I would know what I had to do.’

If the words were strange, her manner was perfectly composed. Her hands
now held each other lightly and without straining. Miss Silver said,
‘There is something you know and that you think you ought to tell?’

The answer she received was an indirect one.

‘I will tell you about the signs. You won’t understand unless I tell you
about them. Because when Doris came home that day I promised her that I
wouldn’t speak of what she told me, and it isn’t right to break a
promise to the dead—not unless there is a sign, and I’ve had three. She
said to me, “You’ll never tell, Aunt Emily, now will you?” And I said,
“Of course I won’t.” Nor would I ever, if it hadn’t been for the signs.’

‘What were they, Miss Pell?’

‘The first was a dream that I had in the night. Last night it was, and
as clear as if I was waking. I was here in this room and sewing on
something black, and I was crying over the work, and I remember thinking
that it would be spoiled, because nothing spots quicker than black. And
then the door opened and Doris and Connie came in together, holding
hands like they would when they were little girls. They had a big bunch
of flowers between them, holding it—lilies, and roses, and all sorts.
And there was a light all round them, so that they shone. Doris was on
the right and Connie on the left. In my dream they came right up to me,
and Doris said not to cry any more, because there was no need, and not
to trouble about the promise I’d made, because it didn’t matter. And I
woke up in my bed upstairs with the alarm clock going.’

Miss Silver said very kindly indeed, ‘It was a comforting dream.’

Miss Pell’s eyes were full of tears.

‘It ought to have been, but it wasn’t. I’d heard about Colonel Repton,
and I kept troubling in my mind about whether the dream meant that I was
to break my promise and go to the police, and whether it was a sign, or
whether it had just come up out of my troubling about what I had said to
the police. I hadn’t told any lies—I wouldn’t do that—but when they
asked me if I had told them all I knew, I just put my handkerchief up to
my face and cried, and they thought that I had.’

‘I see.’

‘So I thought what I could do to make sure about the sign. And what I
did, I took my Bible and I shut my eyes and opened it just where it
fared to open and put my finger on a verse. And when I opened my eyes it
was the fifteenth verse of the eighth chapter of Zechariah, and it
said—“These are the things that ye shall do; Speak ye every man the
truth to his neighbour; execute the judgement of truth and peace in your
gates.” So I thought, “If that isn’t a sign, I don’t know what is.” And
then it come over me that I’d never broken a promise in my life, and
that I’d got to be sure. And I thought, “If the Lord wants me to speak,
He can send me a third sign just as well as the other two, and if there
is a third sign, I shall know that it’s from the Lord and I shall know
what I’ve got to do.” And then you come knocking at the door, a
stranger, and the very words of the sign in your mouth, telling me that
there was something I knew, and that I should tell it.’

Miss Silver repeated the words.

‘Yes, I think you should tell it.’

Miss Pell brought out an old-fashioned linen handkerchief neatly folded
and touched her eyes with it.

‘It was that last day before Doris was drowned. She went out in the
afternoon, and she’d got a mauve silk blouse she was taking to Miss
Maggie at the Manor, and a dress she’d made for Miss Wayne, a blue wool
that she had, coming out of mourning for her sister, and she said it was
a little tight under the arms though I couldn’t see it myself, so Doris
had been letting it out. Quite a round she had, what with leaving the
blouse, and the dress, and looking in to settle the pattern of a couple
of nightdresses for Miss Eccles and finishing up with Miss Connie. She
left the dress she had been altering for her to the end because of the
children not coming out of school until four. Well, she went there, and
she was properly upset, the same as she was when she came back home. And
at first she wouldn’t tell me anything at all, only that there was
something not quite right about the neck of Miss Maggie’s blouse and
she’d promised to alter it quick and run up with it in the evening.
“Well,” I said, “you’re not letting yourself get upset about that, are
you?” And she said, “No, Aunt Emily, it isn’t the blouse,” and she burst
out crying. So then I went on at her to tell me what it was, and she
said if she did, would I promise faithfully never to breathe it to a
living soul—and I promised. So then she told me.’

‘What did she tell you?’

‘She said it had come to her who had written those dreadful letters, and
she said it was this way. There were four houses she’d been in that
day—up at the Manor with Miss Maggie’s blouse, and at Willow Cottage
with Miss Wayne’s blue wool, and into Holly Cottage about Miss Mettie’s
nightgowns. And last of all in at the Croft with Miss Connie. That’s the
only four houses she was in. And in one of them—and she didn’t tell me
which—she picked up a little bit of paper that was on the floor. You
know how it is, if you see something lying about like that, it just
comes natural to stoop down and pick it up. Well, that’s what Doris did,
and when she’d got it in her hand she could see it was a torn-off piece
of one of the letters she’d had. A bottom left-hand piece it was, with
the Til of Tilling on it. Torn right in half the word was on the letter
when she got it, where it said everyone in Tilling Green knew that Doris
went with men on the sly. Well, there was this piece and she’d picked it
up, and she came over faint and had to sit down.’

Miss Silver said quickly, ‘Which house was it?’

Miss Pell took a long sighing breath.

‘She never told me. I told her she would have to, and she said she
didn’t think she ought, and perhaps it would be better to tell the
person she knew and make them promise solemn that they’d never do it
again. I asked her if she’d told Connie, and she said, “No more than
I’ve told you; and she’s promised the same as you have.” ’

Miss Silver said slowly, ‘But Connie said that she knew who it was.’

‘There may have been something that she thought about afterwards. She
came here to me on the Monday—that would be a couple of days before she
died—and she said had Doris told me about the bit of paper? And I said
whatever Doris told me, I’d promised I wouldn’t say a word. So she said,
“Well, you don’t need to, because I know what you know, and a bit more
too.” I asked her what she meant, and she said it was something Doris
had said that she remembered. “Doris picked up a bit of paper, Miss
Pell,” she said, “and she didn’t say where she picked it up, but she
said how white it showed up against the carpet, and she said what colour
the carpet was.” Connie said she didn’t think about it at first, but it
had come back to her, and now she couldn’t get away from it because she
knew the house that had a carpet that colour, and that would be the
house where Doris had picked the paper up.’

‘She really did say that?’

Miss Pell put up her hand to her for a moment.

‘Oh, yes, she said it just like I’m telling you. I’ve wished she hadn’t
ever since, but once a thing’s said it’s said, and you can’t get it back
any more than you can forget it when it’s been said to you.’

‘And Connie said the paper showed up white against this carpet, but she
didn’t tell you what the colour of the carpet was?’

Miss Pell shook her head.

‘No, she didn’t, nor what house it was in, nor anything more than what
I’ve told you. She sat just there where you are sitting now, and she
told me about the bit of paper, and she said, “I wish Doris hadn’t told
me, for I don’t know what I ought to do. You see, Miss Pell,” she said,
“if I tell, it will get round to the police, and even if it doesn’t it’s
going to cause the most dreadful talk and the most dreadful trouble, and
perhaps a case in court, and me having to go into the witness box and
tell about someone that is a neighbour and would never get over it if I
did. And what good will it do now Doris is dead? It won’t bring her back
again.” And I said, “No, it won’t bring Doris back.” ’

Miss Silver said gravely, ‘It might have saved Connie’s own life if she
had spoken. Have you said anything about this to anyone except myself?’

She shook her head again.

‘There’s been enough talk. And Doris is dead, and Connie is dead. The
way I see it there’s been too much said already. And if anyone had told
me I’d talk the way I have to a stranger, I wouldn’t have believed them.
And I wouldn’t have done it if it hadn’t been for my dream, and the
verse in Zechariah, and what you said when you come in.’

Miss Silver got up to go. But before she left the room she said very
earnestly indeed, ‘Do not tell anyone, not anyone at all, what you have
just been telling me. If it comes to telling the police, I will be
there, and I will make sure that you are adequately protected.’

Miss Pell looked first surprised and then a good deal alarmed. She had
risen from her chair, and now went back a step, her eyes widening and
her face paling. The nervous hesitation with which she had begun the
interview had returned upon her. She said with trembling lips, ‘They say
it’s a sin to take your own life, but I say the sin is on them that
drove poor Doris to it—and Connie too.’

‘Miss Pell, I do not believe that Connie Brooke took her own life, and I
am beginning to have very grave doubts as to whether your niece did
either.’

Miss Pell’s hand went up to her shaking lips and pressed them hard.

‘You don’t think—oh, you don’t think there was anything done to them by
somebody else?’

Miss Silver said, ‘Yes, I am afraid I do.’




                               THIRTY-ONE


Miss Silver woke next morning to the reflection that this was Wednesday,
and that a week ago Connie Brooke was alive and Valentine Grey was still
expecting to be married next day. Last Wednesday was, in fact, the day
of the wedding rehearsal, and the Wednesday evening the evening of the
party at the Manor from which Connie had walked home with Miss Eccles
and said good-night to her at the gate of Holly Cottage. They were now
on the eve of another inquest, and she was herself still staying with
Miss Maggie, who appeared to derive a good deal of support from her
presence.

‘I can’t say, I really can’t say, how grateful I shall be if you could
just stay on until after the inquest and the funeral. I don’t feel that
I ought to press you, for of course I have no claim and this is a house
of mourning, but you don’t know how much, how very much, I should
appreciate it if you were to stay. The fact is’—she proceeded in a
burst of confidence—‘my sister-in-law—oh, dear it does seem so
dreadful to call her that when, if it hadn’t been for her, my dear
brother might still be with us—the fact is, I really don’t feel that I
can meet her just as if nothing had happened. Because Roger was going to
divorce her—you know that, don’t you?—but I never would have thought
that he would do anything so dreadful as to take his own life, and in
such a terrible way. Oh, Miss Silver, do you think he really did? Nora
Mallett came in to see me yesterday afternoon when you were out, and
when I said that to her—I hardly like to repeat it—but do you know
what she said? Of course she is very downright and I have known her all
my life, but she said, “Of course he didn’t, Maggie, and no one who knew
him would believe it. That woman poisoned him.” Oh, Miss Silver, you
don’t think—do you? But it does make me feel so very nervous being here
with her alone—and dear Valentine too. So if you could stay on for a
little—because I keep hoping she will go away as soon as the funeral is
over.’

They did not actually see very much of Scilla Repton, since she only
appeared at meals. She had rung up Gilbert Earle and found that he could
hardly drop his end of the conversation quickly enough. And she had rung
up her convenient friend Mamie Foster, who amongst a scattering of
‘darlings’ had advised her strongly to dig her toes in and stay where
she was.

‘Of course, darling, I’d simply love to have you and all that, but if
there’s been any awkwardness like you say, then if I were you I’d dig my
toes in. Because even if he did change his will, as long as you’re in
you’re in, and not all that easy for anyone to put you out without
making the hell of a scandal. But once you’re out it mightn’t be easy to
get back, darling, if you know what I mean.’

Since she was just as well aware of this strategic fact as Mamie was,
and as she had also received something rather stronger than a hint from
the Chief Constable that the police would like her to be available for
further questioning, Scilla made up her mind to stick it out. She went
into Ledlington and saw Mr Morton, who informed her that she was right
out of Roger’s will, but that it was unlikely that Maggie Repton and
Valentine Grey would do anything about upsetting the settlement, which
raised her spirits considerably. She had really had no idea with whom
the decision would rest, but if it was only old Maggie and Valentine, a
little sobstuff would get her by with them all right.

With this off her mind, she went into Ashley’s and bought a very smart
black autumn model suit with the new skirt and a most becoming shoulder
line. She liked colours herself, and the brighter the better, but when
all was said and done nothing set a fair girl off like black, and men
fell for it every time. She could wear it at the inquest and at the
funeral, and it would be just the thing for town. She supposed she had
better have a hat—just a twist of something—and some veiling. A veil
could be very becoming, only it mustn’t hide her hair.

She brought all the things home with her and tried them on again in her
own room. Sometimes things were a ghastly disappointment when you did
that, but these looked even better than they had in the shop. Good
clothes gave you a pull when you were looking for a job, and with an
off-white blouse and something in the lapel there wouldn’t be any need
to look like a walking funeral. Meanwhile she didn’t have to see
anything much of either Maggie or Val—half an hour twice a day at lunch
and dinner, and an occasional meeting on the stairs or in the hall. And
for the rest, breakfast in bed and the struggle with being bored, which
wasn’t really anything new.

After Gilbert Earle had rung off in a hurry he sat down to compose a
tactful and charming letter to Valentine Grey. It was going quite well,
when he had a sudden urge to tear it up. Written words may be as
charming as you please, but they take colour and warmth from the voice.
He turned back to the telephone, was lucky enough to get Florrie, a
devout admirer, and sent her to fetch Valentine. Actually, the romantic
interest which she was unable to disguise had more of a chilling than a
softening effect. Valentine shut the door, took up the receiver, and
said, ‘Yes?’ all in an extremely restrained manner. Yet after Gilbert’s
first few words there was no doubt that a thaw had set in. It was not so
long since she had felt that it would be at any rate tolerable to marry
him, and here was his voice, kind and warm and feeling.

‘My dear, I suppose I ought not to be ringing you up, but I couldn’t
help it. Such a dreadful shock for you and for Miss Maggie. And I did
think a lot of him, you know—I really did, Val. He was always
extraordinarily nice to me. So I thought that in spite of everything you
would just let me say how sorry I am. That’s all, my dear. No need for
you to say anything—I understand.’ He rang off.

As she hung up at her end, her first thought was, ‘He really meant it.
It would have been much easier not to ring up at all.’ Then, quickly,
‘But that’s just what he means me to think. He can’t bear to be in the
wrong, or to have anyone feel that he isn’t as charming as one thought
he was. He is counting now at this minute on my saying just what I did
say to myself. Oh, yes, he’s counting on it, but all the same I believe
he did really mean that he was sorry.’ She didn’t get further than that.

The Chief Constable’s car drove up just after lunch. He asked for Miss
Silver, and when she came down to him in the study he greeted her with a
smile.

‘Well, I have one or two things I would like to ask Miss Maggie. I
haven’t liked to press her too hard, but she ought to be getting over
some of the shock by now.’

‘She is a good deal better. I think she could answer anything you wish
to ask her.’

‘I shall also want to see Mrs Repton. You know, there is quite a
prima-facie case against her. I’ve been in communication with the Public
Prosecutor, and her arrest is being considered.’

She did not speak, but she looked away. With all the affection and
respect which he had for her, there were moments when he could have
shaken her, and this was one of them. He did not ask her to bow to his
opinion any more than he was prepared to accept hers, either by force or
by favour, but this standing aside from the issue, this silent
impenetrable resistance, was exasperating in the extreme. He said with
more sarcasm in his voice than he was aware of, ‘I suppose you have
nothing very epoch-making to report?’

She looked at him gravely, and spoke gravely too.

‘It is often the very little things that count. I am sure I do not need
to tell you that. As Lord Tennyson so rightly says:

               strong in will
             To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.

‘What we find may seem a little thing, but the smallest addition to
knowledge is not to be despised.’

‘How true. Do I understand that you have a small addition to offer me?’

‘I think so.’ She seated herself as before in the sofa corner, the
flowered knitting-bag at her side. Having withdrawn from it little
Josephine’s now completed cardigan, she took out a crochet hook and
proceeded to give it an edging of double tricot. A similar edging had
already been added to the jumper. As she slipped the hook between two
stitches she said, ‘I think you had better sit down, Randal. What I have
to tell you, though slight in itself, may prove to be important.’

He complied with what was not so much a suggestion as a gracious
permission and reflected with a twinge of rueful humour that she had
most perfectly contrived to put him in his place. Only just there he had
to go back upon his own word. She didn’t contrive these things, they
were the result of an attitude of mind, an innate poise and dignity. He
had seen her freeze a usually imperturbable Chief Inspector where he
stood. He had seen her reduce the highly irreverent Frank Abbott to a
very real reverence. And—he might just as well confess it—in his own
case she could always with a look or an inflection waft him back to that
long-ago schoolroom over which she had presided with such efficiency.
The smile he turned upon her had lost its sarcasm. He said simply and
frankly, ‘You went to see Miss Pell?’

‘Yes, Randal.’

‘Did you get anything out of her?’

‘I think so. You had better hear what it is.’

‘I should like to.’

She told him accurately and succinctly about her interview with Miss
Pell. As always, he admired her faculty for remembering and repeating a
conversation. When it was done he sat silent and frowning for a while
before he said, ‘Well, it’s true enough about a corner having been torn
off the last letter which Doris got, but that appears to be the only
point upon which there is any confirmation. It was, of course, that
letter which pushed her right over the edge, and it was a filthy piece
of work. But a girl who is wrought up to the point of drowning herself
isn’t what you would call a reliable witness, and what she said is
hearsay at that.’

Miss Silver said mildly, ‘I have no doubt that Miss Pell was repeating
just what she had been told, both in the interview with Doris and in
that with Connie Brooke. If you were to question her, you would find
that she would repeat everything exactly as she repeated it to me. I
doubt whether there would be the smallest variation.’

He nodded.

‘I don’t doubt her accuracy, but a girl who is on the brink of
suicide——’

Miss Silver laid her hands down upon the blue cardigan and said in a
tone of astonishment and reproof, ‘My dear Randal, are you still able to
believe that Doris Pell took her own life?’

‘My dear Miss Silver!’

She said earnestly, ‘Consider for a moment. She has received a letter
with a corner torn off. She visits four houses, and in one of them she
picks up the missing piece of paper. She has no doubt of the importance
of her discovery, and she comes home very much upset. She now knows who
has written the slandering letters. Do you for one moment suppose that
she was able to conceal all the traces of her emotion at the time? She
stoops down without thinking, she picks up the scrap of paper, and at
once receives a severe shock. The effect of such a shock would be in
most cases to paralyse action. She would keep the paper in her hand,
stare at it, and become obviously confused and distressed. It is most
unlikely that she was alone when she made the discovery, and she was a
simple country girl not versed in concealment. We know, in fact, that
something of this sort is what happened, since Miss Pell mentioned that
she had ‘come over faint’ and had to sit down. Do you think it possible
that her agitation was not noticed? And if Doris could recognize the
torn-off corner as a piece of damning evidence, would not the person
whom it would certainly have ruined be quick to do so?’

His attention had become fixed. He said, ‘Go on.’

‘What would be your course of action if you were placed in such a
predicament, and if, like this detected criminal, you were without moral
sense and already actuated by feelings of bitterness and spite?’

He said with praiseworthy gravity, ‘You are asking too much of my powers
of imagination.’

She shook her head slightly and proceeded.

‘It would be absolutely necessary to silence Doris Pell. Three ways of
doing so might suggest themselves. She might be bound by a promise, she
might be offered a bribe, or there was the third and darker course which
was, I believe, adopted.’

‘You know, this is pure supposition.’

‘Not entirely, Randal. Where a cause proceeds to its logical effect and
where all circumstances combine in a reasonable possibility, there is at
least a case for very careful scrutiny. Consider the events of that
afternoon. Doris Pell goes up to the Manor with a blouse which she has
made for Miss Repton. Some trifling alteration is necessary, and she
agrees to make it and bring the blouse back in the evening. She then
crosses the Green to Willow Cottage, where she tries on the dress she
has been altering for Miss Wayne, and afterwards goes in next door to
settle the pattern of a couple of nightdresses for Miss Mettie Eccles.
Now it was in one of those three houses that she picked up that scrap of
paper, because by the time she arrived at Connie Brooke’s, which was her
last call, she was already in a state of distress and in a position to
tell Connie what she had seen. What she told Connie was, except for the
colour of the carpet, just what she afterwards told Miss Pell. She did
not tell either of them in which house she had picked the paper up. I
think this points to her having given some kind of a promise not to do
so. You will remember that she told her aunt that she did not think she
ought to tell her who it was that had written the letters, and that
perhaps it would be better if she made the person give a solemn promise
never to do it again. Does this not look to you as if she was planning
some explanation with this person?’

She waited for him to speak, but as he said nothing, she continued.

‘If the scrap of paper was picked up at the Manor, the letter from which
it had been torn could have been written by Miss Maggie Repton, by Mrs
Repton, by Valentine Grey, by Colonel Repton, or—just possibly but not
at all probably—by Florrie or by one of the other daily maids. I asked
Miss Maggie where she tried on the purple blouse which Doris had made
for her, and she said at once and without any sign of embarrassment that
it was up in her bedroom.’

March said quickly, ‘You really can’t suspect Miss Maggie.’

Miss Silver coughed faintly.

‘In arguing a case it is better that there should be no exception, but I
was about to remind you that Connie Brooke in telling Miss Pell of her
conversation with Doris reported her as saying that the scrap of paper
had shown up so white against the carpet, and that she had told her what
the colour of the carpet was.’

‘And what was it?’

‘Unfortunately, Connie did not say. But with regard to a piece of paper
showing up well upon it, the carpet in Miss Maggie’s room would not
answer such a purpose at all well, since it is of Indian manufacture and
there is a good deal of white in the groundwork.’

He said with a smile, ‘Miss Maggie is exonerated.’

A shade of severity just tinged Miss Silver’s manner.

‘With regard to the other people in the house, I find that Florrie let
Doris in and took her up to Miss Maggie’s room. She thinks that at this
time Mrs Repton was out and so was Valentine Grey, but she is not sure.
Neither is she sure whether either of them returned before Doris left.
Valentine Grey is not really a suspect, but this leaves us uncertain as
to whether Mrs Repton could have seen Doris pick up that scrap of paper.
Colonel Repton we need not consider, since he was to be one of the
victims. As for Florrie and the other maids, I feel sure they have
nothing to do with the case.’

‘There I am able to agree with you.’

She continued as if he had not spoken, ‘To come to Willow Cottage where
Miss Wayne tried on a dress, I think we may conclude that this would
also take place in her bedroom. The carpet there is a plain Wilton in a
faded shade of pink. That in the spare room, which I have been occupying
but which would have been empty at the time of Doris’ visit and might
therefore have possibly been used for the trying on, is in a similar
shade of blue. A piece of paper would certainly show up much better
there than on a carpet with a pattern. In the case of Miss Eccles there
was no question of trying anything on. The interview with Doris for the
purpose of selecting a nightdress pattern could have taken place
wherever it suited Miss Eccles’ convenience, but it would most likely
have been held in the sitting-room. I have seen this carpet for myself,
and it is deeper in tone than the one in Miss Maggie’s bedroom. Colonel
Repton was for a number of years in the East and brought these carpets
back with him as presents for his sister and his cousin. I have not seen
the carpet in Miss Eccles’ bedroom, but Mrs Rodney informs me that it is
a square of powder blue with a border in a darker tone. A piece of paper
would show up very well on this, but no better than on either of the
carpets at Miss Wayne’s. I do not feel that any conclusion can be drawn
from these particulars, but I thought it right to touch upon them.’

‘Do you really feel that any conclusions are to be drawn at all?’

‘Some, I believe. You see, Randal, whether it can ever be proved or not,
I am convinced that Doris Pell did not commit suicide. The account I
received from her aunt does not warrant the theory. A girl who was so
completely shattered by the allegations in an anonymous letter as to fly
in the face of her upbringing and her religious training by taking her
own life was not the girl who set out that afternoon on a round of
errands and was prepared to go up to the Manor again in the evening. If
she had been in the state of morbid despair which had been indicated she
would have shrunk from meeting people, shunned her friends, and implored
her aunt to do the errands for her. In response to a question from me
Miss Pell stated that Doris set off quite cheerfully. It is true that
she was upset when she came home, but this was entirely natural, and the
distress was not of the kind to drive her into suicide. She had
discovered the writer of the anonymous letters, and she was profoundly
shocked and on the whole disinclined to expose the person. Her mind was,
in fact, fully occupied in considering what she ought to do. Could there
be any moment when she would be less likely to take her own life? There
is simply no motive for it at all.’

He smiled.

‘You build up a very good case.’

‘And you do not take it seriously, do you? Well, I have nearly finished,
but I have just this to add. We shall probably never know whether the
matter of Doris’ discovery was mentioned between her and the person whom
she suspected. There could have been fear and suspicion on both sides,
with neither so sure of her ground as to risk putting suspicion into
words. On the other hand it is possible that words were startled out of
one of them, some interim pledge demanded and given, some appointment
made. I incline to think that is how it happened, since Doris neither
told Connie Brooke nor her aunt the identity of the person whom she
suspected. Doris went home, and later on after supper she went back to
the Manor with Miss Maggie’s blouse. Is it assuming too much to suppose
that she had talked of this errand in the other houses where she had
been that afternoon? She could have been met in the Manor drive by
someone either from Willow Cottage or from Holly Cottage. She could have
been followed when she left the house by someone from the Manor. There
is a point where the drive passes along the edge of the lake. You will
remember the spot. A stream flows in there and is crossed by a bridge.
Can you tell me just where Doris’ body was found?’

He said, ‘At the spot which you describe. It was considered that she had
thrown herself from the bridge.’

She said with great earnestness, ‘Randal, can you really believe that
she was not pushed?’




                               THIRTY-TWO


March remained looking not at her but past her into the small fire which
burned on the study hearth. Actually, his mind had swung back to the
recollection of other times when Miss Silver had used that earnest tone
and when she had been right. Throughout his experience she had made a
habit of being in the right. It might be, it frequently was,
exasperating, but it had to be reckoned with. He felt himself obliged to
reckon with it now. He could depend upon his own judgement to be
intelligent, temperate, and fair, but he felt bound to recognize in Miss
Silver something to which he could not lay a claim. And of course he
could always save his pride by having recourse to the perfectly
legitimate argument that she had the opportunity denied to the police of
seeing the various suspects at their ease and without any consciousness
that they were being watched. He found that he did not desire or intend
to avail himself of this argument. His desire was, quite simply, to
arrive at the truth. He turned an open look upon her and said, ‘I
wonder——’

He was aware of some added warmth in her regard. The answer had pleased
her. He was conscious of an absurd satisfaction. She said, ‘I think,
like myself, you must feel unable to push coincidence beyond a
reasonable point. Doris Pell comes back to her aunt and says that she
knows who wrote the anonymous letters. She is drowned the same evening.
Connie Brooke is heard to say that she knows who wrote the letters. The
story is all round the village within twenty-four hours, and only a few
hours after that Connie is found dead in her bed from an overdose of
sleeping tablets. On Saturday Colonel Repton is heard asserting that he
knows who wrote the letters. Once more the story is circulated. On the
Monday afternoon he is found poisoned in this very room. Can you
possibly believe that the case of Doris Pell has no connection with the
other two cases, and that they are not all the work of the same hand?’

He nodded.

‘It certainly looks that way. But as long as the first death stood alone
and Miss Pell withheld her evidence, no other verdict than suicide could
be expected in the case of Doris Pell. There is now a presumption that
these three deaths were caused by the same person. The question is,
which person? And it seems to me that the additional evidence you have
produced piles up at Scilla Repton’s door. Doris could have picked up
the compromising scrap of paper somewhere else than in Miss Maggie’s
room. We don’t know in what circumstances it came to be on the floor at
all. It could have spilled out of a drawer, a book, or a blotter. It
could have been pulled out of a pocket with a handkerchief. It could
have dropped from a wastepaper basket or a handbag. You say that Doris
was shown up to Miss Maggie’s room. What happened when she left?’

‘Florrie took her up, but she found her own way down.’

‘Then she could have gone or been called into Scilla Repton’s bedroom,
or into her sitting-room, which has a door into the hall as well as into
the drawing-room. Was there anything to prevent that?’

‘Not that I know of, Randal.’

‘Mrs Repton may have wanted her to undertake some work for her. They
could have been looking at patterns, and the piece of paper may have
been caught up with them and fallen. Mrs Repton would know that Doris
was returning to the Manor after dark, and she is a strong, active young
woman who could easily have pushed her off the bridge. If she did take
that first step, the others would follow, with a strong additional money
motive in Roger Repton’s case. There is, of course, no evidence to
connect her with Connie Brooke on the night of her death, but if it can
be proved that she poisoned her husband, there would be no need to
proceed with the other two cases.’

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘I cannot feel any reassurance of Mrs Repton’s guilt.’

‘Would you like to tell me why?’

The crochet hook went in and out, drawing the blue wool into a trellised
edging. She said, ‘It is very difficult to put into words. If she is
guilty, I should expect some indication of her guilt, some suggestion
that she is vulnerable. But I could not discern that Mrs Repton had the
least awareness of danger. Fear is the hardest thing in the world to
disguise. Had she been afraid, I do not believe that she could so
entirely have concealed the fact. It did not seem to me she realized
that she had any cause for fear.’

‘I should say she was fairly tough.’

‘Even the most hardened criminal has an instinct for the approach of
danger. Had Mrs Repton been conscious when you were questioning her that
she had committed three murders, and that she now stood on the brink of
discovery, I feel sure that her reactions would have been other than
they were. There was a kind of lack of awareness which impressed me. I
do not know that I can get nearer to it than that.’

‘She is tough, and she was putting on an act. If these three people were
murdered, I maintain that she is the most likely person to have murdered
them.’

Miss Silver shook her head.

‘This case does not begin with the murders, Randal. It begins with the
anonymous letters. They are quite fundamental. In looking for their
author you are looking for a frustrated person with a secret passion for
power.’

He lifted his brows.

‘I can imagine that Scilla Repton might feel frustrated in Tilling
Green.’

‘Oh, no, Randal—not at the time when the letters began. Her affair with
Gilbert Earle was going on, and her mind would have been occupied with
the shifts and subterfuges which such an intrigue entails. Also I
gravely doubt if she would have accused herself of infidelity, as the
letters certainly did.’

‘Did any other letters accuse her besides the one to Colonel Repton?’

‘I think it likely that Miss Grey’s letter did so. According to Florrie,
she received one. In fact she admitted as much to you, did she not?’

‘Oh, yes—she said that she had burned it. I should say that you were
probably right, and that it accused Scilla Repton and Gilbert Earle of
an intrigue.’

‘And do you think that Mrs Repton herself would have written such a
letter?’

‘I don’t know. I think she might have done if she was out to smash
Valentine Grey’s marriage regardless of who got hurt. That was the
motive suggested by her husband.’ He moved, got up. ‘This is all sheer
speculation, you know, and I must get on. I think myself that we have
enough evidence to warrant the arrest.’

She put away her work and rose.

‘Will you question her again?’

‘I do not see that there is any other course open to me. She will have
to be cautioned this time.’

He left the room feeling a little as if he had not quite measured up to
some indeterminable standard.




                              THIRTY-THREE


Some little while later, lunch being over, Miss Silver was taking coffee
in the drawing-room in the company of Miss Maggie Repton. Little
Josephine’s cardigan, now completed and needing only to be pressed, had
been displayed and admired and Ethel Burkett and her family had been the
subject of some desultory conversation, when Miss Maggie sighed and
said, ‘I have often thought how delightful it would be if Valentine were
married and had a family. It is so interesting to see children growing
up. But of course, I oughtn’t to be talking of anything of the sort now
that she isn’t even engaged.’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘It may be too soon to call it an engagement, but surely she and Mr
Leigh——’

Miss Maggie said, ‘Oh dear—’ and then, ‘Do you think that people have
noticed anything?’

Miss Silver said indulgently, ‘I do not see how they can help it.’

Miss Maggie said ‘Oh dear—’ again. She gave another sigh and followed
it up with a hesitating, ‘If only there isn’t another of those wicked
letters——’

Miss Silver had been waiting for just such an opening. She said with a
good deal of sympathy, ‘Did you ever have one yourself?’

Miss Maggie looked over her shoulder in an apprehensive manner. The
large room was empty of anything but its proper furnishings.

‘Oh,’ she said—‘oh, Miss Silver, I never told anyone ... But yes, I
did.’ She put down her coffee-cup because her hand had begun to shake.
She really couldn’t help it. Everything in her shook when she thought
about those dreadful letters.

‘It would have been better if you had shown it to the police.’

A thin dull colour came up into Miss Maggie’s cheeks.

‘Oh, I couldn’t—I really couldn’t! It said such dreadful things!’

‘About your sister-in-law?’

‘Yes—you have no idea——’

‘Did you keep it?’

Miss Maggie dropped her voice to a trembling whisper.

‘Oh, yes, I did—in my jewel-case—locked-up. Would you like me to show
it to you? Since—since Roger died I have thought—I have wondered if I
ought to show it to someone. You are such a help to me. If you would
look at it—perhaps you could tell me—what I ought to do.’

Miss Silver smiled in a reassuring manner.

‘I will look at it when you go up to have your rest.’

Miss Maggie’s jewel-case was one of the large old-fashioned sort covered
in black leather with a small gold pattern stamped round the edge and
the initials m.b. upon the lid. The leather was shabby, especially at
the corners, and the gold almost worn away. Miss Maggie explained the
initials as being her grandmother’s—‘She was Lady Margaret Brayle’—and
opened the box with a small round brass key. There were several trays
inside lined with violet velvet and edged with the same gold pattern as
the lid, only a good deal fresher. From the second tray she lifted a
heavy bracelet and produced from beneath it a folded sheet of paper.
Then, having taken it out, she stood with it in her hand and hesitated.

‘I really don’t like to show it to you.’

‘If it would ease your mind——’

‘Oh, it _would_—it would _indeed_!’

Miss Silver extended her hand.

‘Then I will look at it.’

The paper was as described by Randal March, cheap and flimsy with lines
upon it. But the writing made no attempt to follow the lines. It
sprawled across the sheet in large ungainly letters which did not look
as if they had been formed by a nib—the strokes were too thick and too
smeared. It occurred to Miss Silver that if a match-stick were slightly
pointed and dipped in the ink it might produce this kind of effect, and
she thought it might be quite a good way to disguise one’s writing.

The wording of the letter was even worse than she expected. Scilla
Repton was accused in language of the coarsest kind. She turned the page
and read to the end where the signature ‘Well-wisher’ ran slanting down
into the right-hand corner. The other corner was blank. Turning it over,
she discovered that the space on the other side was empty too. An idea
immediately presented itself to her mind. She said, ‘Dear Miss Repton, I
do think that this should be shown to the police.’

Miss Maggie’s eyes filled with tears.

‘I should feel so ashamed.’

‘If you would like me to do so, I would show it to the Chief Constable.’

Miss Maggie clasped her hands.

‘Oh, if you only would! I have really laid awake at night wondering what
I ought to do and feeling that perhaps I ought to have told Mr March
about it. I did try and answer all his questions, and he asked me about
Roger getting one of these dreadful letters, and about Valentine getting
one, but he never asked me whether I had had one myself—and I did feel
so ashamed of showing it to anyone, especially to a man.’

When she had tucked Miss Maggie up on her bed in a warm dressing-gown
with an eiderdown to cover her and a hot-water bottle at her feet, Miss
Silver went to the bedroom which had been allotted to her next door, a
comfortable old-fashioned room with a good deal of dark mahogany
furniture and a handsome purple bed-spread which gave the bed rather the
appearance of a catafalque. Not that this comparison would have occurred
to Miss Silver. She considered the material to be sumptuous, and the
colouring extremely rich. The fact that the room had a northern aspect
had preserved it from fading, and both the spread and the curtains,
which displayed a pattern of grapes and vine leaves in shades of brown
and purple, were in a remarkable state of preservation. The carpet, of
the best quality Brussels, had once possessed a small design in such
dark colours as could be trusted to show no marks. They were all now
gone away in a general gloom. The room had been furnished as a
guest-room by that Lady Margaret whose initials lingered upon her
jewel-case. She had considered herself very modern and advanced when,
the year being 1840, she had done away with the tester which had until
then surmounted the bed, and the heavy curtains which surrounded it.

Miss Silver went over to the dressing-table and sat down there. She
spread out the letter which Miss Maggie had given her and looked at it
for quite a long time.




                              THIRTY-FOUR


Jason Leigh lifted the latch of Mr Barton’s gate, walked up to the side
door, and knocked upon it. The work on which he had been employed was of
the nature to develop what is often called a sixth sense, though it may
perhaps more properly be considered to be a heightening of the other
five. As he stood knocking on the door of Gale’s Cottage he felt
tolerably sure that he was being watched. It was not really dark
outside, but it was dark enough for there to be a light in the front
sitting-room of Willow Cottage. All the rooms next door looked either to
the front or to the back. Only a staircase window commanded a view of Mr
Barton’s sideways-facing door. It is true that by leaning out of the
nearer of the two front bedrooms such a view could be obtained, as Miss
Silver had discovered on the night of Connie’s death, when she had
watched Mr Barton come home with his cats. But while Jason stood on the
doorstep knocking nobody leaned from any window, and the sensation of
being watched connected itself in his mind with the stairway and the
narrow pane of glass which lighted it. No one had leaned out, but he had
a feeling that someone had drawn back in a hurry and then stood there
watching him.

His mind gave an impatient jerk. The Miss Waynes had always been great
collectors of gossip, like Mettie Eccles and half a dozen more of their
kind, and Miss Renie would be waiting to see whether he got in past Mr
Barton’s guard. When he did, she would be disappointed. And with that
the key turned, the door swung in, and he stepped across the threshold.
There was enough light from the open kitchen door to pass him through.

James Barton locked the door behind him and took him to the lighted room
with a friendly hand on his shoulder. The curtains were drawn, the lamp
lit, and the cats laid out in front of the fire, but whereas they had
not moved a whisker for the Chief Constable, they now rose, stretched,
and came to rub themselves against Jason Leigh.

Jason had a name and a word for each of the
seven—Achan—Abijah—Ahitophel—Agag—Abimelech—Abner—Absalom. Mr
Barton came as near a smile as he ever did.

‘They don’t forget a friend. Animals don’t mostly, and cats are the
choosiest of the lot. If they like you they do, and if they don’t like
you they don’t, and that’s all there is about it.’

The cats went and lay down again. The two men seated themselves. After a
while Barton said, ‘When do you go off again?’

Jason laughed.

‘Probably I don’t.’

‘Quitting?’

‘Probably. I have an urge to farm. I trained and did a couple of years
after the war, you’ll remember, and I feel like taking it up again.’

Barton had picked up his pipe and was filling it.

‘Why?’

‘I’m thinking of getting married.’

‘Then you’re a damned fool.’

‘Not when it’s Valentine.’

Barton gave him a quick hard look.

‘And what do you expect me to say to that?’

‘If you’re a fool you’ll say all women are alike. But they’re not, any
more than all men are. If you say what I expect you to say, it will be
that there’s only one Valentine and I’m lucky to get her.’

There was a long pause. Barton struck a match and lit up. When he had
got the pipe going he said in his deep throaty voice, ‘No, you can’t
expect me to say that—not when you know how I feel about women. But if
there ever was one who was different from the rest, it was her mother.’

Jason looked across at him with a spark in his eyes.

‘And what did you know about Mrs Grey?’ he said.

James Barton met the look.

‘Just what anyone couldn’t help knowing. She was good, and something had
broken her heart and she wasn’t one that could live without it. And when
I say she was good, I don’t mean that she was what is commonly called a
good woman, which is a way of speaking that can be stretched to cover
all the pettiest and meanest of vices. So long as you don’t borrow your
neighbour’s husband or step outside the bonds of your own marriage you
may be mean, jealous, quarrelsome, deceitful, a spend-thrift, a
pinch-penny, a nagger, a doubter, and as vain as the devil, and yet be
accounted a virtuous woman. Mrs Grey had another kind of goodness than
that. I didn’t speak to her more than three times. Once when she came in
upon us when I was in the study with Roger. He named me as an old
friend, and she said, “How do you do, Mr Barton?” and I said “How do you
do?” And two other times, when she said it was a fine day—that was one
of them. And she was afraid it was going to snow—that was the other.
But there was something in her that was like a light shining in a
window. When you see goodness like that, you can’t blaspheme by saying
it isn’t there. The girl has a touch of it, I’ll grant you that.’

Jason was oddly moved. His friendship with James Barton went a long way
back to a day when, at ten years old, he had plunged into single combat
with a bull-terrier in defence of one of the current cats, an earlier
Ahitophel, who would usually have been more than a match for any dog but
which had in this instance just been disabled by a stone thrown by one
William Clodd. The stone broke Ahitophel’s leg, and the bull-terrier got
him by the scruff, after which several more boys and dogs joined in and
the garden of Gale’s Cottage became a pandemonium into the midst of
which James Barton erupted with a broom in one hand and a poker in the
other. Everyone having taken to flight except the bull-terrier, from
whose jaws Ahitophel had to be prised, Jason was invited in for the
stanching of the wounds. He had two bites, but he won James Barton’s
heart by insisting that Ahitophel’s need was greater than his own. After
which he was more or less free of the cottage and Tommy Martin let him
go there.

They talked now in a desultory manner, with frequent intervals of
silence. It was during one of these, when Jason had strayed over to the
bookshelves which covered the whole of one wall, that Barton said, ‘I
had the Chief Constable here to see me, but you’ll have heard that, I
suppose. Everyone knows everything in Tilling Green.’

Jason made some sort of a sound, non-committal and of an uninterested
nature, following it up with, ‘Where on earth did you pick this up?’

‘What have you got there? Oh, the _Wonderful Magazine_. Picked it up on
the stall at the corner of Catchpenny Lane in Ledlington. Full of nice
examples of early nineteenth century credulity, including a particular
account of a case of spontaneous combustion.’

Jason laughed.

‘I don’t know that credulity stopped in the early nineteenth century. If
a thing is wonderful enough, somebody will believe it. Anything to
escape being dull.’

There was a pause, after which James Barton said, ‘Tilling Green can’t
have been exactly dull for the last ten days.’

‘I suppose not.’

‘Do you know, as far as I’m concerned none of it had happened until this
man March came to see me.’

‘How do you mean?’

‘I don’t go out in the daytime unless I have to. When I have to, I don’t
speak to anyone and nobody speaks to me except in the way of business
across a counter, so I don’t hear any of the scandals with which the
Green enlivens the tedium of its days. I was not aware, for instance,
that the police are more than half inclined to suspect that Connie
Brooke was murdered, and that they are quite sure Roger Repton was. And
that being that, I am only surprised they don’t add in that other girl
too, Doris Pell, and make a job of it. They can then tack the three of
them on to the anonymous letters that have been going round and lay the
lot at my door.’

Jason looked over his shoulder.

‘Is that March’s line, or did you think it up for yourself?’

James Barton said, ‘I was one of the last people to see Roger alive. He
wanted to know what about it.’

Jason pushed the _Wonderful Magazine_ back into its place on the shelf
and came back to the table. He was frowning.

‘His wife was the last to see him—no, Mettie Eccles when she brought
him his tea.’

‘Fortunately for me. But I could still have put cyanide into the
whisky.’

‘Why should you?’

‘Oh, just an urge to kill my best friend, I suppose.’

‘March can’t really think——’

Barton blew out a cloud of smoke.

‘Perhaps not. Or—perhaps. I don’t suppose he has made up his mind. And
that being the case, what happens if I tell him something which might
point the finger of suspicion at somebody else?’

Jason made a quick impatient movement.

‘You mean Scilla—Scilla Repton. The finger is pretty firmly pointed in
her direction already. He was going to divorce her, you know—or perhaps
you don’t know.’

Barton nodded.

‘Yes, he told me. He was a fool to marry her. I could have told him so,
but for that sort of folly nobody takes advice. It’s like any other kind
of poison, you must get it out of your system yourself. But sometimes it
kills you first, or kills everything in you that has any interest in
living.’

Jason said quickly, ‘What do you know?’

Barton drew on his pipe.

‘Oh, just something—something.’

‘What?’

‘Nothing to do with Roger.’

‘With what? With whom?’

Barton blew out his smoke.

‘Perhaps not with anyone at all.’

‘Are you going to tell me?’

‘I don’t know—I’m thinking about it. I’d like you to do some talking
first. Just tell me the whole thing right through as you know it—the
letters, Doris Pell, that whey-faced Connie. Nothing to her one way or
the other I always thought, but she gets herself mixed up in a murder!
Now why did she want to do that?’

‘I don’t suppose she did want to.’

James Barton nodded.

‘Just a step in the dark and nothing there. Well, go on—let me have the
whole thing so far as you know it.’

‘I wasn’t here when Doris Pell was drowned, I’ve seen one of the letters
and a nasty bit of work it was, and Tommy’s Mrs Needham has kept me well
up to date with what the village is saying. So here goes.’

He told the story as it had come to him, making a plain narrative out of
the bits and pieces, and there emerged the basic fact of the anonymous
letters. Doris Pell had drowned because of them. Connie Brooke had said
she knew who wrote them, and she had died. Roger Repton had said he knew
who wrote them, and he had died.

When Jason had finished, a silence fell between them. It went on for a
long time. In the end of it, James Barton spoke.

‘This girl Connie—she came back across the Green on the Wednesday
night, and Miss Eccles with her?’

‘Yes.’

‘And said good-night at Holly Cottage and went on by herself to the
Croft.’

‘Miss Eccles says so.’

‘Meaning there’s no proof that she did?’

‘There’s no proof.’

‘So she could have gone on with her to the Croft, and gone in with her
and seen to it that she had enough of those sleeping tablets in her
cocoa to make sure she’d not wake up again.’

Jason nodded.

‘Yes, it could have happened that way.’

‘And it was Miss Eccles who took Roger his tea and was the last, the
very last, to see him alive, and the first to find him dead. And then
she cries out and accuses his wife. Quite a case to be built up against
Miss Mettie Eccles, isn’t there?’

Jason was watching him intently. He said, ‘Quite a case. It’s between
her and Scilla, I should say, with the odds on Mettie Eccles in Connie’s
case, and on Scilla in Roger Repton’s. Which I suppose is why there
hasn’t been an arrest. Logically, the whole thing ties up with the
letters—Doris, and Connie, and Roger. And as far as Roger is concerned
Scilla is heaven’s gift to the police. It’s Connie’s case which is the
snag. How in the world did Scilla Repton contrive to spirit Miss
Maggie’s sleeping tablets into the bedtime cocoa? There doesn’t seem to
be any way she could have done it. And that goes for everyone else
except Miss Mettie, who knew about the tablets though she says she
particularly warned Connie not to take more than one, and could quite
easily have gone the whole way home with her and drugged her cocoa. The
alternative theory is, I gather, that the cocoa was drugged whilst
Connie was at the party at the Manor, and that the drugging was quite
irrespective of Miss Maggie’s tablets. Which would be a bit of a
coincidence, but not really anything to boggle at, because apparently
everybody had been talking about Connie not sleeping, and that could
have put the idea of how to silence her into the mind of the person who
wrote the letters.’

James Barton said in a slow, considering manner, ‘Would you say it was
about fifty-fifty as between Mrs Repton and Miss Eccles?’

‘I don’t know. I suppose it would be. Just about, if it weren’t for the
fact that I can’t for the life of me see how Scilla Repton could have
drugged that cocoa. She was on show at the Manor from a quarter to eight
when the dinner guests began to arrive until the party broke up. She
couldn’t have gone across the Green to the Croft during that time, and
if it was done before that, Connie would have been in the house and the
cocoa wouldn’t have been made. Because, you see, Scilla would have had
to dress, and I don’t suppose that would be just a case of off with one
thing and on with another. Make-up takes time, and Scilla’s is quite an
expert job, I should say. So if you were going to suggest that she
nipped down one way whilst Connie and Miss Eccles were coming up by
another, I can assure you that she wouldn’t have had the time.’

Barton said equably, ‘I wasn’t going to suggest that. If you would stop
talking, I was going to tell you something.’

Jason laughed.

‘So you were! Or were you? I believe what you said was that you were
thinking about it. Well, let’s have whatever it was.’

James Barton leaned forward across the line of the sleeping cats and
knocked out his pipe against the open stove. Then he sat back again,
cradling the briar in his hand. After a moment he said, ‘I went for a
walk. I do most nights. With the cats.’

‘What time?’

‘Some time getting on for eleven. I didn’t look at the clock. Abner
wanted to go out, so then they all wanted to go. So we went round the
Green.’

‘Were the cars coming away from the Manor?’

‘Nary car—nary anyone at all. All the way till we came by the Croft.
And then there was someone.’

‘Who?’

‘Don’t ask me—though I suppose I could make a guess if I tried.’

‘Who was it?’

James Barton shook his head.

‘Abimelech crawled in under the gate. It was shut. I put my hand to the
latch and I heard someone coming round from the back of the house,
soft-foot and not making any more noise than one of the cats. I stepped
back—and I can go soft-foot too. Someone went by me in the dark and
Abimelech growled out and spat. That’s all.’

‘All!’

‘As far as I am concerned.’

‘Was it a man or a woman?’

Barton said slowly, ‘It was a—shape. You might say it went too soft for
a man. But some men can go soft—I can myself, and so can any poacher.’

‘Which way did it go?’

‘Oh, back towards the village, the same as I did.’

Jason said, ‘You ought to tell the police, you know. A person who came
round from the back of the Croft without showing a light wasn’t likely
to have been up to much good and could have been drugging Connie’s
cocoa. The police ought to know about it.’

James Barton gave an odd half laugh.

‘But, you see, there isn’t anything I can say about whoever this was
that he or she couldn’t say about me. I too lurked in the dark and
showed no light. Also I was accompanied by the cats, always a sinister
factor in midnight wanderings. You know, in spite of the cinema, the
march of science, and the Education Authority, villages still have a
lingering belief in witchcraft—and you can’t have a witch without a
cat, now can you?’

Disregarding this, Jason said abruptly, ‘Why didn’t you have a light?’

Barton shrugged.

‘I don’t need one.’

‘And yet when someone comes out of a gate right under your nose you
can’t tell whether it’s a man or a woman!’

Barton laughed again.

‘I suppose you think you’ve caught me.’

‘I think the word should have been _won’t_, not _can’t_.’

‘Perhaps. But that’s how it is—I was there, and I can’t say that I was
there without laying myself open to any suspicion that is going.’

Jason frowned.

‘I think you know who it was.’

Barton leaned forward.

‘No one could swear to it by sight. It’s very dark round by the Croft
with all those trees.’

‘But?’

‘Why should there be any but?’

‘Oh, there’s a but all right, and you might as well tell me what is it.’

James Barton sat there with his pipe in his hand. He began to tap the
table with it. And then all at once he stopped and reached for his
tobacco-pouch.

‘There’s only one person Abimelech growls at,’ he said.

‘Well?’

‘He growled.’




                              THIRTY-FIVE


Miss Silver walked down across the Green between tea and the evening
meal which the Manor still alluded to as dinner though the rest of
Tilling Green was content to sup. Even in the war Miss Maggie had
_dined_, in spite of being told to her face by Mettie Eccles that it was
plain snobbery when it came to cutlets made with egg-powder or a sardine
on toast. Miss Maggie had been a little perturbed by the imputation, but
she continued to dine. She said Roger didn’t like changes, and she
didn’t think Mrs Glazier would like them either. To which Mettie replied
that Maggie never did have a will of her own, and of course if you
hadn’t, she supposed you just had to prop yourself with conventions.
There was quite a tiff, but Miss Maggie’s obstinacy had prevailed. All
this was now far in the past, but Miss Repton had referred to it over
the tea-cups that afternoon.

‘Mettie has a very dominating character,’ she finished up by saying.
‘She is so efficient, you know, and if you don’t do things her way, she
tries to show you how. She means well, and I know it is wrong to get
cross with her, but I am afraid I sometimes do. Only not now of course,
because I am so very, very sorry for her. She and Roger and I were all
really brought up together, and she truly loved him. Dear Eleanor was a
good deal younger—Valentine’s mother, you know. Oh dear, it does seem
such a long time ago.’

Miss Silver had begun upon the dark red wool she had bought at Ashley’s
to make a cardigan for her niece Ethel Burkett. It was to be a Christmas
present. The first few rows made a line of rich colour upon the green
plastic needles. She said in her kindest voice, ‘You must have many
happy memories.’

Miss Maggie wiped away a tear.

‘Oh, yes, I have. But poor Mettie—do you know, I am feeling so
concerned about her, all alone in that cottage, and though she has Renie
Wayne next door, I don’t think—no, I really don’t think she would find
her any help. Renie always has so many grievances of her own—she
wouldn’t have time for anyone else’s troubles. I did ask Mettie if she
would come up here, but she says she can’t whilst Scilla is in the
house, and I’m afraid I don’t feel equal to going down to her—not just
yet. Now I suppose you would not feel inclined—it would do her so much
good to see you——’

Since an interview with Mettie Eccles was a thing which Miss Silver
greatly desired, she made no demur, replying with perfect truthfulness
that she would be very glad to go down to Holly Cottage if Miss Eccles
would not think her visit an intrusion, adding, ‘She may not care to see
me. I am, after all, a stranger, and she has had a great shock.’

‘You have helped _me_ so wonderfully.’ Miss Maggie’s voice was full of
gratitude. ‘You know, I am really anxious about Mettie, and I should be
most grateful if you would go and see her. Valentine has already had too
much strain, and I could make it all seem quite natural if you would
just take her down a basket of James Grieves. Such a nice apple and she
is so fond of them, but not a keeper so you can hardly ever buy them in
the shops.’

Miss Silver was half-way across the Green with the basket of James
Grieves upon her arm, when Jason Leigh loomed up out of the deepening
dusk. A little to her surprise he stopped, spoke her name, and said, ‘I
should very much like to have a talk with you, Miss Silver.’

From the equable tone of her reply no one would have guessed how
unexpected this was.

‘Why certainly Mr Leigh.’

Without directly pursuing the subject he said, ‘You are on your way to
Willow Cottage?’

‘I shall be going there to fetch a few more of my things, but at the
moment I am taking a basket of fruit to Miss Eccles from Miss Repton.’

He stood before her on the path, blocking her way.

‘Miss Silver, I think there is something that you ought to know. If you
would turn and walk back with me to the edge of the Green and then allow
me to walk with you as far as Holly Cottage, I think that would give me
time to say what I want to, if you don’t mind walking slowly.’

Miss Silver turned and began to move back along the way by which she had
come.

‘What do you wish to say to me, Mr Leigh?’

She had spoken to him before, because he had been often at the Manor in
the last two days, but this was the first time that she had suspected
him of having any interest in herself. She was not therefore prepared
for his saying, ‘Well, to begin with, I think I had better tell you that
I know why you are here.’

She gave her slight prim cough and said, ‘Indeed?’

With this small encouragement, he continued, ‘You see, I know Frank
Abbott. I happened to see him on my way through town. He thought I had
better know how you were placed. To be quite candid, he’s got the wind
up.’

She said on a note between reproof and affection, ‘Frank is not always
prepared to allow other people to take what he considers to be a risk.’

‘Connie Brooke’s death rattled him, you know, and last night he rang me
up in what you might call a flap.’

Miss Silver dissociated herself from this expression by saying, ‘He was
apprehensive on my account?’

‘He was.’

‘There is no need, Mr Leigh. I hope the whole matter will soon be
cleared up, and for the time being I feel it right to remain with Miss
Repton. But there was something you wished to tell me?’

‘Yes, there was—there is. Does the name of James Barton mean anything
to you?’

‘Certainly, Mr Leigh. He lives in Gale’s Cottage next door to Miss
Wayne. He is a woman-hater, a recluse. He has seven cats. They all have
Bible names beginning with an A, and they accompany him on his nocturnal
rambles.’

There was something like a laugh beside her in the dusk.

‘You have him taped! I want to tell you that he has been a friend of
mine ever since I was ten, that he is a strictly truthful and honest
person, and that he is quite incapable of injuring man, woman, child, or
beast. And when I say this I am talking of what I know.’

‘Yes, Mr Leigh?’

Jason went on.

‘I’ve just been seeing him. We were speaking about the anonymous letters
and the three deaths associated with them.’

They had reached the edge of the Green and turned again. Lights shone in
the cottages which faced them on the farther side. There was some wind
blowing and it was very nearly dark. They seemed to be the only people
abroad. Jason said, ‘He told me something—I think it may be important.
He refuses to go to the police with it. Your position in the matter—it
isn’t official?’

‘Not exactly. But I could not be a party to concealing anything which
the police ought to know.’

‘That is what I thought you would say. I told Barton as much myself. The
whole thing is too serious, too dangerous, for anyone to go about
withholding evidence. But—and this is why I am talking to you—this
isn’t matter for the Ledlington police station. It wants careful
handling. In fact, to be perfectly frank, I am bringing it to you
because you are in a position to take it to the Chief Constable. I told
Barton this was what I should do, and though he didn’t say so, I think
it was a relief to his mind. He wouldn’t have told me what he did if he
hadn’t expected me to do something about it.’

Miss Silver said in her quiet voice, ‘And what did he tell you, Mr
Leigh?’




                               THIRTY-SIX


Since Miss Eccles only had morning help, and that not every day, it was
she herself who opened the door in reply to Miss Silver’s knock. She had
put on the hall light, and as she stood back under it Miss Silver was
shocked to see how greatly she had changed in the two days that had
passed since Roger Repton’s death. She was, as always, carefully
dressed, and she was not wearing black, but the navy blue skirt and
cardigan seemed too loose. Her hair had lost its spring and the silver
lustre which had set off the delicate complexion and the bright blue
eyes. There was no colour anywhere now. Miss Silver was reminded of a
doll that has been left out in the rain. There was compassion in her
voice as she said, ‘May I come in for a few minutes, Miss Eccles? Miss
Repton has charged me with messages, and I have a basket of apples which
she has sent you. I think she said the name was James Grieve. I hope
that is right.’

Social training is not lightly thrown aside. Whilst the last thing
Mettie Eccles desired was to open the door to a stranger, she felt
herself quite unable to close it in the stranger’s face. Miss Silver,
stepping into the passage, was conducted to a sitting-room with blue
curtains, a few pieces of good furniture, and the oriental carpet which
had been a present from Roger Repton. There was no white in the pattern,
and the prevailing colours were a deep blue and some shades of rich old
rose. Miss Silver reflected that a scrap of white paper would certainly
be quite noticeable against it.

Miss Eccles took the basket of apples and emptied them out into a bowl
of old _bleu de roi_. Returning the basket, she had intended to remain
standing, but as Miss Silver had seated herself, she could hardly
refrain from doing so.

‘Miss Repton hoped you would understand that she would have come down,
but she is not really quite up to it, and Dr Taylor insists that she
should not put any strain upon herself.’

Mettie Eccles said in a dry voice, ‘What a pity that doctors cannot give
us a prescription against strain.’

Miss Silver said, ‘We have to find such a prescription for ourselves.
Friendship and sympathy help, do you not think so? Miss Repton is
reaching out for them. She asked me to say how very much she wanted to
see you, and how glad she would be if you would come over.’

Mettie Eccles did not look as if she had wept. Her eyelids had the
brown, shrivelled appearance which comes from tearless grief.
Momentarily between these dry lids her eyes took on colour—not their
old bright blue, but the colder shade of steel. She said, ‘Not whilst
that woman is there.’ The words came short and sharp.

‘You mean Mrs Repton? Miss Maggie said——’

Mettie Eccles lifted a hand.

‘I don’t know what Maggie is made of. How can she eat or sleep or live
under the same roof with Roger’s murderess? You have come with messages
to me. I would like you to take that back as my message to her. That
woman murdered Roger, and Maggie and Valentine go on living in the same
house with her, and the police don’t arrest her!’

Miss Silver spoke with a sudden quiet air of authority.

‘Miss Eccles, do you truly believe that Mrs Repton poisoned her
husband?’

Mettie Eccles gave a terrible little laugh.

‘Doesn’t everyone? Don’t you?’

Miss Silver coughed in a manner which conveyed the impression that she
was being discreet.

‘Then you must believe that she wrote those anonymous letters.’

Mettie Eccles stared.

‘What has that got to do with it?’

‘Everything, I think. Colonel Repton was killed because he had declared
that he knew who had written them.’

‘He was killed because he was going to divorce that woman and cut her
out of his will.’

Miss Silver’s air of authority became more noticeable. She said, ‘I
think not. He was killed because he knew who had written the letters,
just as Connie Brooke and Doris Pell were killed because they knew.’

Miss Eccles was accustomed to dominate an argument. She had a quick
brain and a quick tongue. It was something new to her to find herself
without words. She said almost in a whisper, ‘I don’t know what you
mean.’

Miss Silver went on speaking in that quiet voice, ‘Only the person who
wrote the letters had an interest in those three deaths. Did you ever
see one of the letters?’

Mettie Eccles said, ‘No.’ And then, ‘Why should I?’

‘You might have had one.’

The sagging shoulders lifted in a gesture of pride.

‘There hasn’t ever been a reason for anyone to write me a letter like
that. No one can say—no one——’ Her voice shook and broke. ‘How dare
you ask me that?’

Miss Silver went on calmly, ‘Then you would not know what the letters
looked like? You would not know whether this was a piece of one?’

She put out her hand with a small torn scrap of paper on it. A scrap of
cheap white paper which looked like the corner torn from the bottom of a
sheet. Mettie Eccles took it in her hand and looked at it. She saw
scrawled on it the first part of the name Tilling—just three letters,
and then the jagged edge of the tear. Miss Silver said, ‘You wouldn’t
have seen this scrap of paper before? You would not be interested to
know where it had been found?’

She was watching Mettie Eccles intently. What she saw interested her
very much. She had come with an open mind, and with great experience in
reading the motives and the thoughts of others. She had come without
fear or bias, and she saw what she had hoped to see, an answer to the
problem on which she was engaged.

Miss Eccles’s reaction was in line with the most salient of her
characteristics. Even in her present condition of shock and grief a
lively curiosity had its way. She exclaimed and said, ‘Good
gracious—you don’t mean to say you’ve had one!’

‘No.’

‘Not poor Maggie! What a shame! It’s too bad!’

Miss Silver said soberly, ‘I would like to tell you a story. On the day
that Doris Pell was drowned she paid a call in connection with her work
as a needlewoman. In that house, and during that call, she picked up a
scrap of cheap white paper torn from the corner of one of those
anonymous letters. It had the first three letters of the word Tilling
written upon it. She knew it at once for what it was, because she had
herself received the letter from which this corner had been torn. By the
way, may I have my piece of paper back?’

Miss Eccles handed it over. A little colour had come into her face. She
said with almost her old energy of voice and manner, ‘What a perfectly
horrid thing! What house was it?’

‘I can’t tell you that.’

Miss Eccles brows drew together in a frown.

‘Good gracious—but you must! Don’t you see how important it might be?
Why, she was here that afternoon. I was going to have some nightgowns
made—poor Doris! Now, let me see, where else had she been? I know she
was up at the Manor because Maggie was in a way about her blouse not
being right, and Doris had been there and fitted it and was going to run
up again with it in the evening, and it was when she was coming back
from there that she was drowned. That all came out at the inquest, only
the more I think about it—I haven’t been able to help thinking about
it—the more I just don’t believe that she did it on purpose. She was
here that afternoon and I was talking to her, and if she had had that in
her mind, don’t you think it would have shown?’

Miss Silver said, ‘You interest me extremely. Will you tell me just how
Doris was that afternoon? Was she just as usual?’

‘No—no—she wasn’t—I can’t say that. But she wasn’t depressed or
gloomy. Not the way a girl would have to be before she made up her mind
to commit suicide. And you know, the Pells weren’t Church people but
they were very religious. Doris was a good girl and she would have known
how wrong it was. I just thought perhaps something had upset her. As a
matter of fact I wondered whether Maggie had been a little sharp with
her about the blouse, and I thought it wouldn’t be like her if she had.
Maggie is a muddler, but she has always been easygoing.’ She paused, as
if considering, and then shook her head. ‘No, I can’t get nearer to it
than that about Doris. I thought something had upset her, and I thought
she was jumpy. But I don’t believe she drowned herself.’




                              THIRTY-SEVEN


Miss Silver left Holly Cottage with the consciousness of a task
accomplished. Actually two tasks. The scrap of paper which she had
detached from the letter received by Miss Maggie and upon which she had
herself scrawled the letters TIL with the sharpened end of a match
dipped in ink had successfully served a part of its purpose. She also
had the satisfaction of leaving Miss Eccles in a roused and stimulated
state. She walked down a flagged path and out of a rustic gate, only to
lift the latch of a similar gate and to walk up a twin path to the door
of Willow Cottage.

Miss Wayne opened to her in an even more tentative manner than Miss
Eccles had done. She had her door upon the chain and peered through the
gap, to become profuse in apologies when she discovered that it was Miss
Silver who was waiting on the step.

‘Oh dear, I am so sorry. It’s so disagreeable to be kept waiting in the
dark, but I’m afraid I’m apt to be nervous when I’m here alone. My dear
sister was always so strong-minded, and Joyce is too. But do come in—do
please come in.’

As Miss Silver stepped across the threshold she became aware of a very
decided smell of gas. She remarked upon it.

‘Do you think that one of the burners has blown out on your gas stove?’

Miss Wayne appeared flustered.

‘I was putting on a kettle and I dropped the match before the gas had
caught. I have opened the kitchen window and the smell will soon be
gone. I always think there is nothing so handy as gas to cook by, but it
does smell. We used to have it all over the house, you know, but Esther
was nervous about it, so when the Grid came through the village we went
on to electricity. It cost quite a lot, but it is much cleaner and
safer—only I don’t care about it for cooking, so we didn’t have the gas
cut off.’

They had arrived in the sitting-room. Miss Silver made her way towards a
chair.

‘Oh——’ Miss Wayne appeared to be surprised. ‘I thought perhaps you had
come for some more of your things.’

‘And for a little talk with you,’ said Miss Silver.

There was a small fire on the hearth. Miss Wayne came over to it and sat
down in her usual chair.

‘Oh, _yes_,’ she said. ‘And there is so much to talk about, isn’t there?
Poor Maggie—how is she? And Valentine—it’s a terrible thing for a girl
to be jilted like that at the last minute. You know, I thought something
had gone wrong when he didn’t turn up for the wedding rehearsal. That
story of an accident! I suppose he just felt he couldn’t go through with
it—and if he was only marrying her for her money, it was much better
for it to be broken off. Her mother’s marriage was a most unhappy one,
you know. One wouldn’t wish poor Valentine to have the same experience.’

Miss Silver said, ‘No.’

Renie Wayne got out her handkerchief and rubbed her nose with it.

‘Now you think I’m gossiping. My dear sister was so very strict about
anything like that, but when you are _fond_ of people, how can you help
being interested in what is happening to them? It isn’t as if one wanted
to say anything _unkind_.’ She emphasized the word strongly and went on,
‘Especially now that there has been this dreadful tragedy about Colonel
Repton. And to happen as it did, with all of us there in the next room!
It’s really too terrible for words!’

‘Yes, it is terrible.’

Renie Wayne flowed on.

‘And poor Mettie Eccles had just taken him in his tea! I’ve been round
of course, but she doesn’t seem to want to see anyone. She should think
how it _looks_—giving way like that! Of course we all know she was
devoted to him, but he was a married man and people will talk if she
goes on shutting herself up. Somebody really ought to tell her so!’

Miss Silver gave a faint reproving cough.

‘I do not think that it would be advisable.’

Miss Wayne sniffed and rubbed briskly at her nose.

‘We can all see what comes of shutting oneself up. One hasn’t to look
any farther than next door for that! That dreadful Mr Barton and his
cats—I have really often thought that I would go to the police about
them. The one that he calls Abimelech is positively _unsafe_! Do you
know, Miss Silver, the wretched creature actually growls at me! Only
this afternoon——’ She broke off with an effect of suddenness and
dabbed at her nose. ‘But really, Mettie Eccles would do well to be
_warned_! Naturally, poor Colonel Repton’s death has been a terrible
shock to us all.’

Suspicion is one thing, certainty is another. For a moment Miss Silver
was aware of Jason Leigh saying as they crossed the Green, ‘Someone came
round from the back of the Croft in the dark, and the cat growled.
Barton says there’s only person that he growls at. He wouldn’t tell me
who it was.’ And now, here in Miss Wayne’s sitting-room, the information
which Mr Barton had withheld was being presented to her. She said,
‘Murder is a terrible thing, Miss Wayne.’

Renie Wayne gave a small exaggerated start.

‘Murder? Oh, no, it was suicide. Because his wife—surely you must have
heard that his wife——’

Miss Silver repeated the offending word.

‘Colonel Repton was murdered.’

‘Oh no——’

Miss Silver went on firmly.

‘He was murdered because he had said that he knew who had written those
anonymous letters. It is not possible to say whether he really knew or
not, but he was overheard to say that he did. What he said was repeated,
and because of it he was murdered, just as Doris Pell was murdered
because she knew, and Connie Brooke because she too said that she knew.’

The hand with the cambric handkerchief fell into Miss Wayne’s lap. She
said in a fluttering voice, ‘Oh—oh—how dreadful! Are you sure?’

Miss Silver said, ‘Yes, I am sure.’ She opened her shabby handbag and
took out of it the small torn scrap of paper which she had shown to
Mettie Eccles. She held it out now to Irene Wayne. ‘Would you like to
know where and in what circumstances this was found?’

The small eyes became focused upon the hand and what it held, the voice
sharpened.

‘No—no. What is it? I haven’t the least idea——’

Miss Silver said, ‘I think you have. I think that you have seen
something very like it before. I think it was because of a scrap of
paper like this that Doris Pell came to her death. I think you saw it in
her hand, as you are seeing it in mine.’

Quite suddenly, as if she were looking at a dissolving picture, Miss
Silver saw before her not Irene Wayne, not in fact a human creature at
all, but a ferret with small fierce eyes and a twitching nose. It was a
ferret that had been muzzled and caged, and then all at once had found
itself free to nose about and sniff out its prey, to lurk, and bite in
secret. There was a spasm of something like terror, and then what was
almost a snarl.

‘Who gave you that? Who gave it to you?’

Miss Silver said, ‘It came to me, Miss Wayne.’

The small face was distorted by fury, by fear, and then by fury again.

‘What do you think you are going to do with it?’

‘There is only one thing that I can do.’

‘But you won’t do it!’ said Renie Wayne in a small sharp voice. ‘You
won’t do it, because I can stop you! You think yourself very clever,
don’t you, coming down here and spying into things that don’t concern
you! But I can be clever too! You didn’t think of that, did you, but you
had better think about it now! None of these stupid people thought about
it! I was just Miss Renie whom they didn’t have to bother about! Esther
could be put on their committees, and Mettie Eccles, and that
interfering Nora Mallett, and if it wasn’t one of them who would be
chairman it would be one of the others! But nobody ever thought about
asking me! I was the one who could be left out! Why, Maggie didn’t even
ask me to the party the other night! I didn’t let them see that I
minded—I was too clever for that! But I found a way to punish them all
right!’ Her voice trailed down into a gasping whisper. ‘Long ago—oh,
long ago—at Little Poynton—that’s when it began—and it was all quite
easy to do. But Esther found out and she stopped me. But when she was
dead I could do as I liked!’ Her tone changed on the words. There came
into it an extraordinary and dreadful gaiety, a smile stretched the dry
lips. She tossed the wisp of a handkerchief in the air and caught it
again. ‘You don’t know how I enjoyed myself!’ she said. ‘Nobody knew! I
put on a black dress, and I cried when people were there, but I laughed
when I was alone! There was a woman who called me a little dried-up
faggot—I heard her! Well, I knew something she had done—oh, years ago!
I put it in one of the letters, and next time I saw her in church she
didn’t look nearly so pleased with herself—oh dear, no! That was what
was such fun, you know—sending off the letters and then watching the
people to see how they looked when they had had them!’

Miss Silver had been looking at her gravely. The balance of a mind which
had been long disturbed had now, and perhaps finally, slipped. For the
moment at any rate, fear of discovery with its accompaniment of disgrace
and retribution were lost in the egotism and self-adulation of the
criminal. She began to consider how this interview could be ended.

Irene Wayne went on talking.

‘Doris Pell was a very stupid girl. When people are as stupid as that,
it is amusing to try and stir them up. She didn’t like me, you know. I
could tell when she was trying on that blue dress I had when I came out
of mourning for Esther—she didn’t like touching me! I sent her two
letters saying that everyone knew she was an immoral girl.’ She gave a
small shrill twitter. ‘Well, she didn’t like _that_! And I suppose she
thought herself _very_ clever when she came here to fit me on and she
picked up the piece of paper which had got torn off her letter. I don’t
know how you got hold of it, but I suppose you think you are very clever
too! You had better take care not to be too clever, because—what
happened to Doris?’

Miss Silver said gravely, ‘You pushed her off the bridge and she was
drowned.’

Irene Wayne laughed—a dreadful sound.

‘She hit her head against one of those big stones and she was drowned.
It isn’t at all a good thing to make me angry, you know. I can punish
people. I punished Connie Brooke. She was going about saying that she
knew who had written the letters, so I punished her. Esther was having
sleeping tablets before she died. I told the doctor that I had thrown
them away, but I hadn’t—I kept them. Did you know that my back door key
fitted the lock at the Croft? I found it out quite by accident, because
Connie forgot her key one night when I was with her, and I said, “Oh,
well, we’ll try mine,” and it fitted. So all I had to do was to let
myself in by Connie’s back door whilst she was up at the party they
hadn’t asked me to, and there was her cocoa, left all ready on the
stove! I had crushed up my dear Esther’s tablets—there were quite a lot
of them—and I stirred them in and came away. Of course I was very
careful to see that they were quite dissolved. She shouldn’t have made
me angry—she really shouldn’t. Colonel Repton was very foolish that way
too. I punished him. I was very clever about that, you know. Sleeping
tablets wouldn’t have done for him, but I remembered the stuff Esther
got in for the wasps’ nest in the pear tree two years ago. She couldn’t
bear wasps. She said the stuff was very strong, and any that was left
must be destroyed, but I hid it away. You never know when something like
that will come in useful, do you? I put some of it in a bottle mixed up
with a little whisky, and I slipped it into my bag when I went up to the
Work Party at the Manor. That girl Florrie tattles, you know—very wrong
of her, but girls always do—so everyone in the village knew that
Colonel Repton had taken to keeping a decanter of whisky in the study.
It was clever of me to remember that, wasn’t it? Well, then of course I
had to find an opportunity of putting my stuff into the decanter. I
slipped out of the drawing-room—I was doing white work so of course my
hands had to be very clean, and I said I had a smudge on my finger. And
do you know, just as I got into the hall Colonel Repton came out of the
study and went into the cloakroom.’ She gave a little tittering laugh.
‘So I didn’t wash my hands after all! Do you know what I did instead? I
went into the study, and there was the decanter on the writing-table.
Not at all the thing—oh, not at all! I only had to take out the
stopper, pop in the stuff out of my bottle, and put the stopper back
again. The room positively reeked of smoke. There was a most dreadful
foul old pipe lying on the table. Quite disgusting—I was very clever,
wasn’t I? So now you see how foolish you would be to make me angry.’

Miss Silver rose to her feet. She had kept her eyes upon Miss Wayne in
the blue dress which Doris Pell had made, but she was not prepared for
the sudden movement which took her from the sofa to the door. There was
in it a suggestion, a highly unpleasant suggestion, of a springing
animal. Renie Wayne stood there against the panels, a little crouched, a
little as if she might spring again. Then she said, ‘I suppose you think
you are going to go away and tell a lot of lies about me! But you don’t
suppose I shall let you do that, do you?’

Miss Silver said in her quiet voice, ‘You cannot stop me.’

There was that horrid laugh again.

‘Can’t I? Well, we shall see! You know, you were very stupid to come
here this evening, because I was in the middle of some really rather
important business. You noticed the smell of gas when you came into the
house——’

Miss Silver had a moment of grave apprehension, but her voice was steady
as she said, ‘Yes?’

Miss Wayne bridled.

‘Oh, yes, _indeed_! But it wasn’t an escape from the gas stove—you were
quite wrong about that. You see, that nice big cupboard where the water
cistern is—we had to put it there when we had the plumbing
altered—well, there is a gas-bracket there. Not incandescent, you
know—just the ordinary old-fashioned burner. Well, we left it alone
because it was useful in very cold weather to keep the pipes from
freezing. Esther was always nervous about it—she would get up two or
three times in the night when we had it on. But as I said to her, “If
there was any escape, you would smell it at once, your room being next
door,” so she left it alone. And now it’s being very useful indeed,
because that’s where the gas is escaping. The tap is turned on and the
door is shut, and there isn’t any window because it is only a cupboard.’

Miss Silver used the strongest expression which she permitted herself.
She said, ‘Dear me!’ And then, ‘You had better turn it off, or there
will be an explosion.’

The smell was, in fact, in the room with them and quite strong. As she
spoke she was already at the window, drawing back the curtains and
throwing the casement wide. The night air came in with a rush.




                              THIRTY-EIGHT


Jason Leigh went up to the Manor. As he came through the hall he saw
Scilla Repton. She had put off her scarlet and green tartan and wore a
dark skirt and a sweater of greyish blue. The effect was of a light that
had been dimmed. Even her hair seemed to have lost some of its
brightness. She half passed him, and then turned back again.

‘You don’t lose much time!’ she said. ‘I suppose you think you’re going
to marry Valentine. And settle down here and let the dullness just soak
into you until you die of boredom.’

He laughed.

‘The country bores you because you don’t do any of the country things. I
shan’t have time to be bored.’

She said, ‘Oh, well—’ And then, ‘I can’t get out of it quick enough for
me.’ She went towards the stairs, got as far as the first step, and
turned to say over her shoulder, ‘Are you one of the charming people who
think that I poisoned Roger? I didn’t, you know. Foul minds the police
have, don’t they?’ She shrugged and went on up the stairs, drooping a
little.

He went along to the drawing-room, where he found Valentine. They talked
about themselves. It was too soon to make plans, but they found that
they were making them. Miss Maggie must go on living at the Manor.
Impossible to uproot her—impossible and unkind. But she could have her
own sitting-room. Once the funeral was over, Scilla wouldn’t want to
linger. Coming even closer to him and speaking very low indeed,
Valentine said, ‘Jason, they don’t really think—they can’t really——’

He said, ‘I’m afraid they do.’

She caught her breath.

‘You don’t mean—they’ll arrest her——’

‘I think they may.’

‘Jason, do _you_ think—Oh, she couldn’t—not Roger!’

He found himself saying, ‘No, somehow I don’t—I don’t quite know why.
There could be quite a case against her.’

Looking back on it afterwards, that was where a chill discomfort began
to invade his mind. It was like sitting in a room with a draught—you
didn’t feel it much at first, but you kept on feeling it more and more.
It reached the point when he got suddenly to his feet.

‘Look here, I’ve got to go. I’ll be back again.’

Valentine hadn’t known him all her life without becoming inured to his
being abrupt. She didn’t even say, ‘Where are you going?’ and was
rewarded by having the information flung at her as he made for the door.

‘I’ll just pick up Miss Silver and walk home with her.’

He ran down the drive, over the bridge from which poor Doris had fallen
to her death, and out through the open gates. When he came to the path
across the Green he didn’t run but he hurried. It was as he came through
the small rustic gate of Willow Cottage that the curtains of Miss
Wayne’s sitting-room were drawn back and the casement window thrown
wide. He stepped off the path and looked into the room. Miss Silver, who
had opened the window, now had her back to it. Renie Wayne stood in
front of the door, her face contorted with fury and her voice shrill.
The smell of gas came floating out to meet him. Miss Wayne was saying,
‘The gas is turned on in that cupboard and the door is locked. And do
you know who I’ve got in there? Do you know who is going to die in there
unless you shut that window and draw the curtains and put your hand on
the Bible and swear solemnly that you will go away tomorrow and never
breathe a word, a single word, about all the stupid, senseless lies you
have been making up! It’s no use your looking at me like that, and it’s
no use your thinking you can unlock the cupboard and get him out,
because I’ve hidden the key, and the door is very strong—you would
never get it broken down in time to save him!’

Miss Silver took an almost imperceptible step towards the door. She said
in her grave, calm voice, ‘To save whom?’

Miss Wayne tittered.

‘Who, who should it be except David? Joyce brought him over to see me,
and she left him here whilst she went to meet Penny Marsh at the
Croft—this stupid idea about taking Connie’s place in the school, when
she ought to be grateful to me for a home and doing her best to look
after me and make me comfortable! I haven’t been pleased with Joyce for
some time and I wanted to punish her, so I turned on the gas and locked
David in. But I’ll give you the key to let him out if you’ll promise not
to tell about the letters, or Connie, or anything.’

Jason came in through the window on a flying leap. Renie Wayne screamed
and went back against the door. When his hands came down upon her
shoulders she fought like a cornered rat.

Miss Silver went past them and up the narrow stair. Since Renie Wayne
had been alone in the house, what reason would she have to hide the key
of the door that she had locked? She hoped and prayed that it would be
sticking in the keyhole.

The smell of gas became overpowering as she came up on to the dark
landing and switched on the small electric bulb which lighted it. There
was a window looking towards Holly Cottage, and she set it wide, her
head swimming and her breath catching in her throat. When she had taken
a couple of long, deep breaths she turned round with the wind blowing
past her. There on the right was the cupboard door, and the key was
sticking in the lock. Up to this moment there had been no time to think.
She had set herself to come through the gas to the window and open the
cupboard door. She had not let herself think what she might find there.

She opened the door. It swung outwards.

The cupboard was a deep one, and it was full of shadows. Hardly any
light came in from the bulb at the end of the passage. There was a
water-cistern like a black rock rising up out of the dark and there was
something lying up against it, but she couldn’t see what it was. The gas
made her head swim. She felt along the wall for the bracket and turned
the tap. Then she went right in, holding her breath, and groped for the
thing that was on the floor. Her hand touched something rough, and then
the leather handles of a large old-fashioned carpet-bag. She pulled upon
them with what seemed to be the last of her strength, and with an
unwavering determination to get the bag and its contents into the
draught by the open window. The air met her and she struggled towards it
with a growing sense of thankfulness. The bag was heavy, but it was not
heavy enough to contain the body of David Rodney. She struggled with the
straps that fastened it and sank down by the sill. The wind blew round
her and her head cleared. The open mouth of the bag disclosed the body
of a large tabby cat.

Jason Leigh, taking the steps three at a time, found her trying to lift
Abimelech to meet the air.




                              THIRTY-NINE


It was with more than her usual thankfulness that Miss Silver
contemplated the familiar comfort of her own sitting-room in Montague
Mansions. Everything so cosy and so peaceful. So many blessings had been
bestowed upon her, and she felt as if she could never be sufficiently
grateful. The pieces of furniture with which she was surrounded bore
mute testimony to the kindly thought of an earlier generation. The
chairs had been the bequest of a great-aunt. The bookcase and two small
tables had come to her from her grandparents. The silver teapot and
milkjug which Hannah kept in such beautiful order had belonged to a
godmother. And if the past provided food for affectionate remembrance,
how full of kindness and of constantly increasing friendships was the
present! She had just endeavoured to put something of this into words as
she filled up Frank Abbott’s cup for the second time and handed it to
him.

‘You will, I fear, accuse me, and with justice, of misquoting Lord
Tennyson’s so often quoted words, or at any rate of wresting them from
their meaning, when I say that I cannot help being reminded of the line
about broadening down “from precedent to precedent.” ’

He helped himself to another of Hannah’s excellent sandwiches. His eyes
sparkled as he said, ‘If anyone has the right to correct the great
Alfred’s words, it is a devout admirer like yourself.’

She said soberly, ‘No, I do not think that I have the right, but I feel
that those words do express something of what is in my mind.’

He looked at her with affection.

‘You know, I never felt really happy about Tilling Green. You oughtn’t
to have gone there, and that is a fact. It seemed such a good idea to
start with, but after that second death I began to get the wind up, and
if I had had the least suspicion that Renie Wayne was the poison pen I
should have got down there somehow, if I had had to forge a medical
certificate to do it.’

‘My dear Frank!’

He laughed.

‘It is you who turn my thoughts to crime. I can’t think of anyone else
who would make me contemplate forgery. All right, ma’am, don’t bring up
the big guns—I’m still on the right side of the law. Tell me, what made
you pick on Renie as a suspect? Frankly, she never entered my head.’

Miss Silver added a little more milk to her cup. Hannah was always
inclined to put too much tea in the pot when Frank was expected. Her
thought turned back to her first impressions of Tilling Green.

‘There was an association with the similar outbreak of anonymous writing
at Little Poynton five years ago. An old aunt of the Miss Waynes was
living there at the time, and they used to go over and see her. The
postmistress was under some suspicion—or at least that is what Miss
Renie wished to convey. She also took care to tell me that this Mrs Salt
was a sister of Mrs Gurney who has the post office at Tilling Green, and
she used this fact to insinuate that it might be Mrs Gurney who was
responsible for the present crop of letters. When I asked her if there
were any grounds for such a suspicion she became a good deal agitated
and said how much she disapproved of gossip, and how much her sister had
disapproved of it.’

‘And that made you suspect her?’

She did not reply for a moment. Then she said, ‘I thought she was rather
more agitated than she need have been, and there was the connection with
Little Poynton. Then after Connie’s death and Colonel Repton’s she was
one of the four people who had to be very seriously considered—Mrs
Repton, Miss Eccles, Miss Wayne, and Mr Barton. If it had only been
Colonel Repton’s death that was in question, Mrs Repton must certainly
have been arrested, but her connection with the other two deaths was
slight, and in the case of Connie Brooke it is difficult to see what
opportunity she could have had of drugging the cocoa. Miss Eccles, Miss
Wayne, and Mr Barton all had this opportunity, but I may say at once
that I never really suspected Mr Barton. His only motive, as well as
that of Miss Eccles and Miss Renie, must have been fear of being
identified as the writer of the letters. But after my interview with
Miss Pell it was clear that the scrap of paper which would have
identified this person had been picked up in one of the houses visited
by Doris Pell on the afternoon before she was drowned. Those houses were
the Manor, Willow Cottage where she called on Miss Wayne, Holly Cottage
where she saw Miss Eccles, and the Croft where she saw and to some
extent confided in Connie Brooke who had been her childhood’s playmate
and companion. She certainly did not visit Mr Barton whose door was
never opened to a woman. I therefore dismissed him from my mind.’

‘And you did not really suspect Scilla Repton. Why?’

Again she went silent for a moment. She finished her cup of tea and set
it back upon the tray.

‘There was the question of the cocoa, and then—these things are
difficult to put into words. There are impressions so slight, so
indefinite, that one is scarcely aware of them, yet as one constantly
succeeds another a picture is built up. Mrs Repton struck me as unaware
of being in any danger. She was conscious of having offended against the
_moral_ law, and aggressively impatient of that law and of the
consequences which this breach was bringing down upon her. But she did
not seem to me to be at all aware of any possible relation between
herself and the criminal law, or of the consequences which it might have
in store. She was brazening out the exposure of her intrigue with Mr
Earle, she was angry and resentful over the change in her husband’s
will, and she was a good deal more shocked at his death than she was
willing to admit. She was in fact a vain, selfish, idle and
undisciplined young woman who found herself in uncongenial surroundings
and snatched at anything which would alleviate her boredom, but in my
opinion she would not have gone out of her way to write the anonymous
letters, and she would not have poisoned her husband. And as everyone is
now aware, she did not do so.’

‘And there was no one else at the Manor who could have filled the bill?’

‘Oh, no. Miss Maggie is a gentle person, not very strong, not very
efficient, but full of kindness, and Valentine Grey is a very charming
girl. There is a good deal of sweetness in her character, and her
principles are good.’

He laughed.

‘Well, she’ll need the sweetness. Jason is an odd fish.’

Miss Silver smiled indulgently.

‘They have known one another from childhood and are very deeply
attached.’

‘Well, so much for James Barton and the Manor. That left you with the
occupants of three more houses.’

She shook her head reprovingly.

‘Oh, no—with only two. The third house would be the Croft, and Connie
Brooke who lived alone there was herself a victim. I was left with two
possible suspects, Miss Eccles and Miss Wayne. Either of them could have
met Doris Pell and pushed her into the pond, since either could have
known that she was going up to the Manor that evening with Miss Maggie’s
blouse. Either could have drugged Connie Brooke’s cocoa, Miss Wayne by
slipping round to the Croft while Connie was at the Manor, and Miss
Eccles by seeing her the whole way home instead of saying good-night at
the gate of Holly Cottage. Either could have introduced the cyanide into
Colonel Repton’s whisky, Miss Eccles when she took him in his tea, and
Miss Wayne by slipping out of the drawing-room and making an opportunity
of entering the study. As you probably know, she prides herself on how
cleverly she managed this. Miss Maggie having handed over to me the
anonymous letter which she herself had received, I tore off a corner of
the page and produced what I hoped was a passable imitation of the scrap
of paper picked up by Doris Pell. After some experimenting with a
pointed match dipped in ink, my suspicion that the letters had been
written in this manner was confirmed. I wrote the first part of the word
Tilling upon my torn-off corner and took it with me when I went down to
Holly Cottage with a basket of fruit from Miss Maggie. I believed that
the sight of that piece of paper in my possession could hardly fail to
produce a strong reaction in the person who had seen such a piece in the
possession of Doris Pell, and who had, I was sure, committed murder in
order to suppress this damning evidence. Miss Eccles’s reaction was an
open and natural one. She is a person with an extremely active and
inquisitive mind. In spite of her state of grief she showed a very
lively curiosity as to how I had come by this piece of evidence. Miss
Wayne’s behaviour was very different. If she had not already betrayed
herself by her complaint that she considered the cat Abimelech to be
unsafe because he was in the habit of growling at her, the marked change
which came over her when she saw my piece of paper would have done so.
The shock, followed by my statement that I believed a piece of paper
like this had brought Doris Pell to her death, and that Miss Wayne had
seen it in her hand as she was now seeing it in mine, was sufficient to
break her down. She could no longer control her fear, her anger, or the
insensate pride which the criminal feels in his achievement. By the time
that the police arrived her condition was plainly one of insanity. She
must have been an anxiety to her sister for years. The elder Miss Wayne
appears to have known that it was Miss Renie who was responsible for the
affair of the anonymous letters at Little Poynton five years ago.’

Frank Abbott said, ‘There were two suicides then. Miss Wayne should have
told what she knew.’

Miss Silver had picked up her knitting. The rich red of Ethel Burkett’s
cardigan lay in her lap, the green needles moved briskly. She said,
‘Three lives would have been saved had she done so, all good, all
useful. But few people are prepared to subordinate their private
feelings to their public duty.’

Memorizing this as a vintage example of what he irreverently termed
Maudie’s Moralities, Frank brought a lighter tone to the conversation by
enquiring after the health of the cat Abimelech.

‘I don’t know how many of his nine lives he had used up already, but the
gas cupboard must have drawn pretty heavily on any that remained.’

Miss Silver smiled.

‘He is the youngest of the cats, which accounts for his having been so
foolish as to be lured through the hedge by the offer of a piece of
mackerel, a fish of which he is inordinately fond. Miss Renie is very
proud of the manner in which she trapped him by placing the mackerel in
an old carpet-bag which could be closed by pulling on a string. Those
bags have quite gone out now, but they were very capacious and the
opening was strongly reinforced by a metal bar. I have no doubt that
Abimelech fought to free himself, but with Miss Renie on the watch he
had no chance. But he is quite himself again now, and received me in a
very friendly manner when I called on Mr Barton before leaving Tilling
Green.’

‘You called on Barton? My dear ma’am, you don’t mean to say he let you
in!’

Miss Silver smiled benignly.

‘He did indeed. He made me a most excellent cup of tea and introduced
all the cats.’

‘Well, the case is over, and I suppose you have added Barton and half a
dozen others to the list of your admirers.’

She said with an accent of reproof, ‘Of my _friends_, Frank. Miss Maggie
has been most kind, and I must confess to feeling an interest in
Valentine and Mr Leigh. Joyce Rodney too. Do you know whether she has
decided to stay on in Tilling Green?’

Frank nodded.

‘I think so. If Miss Renie is certified, as she is bound to be, the
administration of the estate falls to Joyce. She could live at the
cottage and carry on the school with Penelope Marsh as they had planned.
It will really be much better if she does.’

‘You have seen her?’

‘Well, no—she called me up.’

It might have been his fancy, but he thought he detected a shade of
benevolence in her expression. She said, ‘I am afraid that I may have
hurt her feelings by my decision that it would be inadvisable for me to
call her Joyce, but now that the case is over——’

‘There will hardly be any opportunity.’

‘You think not?’

He met her slightly disappointed gaze with a laughing one.

‘It’s no good, my dear ma’am, I am a hopeless case. You will just have
to make do with Jason and Valentine!’




                           